 DS Smith Plc
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Fax +44 (0) 20 7932 5003
Email ir@dssmith.co.uk
www.dssmith.uk.com
Annual Report 
2006
www.dssmith.uk.com
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Contents
1 Highlights
2 Group Overview
4 Chairman’s Statement
5 Directors and Company Secretary
6 Chief Executive’s Review
Business Review
9 Description of the Group
11 Strategy
12 Operating Review
22 Financial Review
27 Risk Management
29 Corporate Social Responsibility Review
33 Corporate Governance
36 Remuneration Report
43 Directors’ Report and 
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
46 Auditors’ Report
47 Contents of the Financial Statements 
and Notes
48 Consolidated Financial Statements 
and Notes
92 Company Balance Sheet and Notes
98 Five Year Financial Summary
99 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006
104 Shareholder Information
105 Principal Locations
Design 
in action
Creating retail-ready packaging 
that satisfies new customer requirements
Development
in action
Although the Group’s
2005/06 results were
affected by tough
trading conditions, we
continued to strengthen
DS Smith. In this Report,
we highlight some 
of the ways in which
we are developing 
our businesses.
Innovation
in action
Developing new products and markets 
for our Plastic Packaging businesses
Supplying the fast-growing Polish market 
from our new Kutno box plant
p 15
p1 9
Advancing Spicers’ business in continental Europe
p21
Expansion
in action
p1 7
Growth 
in action
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 105
Principal Locations
Group Office
DS Smith Plc
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Divisional Offices
DS Smith Packaging 
Pilgrim House
2-6 William Street
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 1BA
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 754 380 
St Regis Paper Company 
Mill Lane
Taplow 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 0AF
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 798 111 
DS Smith Kaysersberg
BP 1
68320 Kunheim
France
Telephone +33 (0) 3 89 72 24 00
DS Smith Plastics 
Brownsover Road 
Rugby
Warwickshire CV21 1HL
Telephone +44 (0) 1788 535 329
Spicers 
Homewood
Sawston
Cambridgeshire CB2 4JG
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 834 555
Published by Black Sun Plc +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
Printed by the colourhouse
  Financial Summary
2005/06 2004/05
Revenue £1,652.7m £1,624.9m
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
1
£53.4m £73.9m
Proﬁt before tax
2
£11.0m £64.3m
Adjusted earnings per share
1
10.0p 14.4p
Earnings per share
2
1.1p 12.2p
Free cash inﬂow before dividends and net acquisitions £63.2m £55.8m
Gearing
3
43.9% 50.7%
Total dividend per share 8.4p 8.4p
1 before exceptional items of £42.4m (2004/05: £9.6m) 
2 after exceptional items of £42.4m (2004/05: £9.6m) 
3 after restatement for the adoption of IAS 39 as at 1 May 2005
Highlights
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 1
Operational Summary
• Group results affected by: 
– £23m increase in energy costs 
– Stronger competition in UK Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
– £42.4m exceptional charge, mainly arising from restructuring actions
• Strategic actions taken to improve performance: 
– Achieved £14.5m of synergy beneﬁts in UK Corrugated Packaging 
– Closed uneconomic paper capacity 
– Sold two non-core businesses 
– Grew sales of plasterboard liner strongly 
– Expanded our Corrugated Packaging operations in eastern Europe 
– Further developed Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling in continental Europe
• We increased paper and corrugated packaging prices in the second half of the year 
£471.4m 
£162.0m 
£109.9m 
£122.8m 
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt
£million
Group total: £60.4m
Year-end Capital Employed
£million 
Group total: £866.1m
£20.5m 
£20.1m 
£7.2m 
£12.6m 
UK Paper and 
Corrugated Packaging
Continental European
Corrugated Packaging
Plastic Packaging
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Group Overview
2002 2003 2005 2004 2006 
483
650
492 482
631
2002 2003 2005 2004 2006 
237
277 
255
267 266
UK Paper and 
Corrugated Packaging
In the UK, we have a leading 
position covering the whole
corrugated packaging supply 
chain from collection of waste 
paper for recycling, through
production of recycled paper, 
to manufacturing of an extensive
range of corrugated packaging.
Continental European 
Corrugated Packaging
On the continent, we have focused,
regional corrugated packaging
manufacturing businesses in France,
Italy, Poland, Turkey and the Czech
Republic; we also produce recycled
paper in France and Turkey and have
an associate paper and corrugated
packaging business in the Ukraine.
• Number 1 UK collector and merchant 
of waste paper
• Number 1 UK producer of recycled paper
• Number 1 UK manufacturer of 
corrugated packaging
• Targeted businesses with strong capabilities in:
– Heavy-duty corrugated packaging
– Laminated bulk boxes
– Litho-laminated packaging
– Pizza boxes 
£20.5m adjusted* operating proﬁt
3.2% adjusted* return on sales
4.0% adjusted* return on average capital employed
5,303 employees
+
* before exceptional items 
+
at 30.04.06
£20.1m operating proﬁt
7.3% return on sales
12.4% return on average capital employed
2,515 employees
+
+
at 30.04.06
39% 
of Group revenue
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Revenue
£million
17% 
of Group revenue
Continental European Corrugated Packaging Revenue
£million
www.dssmith-kaysersberg.com www.dssmith-packaging.com 
www.stregis.co.uk DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 3
DS Smith is an international group with 
revenue of £1.6 billion and it employs 
over 1 1 ,400 people in 16 countries.
2002 2003 2005 2004 2006 
172
202 
195
209
196
2002 2003 2005 2004 2006 
500 
519
496 499 500
Plastic 
Packaging
We are focused on two Plastic 
Packaging markets: liquid packaging
and dispensing, which we supply
from operations in Europe, the USA
and Australasia; and industrial
returnable transit packaging (RTP)
which we supply from several
locations in Europe. 
Ofﬁce Products 
Wholesaling
Spicers is the leading European 
office products wholesaler. It 
supplies its customers – ofﬁce products
dealers – with a comprehensive 
range of own-label and branded
traditional stationery, electronic 
ofﬁce supplies, furniture and 
other products. 
• Number 2 globally in liquid packaging 
and dispensing – bag-in-box systems and
injection moulded taps and dispensers
• A leading European supplier of RTP – 
reusable container and pallet systems, 
extruded sheet and bottle crates
• Number 1 European ofﬁce products wholesaler
• Number 1 in UK and Ireland
• Number 1 in France
• Number 1 in Benelux
• Developing in Germany, Spain and Italy
£7.2m adjusted* operating proﬁt
3.6% adjusted* return on sales
5.6% adjusted* return on average capital employed
1,431employees
+
* before exceptional items 
+
at 30.04.06
£12.6m operating proﬁt
2.4% return on sales
9.9% return on average capital employed
2,146 employees
+
+
at 30.04.06
1 2%
of Group revenue
Plastic Packaging Revenue
£million
32%
of Group revenue
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling Revenue
£million
www.dssmith-plastics.com www.spicers.net 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Chairman’s Statement
Results were affected by a 
harsher than expected trading
environment but we beneﬁted
from our strategic actions.
The Group’s results in 2005/06 were
significantly affected by the further rise in
energy costs. Additionally, stronger competition
in the UK office products wholesaling market
eroded sales margins in our Spicers Office
Products Wholesaling UK business. However,
the strategic actions we have taken to reduce the
Group’s reliance on commodity corrugated case
material (CCM) and to grow our business base
outside the UK have strengthened DS Smith. In
the UK, we achieved the anticipated synergy
benefits from our 2004 corrugated packaging
acquisition, grew sales of plasterboard 
liner strongly, closed two uneconomic paper
production operations and sold two non-core,
loss-making businesses. On the continent, we
expanded further both our eastern European
corrugated packaging and Spicers businesses.
Our actions to improve short-term performance
have included cost-cutting and, in the second
half of the financial year, raising paper and
corrugated packaging prices after an extended
period of price decline; these price rises did 
not benefit the 2005/06 result significantly.
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax was
£53.4 million (2004/05: £73.9 million) and
adjusted earnings per share were 10.0 pence
(2004/05: 14.4 pence). Cash flow, before
dividends and acquisitions, was £63.2 million
(2004/05: £55.8 million). 
Actions to restructure our UK operations 
and streamline the portfolio accounted for 
the majority of the exceptional charge in
2005/06 of £42.4 million (2004/05: £9.6
million); the balance included the impairment
of an investment in an independent UK
packaging business.
The Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 5.8 pence which, together with the interim
dividend of 2.6 pence, maintains the total
dividend for the year at 8.4 pence.
During the year, we further strengthened the
Group’s management with the appointments of
Huub van Beijeren as Chief Operating Officer,
Packaging and Rob Vale as Chief Executive,
Spicers. Both these senior executives bring
valuable experience and expertise to the
Group’s operations.
As we announced in March, I will be retiring
from the Board at the end of 2006, having
reached the age of 70. During my seven years
as Chairman, we have improved the operational
performance of many of our businesses while
pursuing our strategy to change the shape of
the Group. We have expanded our downstream
Packaging activities through several major
developments. In Corrugated Packaging, 
we have grown profits substantially, both
organically and through acquisition. In Plastic
Packaging, we have built an international
position in liquid packaging and dispensing.
These moves have reduced the Group’s reliance
on the cyclical Paper business where we have
also enhanced our product mix, particularly
through the development of our plasterboard
liner business. In Office Products Wholesaling, 
we have established a significant presence 
for Spicers in continental Europe. These
achievements are the result of the continued
hard work and enthusiasm of our people, 
often in the face of difficult market conditions.
I thank them for their determination and 
the improvements they have made within 
their businesses.
I am handing over the role of Chairman to
Peter Johnson with effect from 1 January 2007.
Peter has made a major contribution to the
Board’s deliberations and decision-making as a
non-Executive Director. I am confident that he
will guide the Group wisely as it continues its
development. Jean-Paul Loison will be retiring
from his role as Divisional Chief Executive 
of DS Smith Kaysersberg and stepping down
from the Board at the end of September 2006. 
I thank him, on behalf of the Board, for his
major contribution to the development of our
continental European paper and corrugated
packaging business for which he has had
responsibility for many years.
We are achieving box price increases, but 
so far they have been insufficient to recover
fully the input cost rises incurred through the
supply chain. Based on current forward energy
market prices, we anticipate the increase in 
our underlying energy costs in 2006/07 will 
be somewhat higher than the £10 million 
that we indicated at the time of our 
trading update in April. In Office Products
Wholesaling, we expect our actions to result 
in improved performance in the second half 
of the year.
Antony Hichens Chairman DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 5
Directors and Company Secretary
7 Peter Johnson
†+*#
Appointed to the Board on 8 December 1999
as a non-Executive Director. He retired as
Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc at 
the end of June 2006. He is a Member of the
Supervisory Board of Wienerberger AG and
was previously Chief Executive of The Rugby
Group PLC. He will become Chairman of the
Board on 1 January 2007. Age 58.
8 Richard Marton
†*#
Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2000 as
a non-Executive Director. He was previously
Chief Executive and then non-Executive
Director of Britax International plc. Age 65.
9 Daniel Piette
†
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 1993 
as a non-Executive Director. He is Group
Executive Vice-President and a member of the
Executive Committee of LVMH Corporation,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of LV
Capital and President of L Capital. Age 61.
10 Carolyn Cattermole
Appointed Company Secretary on 20
November 2000. She was previously
Company Secretary of Courtaulds Textiles plc
and prior to that was a senior legal adviser
with Courtaulds plc, having qualified as 
a solicitor with Norton Rose. Age 45.
† Non-Executive Director
§ Member of General Purposes Committee
+ Member of Nomination Committee
* Member of Remuneration Committee
# Member of Audit Committee
4 Jean-Paul Loison
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 
2003. He is Divisional Chief Executive 
of the DS Smith Kaysersberg division 
of the Group, with responsibility for the
Group’s continental European Paper and
Corrugated Packaging operations. He joined
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. in 1970 and
held various senior management positions
before becoming Divisional Chief Executive
in 1993. He will retire from the Board on 
30 September 2006. Age 64.
5 Bob Beeston
†+*# 
Appointed to the Board on 5 December 2000
as a non-Executive Director. He is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and is the
Senior Independent Director. He is also
Chairman of Cookson Group plc and was
previously Chief Executive of FKI plc. Age 64.
6 Christopher Bunker
†*#
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2003
as a non-Executive Director and is Chairman
of the Audit Committee. He was previously
Group Finance Director of Thames Water Plc,
Tarmac Plc and Westland Group Plc. He is a
non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc
and was a non-Executive Director of Mowlem
Plc and Baltimore Technologies plc. Age 59.
1 Antony Hichens
†+
Chairman 
Appointed to the Board on 29 June 1999 as 
a non-Executive Director, became Chairman
of the Board on 8 September 1999 and is
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. He is
a Member of the Takeover Panel, Chairman of
WaterRower (UK) Limited and is also a non-
Executive Director of Candover Investments
PLC and The JPMorgan Income and Capital
Investment Trust plc. Previously, he held the
positions of a Managing Director and Chief
Financial Officer of Consolidated Gold Fields,
Chairman of Caradon plc and Chairman of
Lasmo plc. He will retire from the Board 
on 31 December 2006. Age 69.
2 Tony Thorne
§
Group Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2001 
as Chief Operating Officer and became Group
Chief Executive on 5 December 2001. He 
was previously President of SCA Packaging’s
Corrugated Business Division and prior to 
that held senior management positions in
Shell. Age 55.
3 Gavin Morris
§
Group Finance Director 
Appointed to the Board on 5 November 2002
as Group Finance Director. He previously 
held Chief Financial Officer positions at 
Citex Group Ltd, Philips Lighting Holding
BV , Ionica Group plc, Alfred McAlpine Plc
and Norcros Plc. Age 52.
1 2 34 5
6 789 10 6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
2005/06 but the segment exited the year on 
a much improved trend. Spicers’ results were
£8.9 million down on the previous year. Its
continental operations performed well, turning
in higher profits compared with the previous
year, but the UK business saw a dramatic 
drop in profits, the result of both a substantial
reduction in sales margins, in the face of
stronger competition, and an increase in costs.
Cash performance across the Group was good,
highlighting the strong attention our managers
give to cash management.
Q – Given the challenging trading
environment, was 2005/06 a year
when the development of the
Group was put on hold? 
A – No. We have put a lot of emphasis on
raising short-term performance, principally
through a drive on cost recovery, through
increasing prices and raising productivity.
While we concentrated on accelerating our
profit improvement efforts, we continued with
our strategy to strengthen the Group. We sold
two non-core businesses: the John Dickinson
office products manufacturing business and 
the plastic film lamination operation, BSK. We
closed loss-making paper capacity that could
not be competitive in the long term and also
exited some small loss-making corrugated
packaging operations. In the UK, we captured
the expected benefits from our major
corrugated packaging acquisition in 2004 
and expanded plasterboard liner paper 
sales substantially. We grew our continental
European corrugated packaging business and
opened a new corrugating plant in Poland. We
finished the year with a much stronger order
book in Plastic Packaging, thanks to a number
of product development initiatives. In Spicers,
we grew our start-up businesses in Spain and
Italy strongly and acquired Timmermans, 
the leading office products wholesaler in the
Benelux region. These moves, which strengthen
our business base, should all contribute to 
the Group’s performance going forward.
Q – What were the key issues 
that you faced in Paper and
Corrugated Packaging and how
are you dealing with them?
A – During most of calendar year 2005, the
paper industry suffered from weak demand,
overcapacity – particularly in corrugated case
material (CCM), high waste paper prices and
In 2005/06, DS Smith faced a difficult trading
environment and results were well down on
the prior year. In an interview for the Annual
Report, Group Chief Executive, Tony Thorne,
sets out his responses to questions about the
events of the year and how the Group is
addressing the challenges it faces.
Q – In what has been a tough 
year for DS Smith, how do you 
see the trading performance of 
the different parts of the Group?
A – We report our results under four 
segment headings: UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging; Continental European Corrugated
Packaging; Plastic Packaging; and Office
Products Wholesaling – Spicers. Our two Paper
and Corrugated segments account for 56% 
of sales and 72% of the capital employed.
Adjusted operating profit in UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging, where increased energy
costs of approximately £18 million were
incurred, was down by £11.1 million on the
prior year. Although underlying performance 
in this segment has improved, we must now
recover a greater proportion of the increase in
energy costs for us to earn acceptable returns.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
produced a good result: profits were broadly
unchanged from the previous year, despite
higher energy costs, and we continued our
growth in eastern Europe. In Plastic Packaging,
our profits started to fall away some 18 months
ago. Our results were down £2.1 million in
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
We accelerated our proﬁt
improvement efforts while
continuing with our strategy 
to strengthen the Group. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 7
we have competitive energy costs and exiting
those units where energy costs cannot be
recovered in their product markets.
Q – What level of proﬁts can you
expect to achieve in your UK Paper
and Corrugated Packaging segment?
A – Our immediate aim is to rebuild the
returns from our substantial existing market
position. To achieve this improvement we will
be focusing on: Severnside Recycling; those
paper mills which we believe can be long-term
competitive at the likely future level of energy
costs; our network of conventional box plants;
and a selected number of speciality businesses.
We have set ourselves a two-year objective 
to make significant progress towards this 
goal. The degree of progress will be, in part,
dependent on good operational performance
but particularly upon us achieving an
improvement in selling prices. In addition 
to the UK improvement plan, we are also
looking to develop our corrugated packaging
operations further on the continent, where we
achieved a 12.4% return on average capital
employed even in this past difficult year.
Q – Results in Plastic Packaging
have fallen substantially. What 
are your expectations and plans
for this segment now?
A – The Group has built good market positions
in its two principal sectors of liquid packaging
and dispensing and returnable transit packaging
(RTP). Profits in both sectors were eroded
during the second half of 2004/05 and in 
the first half of 2005/06 by a combination 
of increased competition and sharply higher
polymer costs; the latter we were unable 
to pass on in full to our customers. We have
further focused the division by selling one 
of its smaller businesses, BSK, and we are
currently concentrating on rebuilding profits
in both sectors towards the levels we achieved
previously. In liquid packaging and dispensing,
we have strengthened our product development
and sales functions and are winning new
business both in Europe and the USA. In 
RTP, we are rebuilding sales volumes. We 
have a number of promising new product
developments and are extending into eastern
Europe, where we are growing sales in tandem
with our Corrugated Packaging operations in
that region. Our immediate objective is to
maintain the improving profit trend established
in the second half of 2005/06.
of Jean-Paul Loison at the end of September
2006. Jean has been a key member of the 
team which has grown the sales and profits 
of our continental corrugated packaging
business in recent years.
Q – But haven’t there been price
rises in recent months? Aren’t you
beneﬁting from these?
A – The business environment improved during
the second half of our financial year; better
growth on the continent, the impact of CCM
capacity closures and the sustained cost
pressure within the industry, led to CCM price
rises during winter 2005/06. In DS Smith, we
achieved CCM price increases of approximately
20%. The Group is broadly balanced between
the quantity of CCM produced and the quantity
of CCM used in our box converting operations;
therefore, we need these higher CCM prices to
be passed through to our external customers by
means of higher box prices if the Group is to
derive any benefit. We are achieving box price
increases, but they are coming through slower
than we had anticipated and at a level that does
not fully recover the input cost increases; this
will have to be addressed in 2006/07.
Q – What are you doing to reduce
the effect of higher energy costs 
on your business?
A – The Group’s energy costs have increased
from £64 million in 2003/04 to £95 million in
2005/06, despite our consumption in 2005/06
being 6% less than in the previous year. Based
on forward energy market prices, we now
expect the increase in our underlying energy
costs in 2006/07 to be somewhat higher than the
£10 million that we indicated at the time of our
trading update in April. We are benefiting from
earlier investments made in on-site combined
heat and power generation plants at our two
largest paper mills and in a waste-to-energy
plant at our biggest mill. It is our smaller mills
that have been most severely affected by the
steep rise in costs. Our purchasing teams in the
UK and France are hedging part of their forward
energy requirements, but the rise in energy
prices has been so substantial and sustained
that we have only been able to mitigate a small
proportion of the increase. Our business plans
are based on the assumption that energy prices
will remain at higher than historical levels.
Consequently, in our energy-intensive paper
business we are concentrating investment where
greatly increased energy costs. As a result of 
the overcapacity, selling prices of CCM and
corrugated packaging (boxes) fell significantly
over a large part of the year. This downward
pricing trend, coupled with rising input costs,
led to industry profits being hit hard. The severe
industry conditions applied right across Europe
but were worst in the UK, where demand was
particularly weak and both the energy cost rises
and the energy price spikes were higher than 
on the continent; the latter were most marked
during the 2005/06 winter months.
Our response to these external pressures 
has been to concentrate on supporting our
stronger businesses, pushing for price increases,
improving the product mix and cutting costs. In
the UK, we achieved the expected £14.5 million
of synergies following the restructuring we
initiated after our 2004 corrugated packaging
acquisition. We now have a more competitive
conventional corrugated plant network and are
concentrating on running it hard. In our UK
Paper business, our CCM raw material supply
position was helped by the previous expansion
in 2004 of our Severnside Recycling operations,
and we further enriched the product mix by
growing sales of plasterboard liner. We are
seeking to mitigate the effect of the sustained
high energy costs as far as possible through a
broad programme of actions, but the prospect 
of energy cost levels continuing to be higher
than historical levels has led us to close paper
capacity at two of our most energy-intensive
mills. On the continent, our results benefited
from our concentration on higher added-value
products. Our speciality paper mill in France
had a good year, benefiting from recent
investment, and our expanded operations in
Poland showed good sales and profit growth. 
In the Ukraine, our associate business had
another good year and we are supporting 
its expansion plans.
Our programme of actions to raise returns 
in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
operations is being led by Huub van Beijeren,
whom we appointed as Chief Operating
Officer, Packaging in May 2006. Huub has
held a number of senior management positions
in manufacturing industry, most recently as 
a Main Board Director of British Vita Plc. In
continental Europe, Jean Lienhardt, currently
Finance Director of DS Smith Kaysersberg,
will take over as Chief Executive of that
division following the planned retirement  8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
that certain types of corporate activity may
result in us having to put additional funds 
into the scheme. 
Q – How do you see the outlook
for the Group?
A – We operate in markets that are expected 
to remain relatively tough. However, I am
confident that the actions we have already
taken and the strategy that we are pursuing
will enable the Group to make satisfactory
returns and to grow.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
confident that in the coming year we can 
start to rebuild profits in the UK and continue
progress on the continent.
Q – You are currently confronted
with a large number of major
issues across your various
activities. Wouldn’t it be better 
if the Group was more focused?
A – We recognise that Packaging manufacturing
and Office Products Wholesaling are quite
different types of activity, but I believe DS
Smith is able to add value to both these core
activities. Additionally, our spread of business
types helps the consistent generation of cash to
support the dividend. We have a clear strategy
for each of our segments and are confident we
can provide the resources required for their
development. We will streamline the portfolio
further while retaining the current broad shape
of the Group.
Q – Are you going to have to carry
out more restructuring?
A – Throughout the Group we will continue 
to look at our overhead cost base to ensure
that it is appropriate for the particular markets
we supply. In UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging, there are a small number of
operations where we are assessing their ability
to compete in the longer-term, taking into
account the trends in the market for their
products and the likely future cost of energy.
We also recognise the need to lower the
structural cost base of Spicers’ UK business as
part of the process of restoring sales margins.
Q – What is your dividend policy?
A – The Board recognises the importance of
the dividend to our investors. The Company
has an unblemished record of maintaining or
increasing its dividend and the Executive is
mindful of the dividend when setting its plans.
Q – How signiﬁcant is the issue 
of your pension scheme deﬁcit?
A – The pension scheme deficit, as at 
30 April 2006, was £35 million after tax 
and we believe we can manage this obligation
within the Group as a whole. We have worked
in conjunction with the Scheme Trustee to
minimise the future obligations by lowering
the costs of the scheme and by increasing
contributions to the scheme by both the
members and the Group. We are conscious
Q – Why have Spicers’ results
deteriorated so greatly and why
did this only become apparent 
late in the year?
A – The deterioration in Spicers’ result 
was all in the UK. We made good progress 
on the continent: we moved into the Benelux
region through acquisition and our existing
businesses in France, Germany, Spain and
Italy performed in line with our plans. Profits
at Spicers UK were markedly down as a result
of both a severe reduction in sales margin, 
in the face of tough competition, and higher
costs. The fall in margin was the result of a
number of factors. Selling prices were under
pressure from general price deflation in the
office products market. In addition, the
competitive environment in the wholesaling
sector has intensified, which has resulted 
in lower prices and led to higher levels of
retrospective rebates being paid to customers.
Higher costs were incurred in overcoming
service shortcomings at a limited number of
our UK distribution centres. Some of these
factors were apparent in the first half of the
year but the extent of the increased customer
rebates did not become fully apparent until
close to the year-end; the higher costs were
very much weighted towards the final months
of our financial year. We are giving significant
attention to getting the Spicers UK business
back to healthy profitability. Despite the poor
UK performance and the fact that two of the
continental businesses are still in a development
phase, Spicers as a whole generated a good
cash flow and its return on capital employed
exceeded the Group’s cost of capital. 
Q – What are you doing to rebuild
proﬁts at Spicers UK and what 
are your proﬁt expectations for
Spicers now?
A – The 2005/06 result represents a major set-
back and in the coming year we have to reverse
the trend. In February 2006, we appointed Rob
Vale as Chief Executive, Spicers, following the
retirement of his predecessor. Rob, who has
extensive experience in office products, has
carried out a comprehensive review of the
Spicers business. In the UK, he has made a
number of management changes, strengthened
the sales and operations functions, tightened 
the financial disciplines and accelerated the
programme to reduce the cost base. We are DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 9
Business Review
Description of the Group
the principal raw material for producing
recycled paper; it also buys and sells waste
paper and provides facilities management
services to administer customers’ general
recycling and waste disposal needs. The
largest single source of waste paper accounts
for less than 14% of the total amount
collected. Severnside supplies 1.1 million
tonnes of waste paper to St Regis, meeting
98% of its waste paper requirements, and 
sells 0.6 million tonnes on the open market.
St Regis’ five paper mills produce
approximately 900,000 tonnes of 100% recycled
paper. St Regis is the leading UK producer of
CCM, which accounts for approximately 70%
of the paper it produces, the remainder being
plasterboard liner and other speciality paper
grades. St Regis is a leading European producer
of plasterboard liner, which accounts for over
15% of its total production. The Group’s
Corrugated Packaging operations account for
over 60%, 400,000 tonnes, of St Regis’ CCM
sales. St Regis’ external sales are made to over
350 customers; no single external customer
accounts for more than 6% of the Group’s total
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion
square metres (600,000 tonnes) per annum 
of corrugated packaging at 33 factories 
located throughout the UK. It is the leading
supplier of corrugated packaging to the UK
market with a market share of around 24%.
Approximately 65% of sales go into the 
fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG),
predominantly food and beverage, sector, 
divisions, St Regis Paper Company (which
incorporates Severnside Recycling) and 
DS Smith Packaging. 
Severnside Recycling is the leading UK
collector and merchant of waste paper. It
handles, through its 19 UK collection depots,
1.7 million tonnes per annum of waste paper,
DS Smith is an international Group with
revenue in 2005/06 of £1,653 million and it
employs over 11,400 people in 16 countries.
The Group is managed through a decentralised
structure covering its four segments:
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 
This segment is comprised of three activities:
Severnside Recycling, which collects waste
paper for recycling; St Regis Paper Company,
which processes the waste paper to produce
recycled paper, 75% of which is corrugated
case material (CCM) used in the manufacture
of corrugated packaging; and DS Smith
Packaging, which converts CCM into
corrugated board and boxes. The three
activities of the corrugated packaging supply
chain are heavily inter-dependent. DS Smith
manages its UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging operations through two separate
The Group is managed through 
a decentralised structure covering
its four segments.
DS Smith Packaging supplies award-winning
packaging to leading, fast-moving consumer
goods customers.
Continental European
Corrugated Packaging
Plastic Packaging
Ofﬁce Products 
Wholesaling
UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging
Packaging Kayserberg Plastics 
DS Smith Structure
  10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Description of the Group
continued
In liquid packaging and dispensing, it is
ranked as number two globally in bag-in-box
packaging systems and injection moulded 
taps and dispensers, which are supplied
worldwide to the soft drinks, wine, food 
and other industry sectors from nine locations
in the UK, Germany, the USA, Australia and
New Zealand. 
The Group is a leading European supplier 
of RTP. Its extensive product range includes
reusable containers, boxes and pallet systems,
injection moulded crates, and semi-finished
extruded sheet. These products are supplied 
to the automotive, beverage and other markets
from 13 locations in the UK, France, Belgium,
Spain, Poland and the Dominican Republic. 
Additionally, the segment contains two small
speciality businesses: Packaging Management,
which provides logistics services particularly
for pallet and plastic layer pad pools; and 
a development business, StePac, which
specialises in modified atmosphere packaging
for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and
vegetables in transit.
The division purchases a wide range of
polymers and plastic films, principally
polypropylene, high density polyethylene and
polycarbonate; the largest polymer supplier
accounts for approximately 16% of raw
material costs. This segment has a widely
spread customer base and no single customer
accounts for more than 6% of DS Smith
Plastics’ total revenue. 
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 
Spicers is the leading European wholesaler 
of office products; it is ranked as the number
one wholesaler in each of the UK, Ireland,
France and the Benelux region, and it is
building its position in continental Europe
with development businesses in Germany,
with the remainder being principally for the
consumer durables and industrial sectors. DS
Smith Packaging supplies many of the leading
FMCG companies; no individual customer
accounts for more than 3% of the total UK
Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue. 
Continental European 
Corrugated Packaging 
In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg
produces 0.6 billion square metres (365,000
tonnes) per annum of corrugated packaging 
at 12 factories located in France, Italy, Poland, 
the Czech Republic and Turkey. The bulk of 
its CCM requirements are sourced from third
parties. It has estimated market shares of 6% 
in France, 3% in Italy, 9% in Poland, and 6% 
in Turkey. Although its market positions in
France and Italy have been relatively stable 
over the last two years, the business has been
growing strongly in eastern Europe. DS Smith
Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million tonnes of
recycled paper (principally solid board for use in
the manufacture of detergent boxes) at two mills
in France and one mill in Turkey. DS Smith also
owns 39% of the leading paper and corrugated
packaging business in the Ukraine; the results 
of this business are reported under associates. 
The Group’s continental corrugated packaging
operations are particularly strong in heavy duty
and litho-laminated packaging. Approximately
35% of sales are to the FMCG sector and the
remainder is to consumer durables, industrial
and other sectors. This segment has a large and
diverse range of customers, none of which
account for more than 6% of Continental
European Corrugated Packaging revenue.
Plastic Packaging 
DS Smith Plastics is a leading worldwide
supplier of liquid packaging and dispensing
systems and holds a major European position 
in industrial returnable transit packaging (RTP).
DS Smith Plastics’ product range includes 
the latest generation of injection moulded
beverage crates.
DS Smith Kaysersberg’s customers include many
top European branded companies.
Spain and Italy. Its network of distribution
centres comprises: UK – 10; Ireland – 1;
France – 6; Belgium – 1; Germany – 2; 
Spain – 1; Italy – 1.
Spicers provides a wholesaling service to its
customer base of office products dealers, who
principally supply smaller and medium-sized
offices. It supplies approximately 12,000
dealers throughout Europe and no single
dealer customer accounts for more than 2% of
Spicers’ total revenue. Spicers’ product range
of up to 18,000 product lines comprises its
own 5-Star brand and other branded products
of traditional stationery items, electronic office
supplies (EOS), office furniture, janitorial
supplies and office catering and vending
provisions. Its range is communicated to its
dealers and the offices they supply through
printed catalogues and electronic systems;
orders are now principally submitted to
Spicers on-line or by other electronic means.
Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day
or an overnight, next-day delivery service; it
also provides the dealers with marketing and
promotional support. The business is highly
transactions-intensive with approximately
700,000 line items being processed weekly.
The maintenance of reliable and efficient
systems that are capable of handling the high
volume of customer orders received daily,
either by telephone or on-line, is a key feature
of the business.
Spicers communicates its extensive product 
range through catalogues and electronic systems. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 11
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
Our goal in Office Products Wholesaling is to
establish the Spicers business model profitably
across the major markets of western Europe.
An immediate priority is to raise profits in 
the important UK business. This will include
restructuring the cost base. On the continent
we will maintain the competitiveness of our
major established positions in France and 
the Benelux region and continue to drive 
up the results of our developing businesses 
in Germany, Spain and Italy.
Investment
Our capital expenditure programme will
maintain investment in our key assets and
support development of the strategy. It 
will be targeted at three main areas: cost
reduction; development of products or 
markets which offer good profit growth
opportunities; and anticipation of health 
and safety or environmental requirements. 
We will continue to seek bolt-on acquisition
opportunities, particularly in growth markets. 
Our performance against these financial
objectives is described in the Financial 
Review on pages 22 to 26.
Segment Strategies
The strategies for each of our four segments are:
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 
Our goal is to improve rapidly the returns 
from our substantial existing market position.
The priorities for achieving this are: recovery
of the input cost rises; structural cost reduction;
productivity improvement; and targeting
growth sectors of the market. We will focus
our investment on: Severnside Recycling; those
paper mills which we believe can be long-term
competitive at the likely future level of energy
costs; our network of conventional box plants;
and a selected number of speciality businesses.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging 
Our objective is to build on our current good
returns and growth rates. We will continue 
our targeted approach, concentrating on 
selected markets and higher added-value 
product segments. We will maintain the
competitiveness of our operations in France
and Italy while seeking further development
opportunities in higher-growth markets.
Plastic Packaging 
Our aim is to improve significantly the
profitability of our two principal businesses,
particularly through new product development
and increased productivity. In liquid packaging
and dispensing, we will build on our
established international position through
developing new outlets. In industrial RTP, 
we will continue to focus on the European
market, seeking particularly to extend our
business in central and eastern Europe. 
Business Review
Strategy
Our objective is to generate value for
shareholders through operational improvement
and the development of an enhanced business
mix; reducing the Group’s reliance on
commodity CCM and expanding outside the
UK. In the near-term, strong emphasis will 
be given to raising returns in both our UK
Paper and Corrugated Packaging business 
and Spicers UK.
The markets in which we operate are generally
mature and highly competitive, so it is essential
for our profitability that we both continuously
improve the performance of our operations and
develop our revenues by investment in new
products and markets with inherent growth. 
We recognise that Packaging manufacturing and
Office Products Wholesaling are quite different
types of activity but we believe that DS Smith is
able to add value to both of these core activities
and that the Group’s present composition will
provide good returns and cash flow to investors.
Financial Objectives
We have four key financial objectives:
• to achieve a return on average capital
employed over the business cycle in excess of
the Group’s weighted average cost of capital,
which we estimate to be circa 9% (before tax);
• to seek market opportunities that offer higher
rates of growth; 
• to generate sufficient free cash flow to
provide funds for development and to 
service our dividend; and
• to maintain a strong but efficient balance
sheet that optimises returns to shareholders
while giving financial resilience and allowing
the Group to pursue bolt-on acquisitions.
It is essential to our proﬁtability
that we both improve the
performance of our operations 
and develop our revenues. 12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Operating Review
Paper and Corrugated Packaging Market Overview
Whereas boxes are generally sold locally,
CCM is sold on a pan-European basis and
pricing is therefore affected by European
supply and demand factors. The total demand
for CCM in western Europe is circa 20 million
tonnes, with an additional approximately 
3 million tonnes of demand in eastern Europe
(not including Russia). The market for CCM
in Europe is dependent upon European
demand for corrugated packaging as imports
and exports of unfilled boxes are negligible.
Demand for CCM in Europe as a whole has
grown at approximately 1.5% per annum over
the last five years, while the UK market, of
circa 2 million tonnes, has been static or
declining in recent years and is now some 3%
smaller than five years ago. Approximately
75% of the market is waste-based or recycled
CCM, with the balance principally comprising
kraftliner, made from virgin wood pulp.
During the first half of 2005/06, low growth 
in corrugated packaging demand and excess
CCM manufacturing capacity resulted in 
CCM prices declining. In early 2005, four 
new continental European CCM machines,
delivery of products from internet purchases,
and retail-ready packaging which can be used
as both transit and display packaging. Supply
of corrugated board and boxes is generally
relatively local to the point of production, with
a typical operational radius of approximately
150 miles, owing to moderately high transport
costs for what is a low-density product and the
service requirements of customers.
There has been downward pressure on selling
prices in recent years. Pricing and margins in
corrugated packaging are strongly influenced
by pricing developments on corrugated 
case materials (CCM), the paper used as 
the principal component in manufacturing
corrugated packaging and typically accounting
for around 50% of the cost of a box. CCM
prices have been falling as a result of
overcapacity, although in late 2005 this 
began to reverse as demand improved and
CCM capacity was closed. The overall fall in 
CCM prices, compounded by the cost-down
requirements of our customers, many of which
supply retailers, has put significant pressure 
on prices. 
The European market for corrugated
packaging is estimated to be approximately
€16 billion, equivalent to circa 21 million
tonnes or 39 billion square metres
1
, of 
which the UK market is estimated to be
approximately 10%. Demand for corrugated
packaging is principally influenced by overall
economic activity and manufacturing output. 
In the calendar year 2005, the European
market by weight for corrugated board grew
by 0.9%
2
. In western Europe the market grew
by 0.3% while growth in eastern and central
Europe continued to be much stronger at
5.8%. In DS Smith’s principal markets,
demand by weight fell by 1.9% in the UK,
while in France and Italy it was flat (0.3% and
nil growth, respectively), and in Poland and
Turkey it grew strongly (by 9.3% and 7.6%,
respectively). The continuing trend towards
the use of more lighter-weight packaging, for
cost and environmental reasons, meant that
demand by area declined by 1.5% in the UK
while it rose by 1.3% in Europe as a whole.
The European market strengthened in the
course of calendar year 2005 and has remained
relatively buoyant in the early months of 2006,
especially in Germany.
Within the total European market, the growth
rates of different segments vary considerably.
Corrugated packaging usage in some industrial
manufacturing sectors of western Europe has
tended to decline as a result of the transfer of
manufacturing to lower cost countries, while
usage for fast-moving consumer goods, which
account for approximately two-thirds of the
corrugated market, has been relatively strong
due to the resilience of this economic sector.
Other current growth segments are the home
After a period of major price
erosion, both CCM and box 
prices increased in the second 
half of 2005/06.
Global Regional (European) Local (typically < 150 miles)
Geographic  
market 
Product
features 
% of the cost
of a box
Principally OCC
(old corrugated cases) 
c.10% c.50% 
Recycled paper = c.75% 
Virgin kraft paper = c.25% 
c.65% for fast-moving  
consumer goods 
Paper 
 
(corrugated case
material – CCM)
Corrugated 
packaging 
(boxes) 
Waste
paper 
The Corrugated Packaging Supply Chain
1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board
Manufacturers/DS Smith estimates
2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers
N.B. Indicative information; these factors vary for speciﬁc products or sectors of the market DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 13
of Packaging Recovery Notes (PRNs), 
which are issued as evidence that packaging
has been reprocessed, in compliance with 
the UK Packaging Waste Regulations. As 
a reprocessor of waste paper, we receive
revenue from the sale of PRNs to packaging
waste compliance schemes and companies 
in the packaging supply chain that have an
obligation under the Regulations to ensure 
that sufficient quantities of packaging are
being recycled. We can set this PRN revenue
against the cost of purchasing waste paper 
and investment in our waste collection and
recycling operations. Paper PRNs were in
relatively plentiful supply during 2005, mainly
due to the sharply increased quantities of
waste packaging being exported for recycling.
Consequently, the price of paper PRNs
remained relatively low during 2005 and 
has softened further in calendar year 2006 
to date.
with an aggregate capacity of approximately
1.3 million tonnes were commissioned. This
new capacity, which was concentrated on
lighter-weight papers, resulted in a severe
destabilisation of selling prices throughout 
the European market. Since the autumn of
2005, the pace of removal of older CCM
capacity from the market has increased with
announcements of capacity closures from most
of the larger producers as well as some from
smaller independent companies. It is estimated
that approximately 2.3 million tonnes of 
older capacity has been closed, or has been
announced for closure, since the start of 2004.
One further CCM machine was commissioned
in early 2006, but no other significant capacity
additions are expected in western Europe
before the end of 2007.
The squeeze on CCM producers’ margins from
depressed selling prices was exacerbated during
2005 by the sharp increases in energy costs.
Against a background of slightly stronger
growth in demand for CCM across Europe and
the removal of some capacity, CCM producers
increased prices by approximately 20%
between November 2005 and March 2006 to
recover some of the margin decline. In response
to this, box producers also increased prices 
in early 2006. To date, anecdotal evidence
suggests that the rise in box prices across 
the industry is well short of that required to
recover the paper and energy cost increases. 
The pressure on CCM margins has been
increased by the relatively high cost of waste
paper, the principal raw material for recycled
CCM. Waste paper is a globally traded
commodity; its continuing high level of
demand from Asia is contributing to a modest
continuing increase and short-term spikes in
its price in Europe. In the UK, the net cost of
our raw material is also affected by the price
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
97.6
99.5 98.5
101.9
97.6
103.3
97.5
105.6 106.5
95.6
European and UK Corrugated Packaging Market Indices
Europe (including UK)
UK
Source: European Federation of
Corrugated Board Manufacturers
Tonnes index 2000 =100
DS Smith – waste paper collection
to corrugated boxes
1 Severnside Recycling’s principal objective is 
to provide a secure supply of waste paper 
for our UK paper mills.
2 St Regis Paper Company is the leading 
UK manufacturer of CCM; it is also a 
major producer of plasterboard liner.
3 DS Smith Polska produces boxes, 
principally for customers that are supplying
the fast-growing local Polish market.
4 DS Smith Packaging’s Speciality sector
designs and manufactures corrugated 
display ﬁxtures.
2
3 4
1 14 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2006 2005
Revenue – £m £649.6m £631.2m
Adjusted operating proﬁt* – £m £20.5m £31.6m
Adjusted EBITDA * – £m £55.1m £67.3m
Adjusted return on sales* – % 3.2% 5.0%
Adjusted EBITDA margin* – % 8.5% 10.7%
Adjusted return on average capital employed* – % 4.0% 6.0%
* before exceptional items of £28.9 million (2004/05: £4.9 million)
Business Review 
Operating Review
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
factors by increased production and a better
sales mix at the division’s largest mill at
Kemsley. This improvement came from our
drive to increase sales of plasterboard liner
which resulted in the sales volume of this
product increasing to a run-rate of
approximately 160,000 tonnes per annum in
April 2006 from approximately 95,000 tonnes
per annum in April 2005. The capital
expenditure programme to upgrade existing
machines at the Kemsley and Wansbrough
mills, in order to satisfy the plasterboard liner
supply requirements of BPB, is proceeding as
planned. This investment will also enhance 
the quality of other products produced 
at these mills.
The Kemsley mill benefited from its
advantageous energy supply position as 
a result of previous investment in on-site
combined heat and power and waste-to-energy
plants. The five smaller mills experienced 
a further sharp increase in energy costs. 
This particularly affected results at the
Sudbrook, Wansbrough and Taplow mills, 
all of which were in loss. Hollins mill, which
specialises in white top testliner, raised its
output and enhanced the quality of one of 
its key products. Higher Kings mill continued
to focus on higher margin, speciality, non-
packaging papers. Sudbrook mill, which was
St Regis’ most energy-intensive production
unit, was closed in March 2006 to staunch
losses, as part of the Group’s strategy to
concentrate on mills with a long-term future.
The closure of the smaller of the two paper
machines at Wansbrough mill is expected 
early in the 2006/07 financial year. These
capacity closures contributed £28.9 million 
to the overall exceptional charge of 
£42.4 million in 2005/06. Following these
closures, Kemsley mill now accounts for 
over 60% of the division’s paper production; 
it ranks in the upper quartile of European 
mills in terms of cost-competitiveness.
Sales and profits at our UK waste collection
business, Severnside Recycling, advanced,
principally as a result of the enlargement of 
its network of collection depots during the
previous financial year. The price of waste
paper remained high relative to the selling
price of recycled paper with continued strong
export demand. In addition to meeting the
requirements of St Regis’ mills for waste
paper, Severnside increased its exports of
2005/06 Performance
Our actions over the last two years to 
enlarge our Corrugated Packaging business
and to enrich our product mix in Paper have
strengthened the UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging segment. However, the benefits 
of these actions were more than offset by
lower selling prices during much of the 
year and a circa £18 million increase in 
energy costs. 
Revenue increased by 2.9% to £649.6 
million as a result of increased sales of 
higher added-value products from Kemsley,
our principal paper mill, and growth in
Severnside Recycling’s external sales. Despite
the achievement of the expected synergies 
of £14.5 million (2004/05: £6.1 million),
resulting from the integration benefits of 
our 2004 corrugated packaging acquisition,
adjusted operating profit was lower at 
£20.5 million (2004/05: £31.6 million).
DS Smith Packaging, our UK Corrugated
Packaging business, was affected by the 
weak demand for boxes in the UK and some
disruption to its operations as a result of the
integration process which required the 
closure of two large facilities and the
subsequent transfer of production to other
plants to reduce costs. In the second half 
of the financial year, margins were squeezed
by increased CCM costs. At the conventional
plants, sales were lower and margins were
affected by substantial price pressure. The
speciality sector, which concentrates on 
higher added-value products, performed 
well, benefiting particularly from our
businesses’ design and printing capabilities.
The Tri-Wall heavy-duty business, which sells
predominantly to the industrial manufacturing
sector of the economy, had a difficult year.
Market conditions for our sheet feeding
operations, which supply corrugated sheet
board, were especially competitive due to
industry over-supply. 
At our UK paper business, St Regis, profits
remained depressed due to a combination of 
a further squeeze on margins from substantial
increases in energy costs and depressed selling
prices for our main product, CCM, the latter
during the first half of the financial year. We
partly mitigated the impact of these external
The beneﬁts of our actions to
strengthen the segment were 
more than offset by price pressure
and increased energy costs.
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 15
box prices in order to benefit the overall 
result. As the box price increase took place
late in our financial year, these box price rises
had only a small effect on the 2005/06 profits.
The box price increases should benefit results
in 2006/07 but the net effect they have on
profits across the UK businesses will depend
heavily on how input costs develop. We
currently expect to incur a further increase 
in energy and fuel costs in our ongoing
operations in this segment in 2006/07. 
In addition, the net cost of waste paper is
continuing to increase as a result of rising
demand from Asia and the falling value 
of PRNs. 
waste paper and grew further its facilities
management business where it manages
customers’ entire waste recycling and 
disposal needs. 
We raised prices of the main grades of CCM
by approximately 20% during the second half
of the financial year in order to recover some
of the previous margin erosion. Towards the
end of the financial year, we increased box
prices, which had been falling consistently
until that point. Given that the Group’s CCM
production and usage are broadly in balance
overall, higher CCM prices need to be passed
on to our external customers through higher 
1 Computer-aided design enables
products to be developed faster
and proofed on screen by 
the customer.
2 Retail-ready packaging must be
rapidly convertible from a transit
to a display pack, reducing store
handling and shelf ﬁlling time.
3 Our designers work closely with
customers to ‘think back from 
the shelf’ and develop more
sophisticated boxes which work
well in the retail environment.
Design 
in action
DS SMITH PACKAGING, ELY, UK
DS Smith Packaging has seized the
opportunity of the growth in demand for
retail-ready packaging. Our Impact Centre
simulates the layout and display features
of a retail store. It provides an excellent
setting in which we can demonstrate 
our capabilities to design and produce
packaging that succeeds in-store as well
as in transit.
2
3
1
ADDING VALUE FOR OUR
CUSTOMERS France  
Poland  
Czech Republic 
Ukraine*  
Turkey  
Italy 
16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Operating Review
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
in France. Despite an increase in energy 
costs of circa £3 million and sharply 
increased CCM costs during the second 
half of the financial year, adjusted operating
profit was broadly flat at £20.1 million
(2004/05: £20.2 million).
Sales and profits at the French paper mills
grew following investment at the main
Kaysersberg mill in 2005 which increased
production capacity and reduced costs thereby
raising productivity. This mill, which has
reduced its emissions of carbon dioxide
through investment in a combined heat and
power plant, also benefited from the sale of
excess carbon credits under the EU Emissions
Trading Scheme. The French Corrugated
Packaging operations increased their market
share but were affected by the pressure on 
box prices during much of the financial year.
Despite highly competitive trading conditions
in its local market, our Italian business
performed satisfactorily and maintained 
its strong positions in the pizza box and
ceramics market sectors.
Our Polish business grew both its sales and
profits strongly. Its new green-field factory 
2005/06 Performance
Despite the tough trading conditions, DS Smith
Kaysersberg performed well thanks to our
targeted market positions, good management 
of product mix and growth in eastern Europe.
Revenue increased by 4.1% to £276.6 million,
principally as a result of strong growth in
Poland and increased sales of solid board 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2006 2005
Revenue – £m £276.6m £265.7m
Operating proﬁt – £m £20.1m £20.2m
EBITDA – £m £33.6m £33.6m
Return on sales – % 7.3% 7.6%
EBITDA margin – % 12.1% 12.6%
Return on average capital employed – % 12.4% 13.7%
DS Smith Kaysersberg 
performed well despite 
the tough trading conditions.
at Kutno, west of Warsaw, opened in
November 2005 and complements the 
existing plant at Kielce. This Polish business
primarily supplies the rapidly expanding, 
fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector
in Poland. Profits advanced well at our small
converting business in the Czech Republic. 
In Turkey, where our business broke through
into profit in 2004/05, we continued to focus
on growing sales in higher margin industrial
market sectors. OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and
Packaging Mill in the Ukraine, in which we
hold a 39% stake and the results of which 
are reported under associates, continued to
perform well. 
We implemented box price increases in all
continental markets in our efforts to pass 
on the higher CCM costs but, as in the UK,
this had little effect on results in 2005/06. In
2006/07, we anticipate being able to recover 
a substantial proportion of the increased 
CCM and energy costs.
DS Smith Kaysersberg’s businesses concentrate
in particular on higher value-added sectors of 
the market.
The Group’s continental corrugated packaging
businesses produce heavy-duty boxes and
corrugated pallets for industrial customers.
Continental European Corrugated
Packaging Locations
NB Indicative relative sizes of operations – not drawn to scale
* Associate business DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 17
1 DS Smith Polska’s new €20 million factory, 
located on a green-ﬁeld site, opened on time 
in November 2005.
2 Paper reels are loaded onto the corrugator to
produce corrugated board.
3 The corrugator converts paper into corrugated board.
4 Prior to commissioning, employees were trained 
at other Group plants in Poland and Italy.
5 Boxes are produced to the high standards of quality
and safety required by major fast-moving consumer
goods customers.
Our successful Polish plant at Kielce, south 
of Warsaw, had reached full capacity. 
We used the expertise of our continental
European team to plan, build and open the
new 28,000 square metres factory at Kutno,
west of Warsaw. The factory is one of the
most advanced box plants in Europe and
was built and ﬁtted out without any lost 
time accidents occurring on the site.
Growth 
inaction
2
BUILDING ON OUR
EXPERTISE
DS SMITH POLSKA, KUTNO, POLAND
3
1
4
5 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2006 2005
Revenue – £m £202.4m £195.9m
Adjusted operating proﬁt* – £m £7.2m £9.3m
Adjusted EBITDA * – £m £19.3m £20.6m
Adjusted return on sales* – % 3.6% 4.7%
Adjusted EBITDA margin* – % 9.5% 10.5%
Adjusted return on average capital employed* – % 5.6% 6.6%
* before exceptional items of £2.6 million (2004/05: £5.8 million)
18 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review
Operating Review
Plastic Packaging
adjusted operating profit was £2.0 million 
(H1 2004/05: £6.2 million) while that in the
second half improved to £5.2 million (H2
2004/05: £3.1 million). The full year result
was adversely affected by polymer and energy
costs combined being circa £7 million higher
during 2005/06 than in the previous financial
year. We endeavoured to pass on these higher
costs by raising our selling prices but in 
some cases this led to a loss of business and
where we did achieve increases these were
insufficient to restore margins to acceptable
levels. The cumulative effect of this input cost
under-recovery was approximately £3 million
during 2005/06, largely concentrated in our
RTP business.
In liquid packaging and dispensing, sales were
flat and profits were significantly lower. Our
US operations performed satisfactorily on the
back of good product development while sales
of dispensing products remained strong. In
contrast, we faced increased competition in
Europe, particularly in higher margin products,
although in the second half of the financial
year results started to benefit from earlier
restructuring action, our increased emphasis
on new product development and growth in
higher margin sectors.
Sales of RTP for 2005/06 as a whole were
significantly higher than in the previous year
despite being slow during the first half of the
year. Margins were squeezed by the under-
recovery of the higher polymer prices and, in
the extruded sheet sector, by industry capacity
increases at a time of weaker demand. Results
improved in the second half of the financial
year with the achievement of some price
increases and a sharp revival in the volume 
of crate sales. The extruded product businesses
continued to experience difficult trading but
benefited, in the second half of the year, from
of multi-trip, reusable packaging on cost 
and environmental grounds. However, during
2005/06 it is believed that there was relatively
little growth in the European RTP market,
principally as a result of the higher polymer
costs. RTP products are used most within 
the retail, automotive, electronics and
beverage sectors. Demand is heavily
influenced by industry sector activity levels
and, as RTP is often a capital purchase driven
by particular projects, annual demand can 
be of an uneven nature.
2005/06 Performance
Results at DS Smith Plastics were affected 
by the high level of polymer prices and a 
more competitive trading environment in 
both of our major sectors: liquid packaging
and dispensing; and RTP. Our actions 
to raise prices, strengthen our sales and
product development capability and increase
productivity resulted in an improving profit
trend in the second half of the financial year.
Revenue increased by 3.3% to £202.4 million
but adjusted operating profit was lower at 
£7.2 million (2004/05: £9.3 million). First half
Market Overview
The global market for liquid packaging 
and dispensing products is estimated to be
approximately $750 million. The principal
uses of bag-in-box packaging are for wine,
agricultural produce (such as fruit juice and
dairy products) and food service applications
such as carbonated soft drink concentrate (for
the hotel and restaurant industries). There is
modest volume growth in North America and
Europe but value growth is lower due to price
competition. The market in Asia-Pacific is at
an early stage of development and growing
rapidly. The market for dispensing products
(principally taps), other than for bag-in-box
systems, is fragmented across a wide range 
of uses. DS Smith is a major supplier to the
wine and liquid detergent sector; the latter has
grown strongly in recent years in the USA
and is now starting to develop in Europe. 
The European market for returnable transit
packaging (RTP), which is estimated to be
approximately €1.4 billion, is fragmented into
many sub-sectors. The overall market has
experienced steady growth in recent years, 
due to the increased requirement for the use 
Our actions resulted in 
an improving proﬁt trend 
at DS Smith Plastics in the 
second half of the year.
Liquid packaging
and dispensing 
RTP 
Other  
 
£26.6m
£88.5m 
£87.3m 
Plastic Packaging Revenue by Sector
Total: £202.4m
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 19
action taken to strengthen their sales functions.
We are expanding our capability to supply 
in eastern Europe from the Group’s plant in
the Czech Republic, in response to increased
sourcing of RTP products in that region by
some customers.
The aggregate result of the smaller speciality
businesses improved significantly. The
packaging management business moved 
from break-even into profit following good
sales growth, while sales at StePac, which
specialises in modified atmosphere packaging,
grew strongly. The small, non-core plastic
coating and laminating business, BSK, was
sold in December 2005, resulting in a loss 
on sale of £2.6 million.
Looking forward, a key issue in Plastic
Packaging is the outlook for polymer prices
and the extent to which we can recover the
higher costs and further rebuild margins. 
We expect the improving trend within this
segment to continue in 2006/07.
Innovation
in action
We are developing our Plastic Packaging
business through new product development
and by moving into new geographic
markets. In liquid packaging and
dispensing, our bags and taps incorporate
innovative technology, which is opening 
up new uses for bag-in-box packaging. In
RTP, we combine technical advances with
custom-made design to meet individual
customer’s needs.
DEVELOPING
PRODUCTS & MARKETS
1 A new injection moulded
pallet for transporting and
storing beer kegs
incorporates many strength,
hygiene and safety features.
2 Returnable, stackable 
boxes designed for speciﬁc
automotive components give
good protection against
damage in transit.
3 Taps for dispensing liquid
detergent, which we have
sold in high volume in the
USA, are now being sold
into Australia and Europe.
4 An award-winning 3-litre
bag-in-box pack uses
Rapak’s Intasept ®
technology to extend 
the shelf-life of milk.
5 Taps and other dispensing
equipment must perform to
high standards; they undergo
extensive quality control.
1
2 3
5
4
DS SMITH PLASTICS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2006 2005
Revenue – £m £518.7m £499.7m
Operating proﬁt – £m £12.6m £21.5m
EBITDA – £m £19.2m £28.5m
Return on sales – % 2.4% 4.3%
EBITDA margin – % 3.7% 5.7%
Return on average capital employed – % 9.9% 18.1%
20 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review
Operating Review
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
Wholesalers account for approximately 
10% of the total market. The direct
wholesaling competition that Spicers faces
varies by country. In the UK there is one 
other significant national wholesaler of 
office products. In most continental markets,
competition from other national wholesalers 
is limited, but there are significant numbers of
regional and local wholesalers. The European
scale of Spicers’ business assists it in offering 
a broad range of products at competitive 
prices relative to those of many of its smaller
wholesaling competitors. Spicers’ commitment
to supplying only the trade and not, as some 
of its competitors do, supplying end-users,
gives it a competitive advantage. Spicers
competes indirectly with a number of other
distribution channels. The most significant 
of these, contract stationers, accounts for
approximately 15% of the total market; they
generally sell to larger offices and offer a
smaller range of products than dealers. The
principal other competitor channels to market
are: mail order, office superstores, other
retailers and manufacturers selling direct 
to offices. 
2005/06 Performance
Despite continued progress at our continental
European businesses, Spicers’ result was
substantially affected by a sharp decline in 
the profitability of its UK business, largely
from the erosion of its sales margin in the 
face of stronger competition. Spicers’ cash
flow remained strong.
Spicers’ revenue advanced by 3.8% to £518.7
million, the growth coming almost entirely
from the contribution of Timmermans, the
Benelux business acquired in October 2005.
The fall in profit in the UK more than offset
better profits from continental Europe and
resulted in the adjusted operating profit being
lower at £12.6 million (2004/05: £21.5 million).
Spicers UK’s sales were flat but its profit was
sharply lower. This reflected general market
price deflation, a significantly reduced sales
margin from increased competitive pressure,
and higher costs incurred to overcome 
service shortcomings. 
In response to increased competitor activity,
Spicers UK’s selling prices were eroded and
customer rebates were increased significantly.
The substantial deterioration in margins in
stationery sector declining and electronic
office supplies (EOS) growing at up to 10%
1
per annum. The volume of products bought 
by offices continues to increase but the value
of the market is being held back by price
deflation caused by intense competition
between suppliers and the trend for consumers
to buy lower-specification or own-branded
products. EOS, which is a growing sector 
of the market, accounts for approximately
50% of the total office products market; 
it is especially price-competitive on the 
high-volume EOS products.
The relative shares of the various supply
channels to the end-user market differ by
country. However, in the countries in which
Spicers operates, the sector that Spicers
principally supplies, that of office products
dealers, accounts, on average, for approximately
35% of the total office products market. 
The share of the market held by dealers has
been relatively stable in recent years. Office
products dealers primarily sell to smaller and
medium-sized offices, generally offer a high
standard of service to their customers, and
source most of their products either from
wholesalers or direct from manufacturers.
Market Overview 
The office products markets of the UK, France
and Germany, in which Spicers currently has
over 90% of its sales, are estimated to be
worth approximately €9 billion, €8 billion 
and €11 billion, respectively, at trade prices. 
In 2005, these markets were estimated to have
been broadly flat overall, with the traditional
Spicers’ result was substantially
affected by erosion of sales margins
in the UK.
1 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data
Spicers’ Distribution Centres
*Opening autumn 2006
* DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 21
Spicers UK, particularly from higher levels 
of customer retrospective rebates, only became
fully apparent late in the financial year. This
highlighted management process and control
issues in Spicers UK which were addressed in
that business unit through senior management
changes and a review and reinforcement of
control processes. The managing director and
finance director of Spicers UK have left the
business and action has been taken to strengthen
the UK sales and operations functions. We are
also accelerating the programme to reduce our
structural cost base in the UK. 
In 2005/06, Spicers made further major
advances in rolling out its business model in
continental Europe. Spicers France continued to
perform well and profits advanced strongly. A
new central distribution centre at Chateauroux,
in central France, has been commissioned early
in 2006/07. Spicers Germany consolidated its
profitable position by concentrating its business
on higher margin sectors of the market. The
Spanish business continued to grow strongly
and achieved a profit for the year through
substantially higher sales at better margins. 
A new distribution centre near to Madrid is 
due to open in autumn 2006 which will extend 
our sales coverage across central and southern
Spain. Spicers Italy, which was launched in 
the autumn of 2004, continued its encouraging
build-up of sales. On 30 September 2005, we
further extended Spicers’ sales coverage in
continental Europe through the acquisition of
Timmermans NV, the leading office products
wholesaler in the Benelux region; Timmermans
has performed in line with our expectations.
Expansion
in action
STRENGTHENING OUR
NETWORK
Spicers Germany, which started trading
in 1998, is a key part of Spicers’
development in continental Europe. 
It consolidated its proﬁtable position 
in 2005/06 through high service levels,
increased efﬁciency and focusing on 
higher margin sectors of the market.
Spicers’ successful continental expansion
has strengthened its ability to purchase 
its product range at competitive prices.
2 3
1
4
1 Over 16,000 product lines are selected for 
inclusion in the Spicers Germany catalogue.
2 Over 90% of customers’ orders are delivered 
within 24 hours.
3 Efﬁcient order picking systems allow very 
high service quality levels.
4 The Hannover distribution centre processes 
over 20,000 orders per week.
SPICERS, HANNOVER, GERMANY 22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review
Financial Review
The results were signiﬁcantly
affected by sharply higher 
energy costs and a severe 
fall in Spicers’ UK proﬁts.
Trading Results 
The Group’s trading results for the year to 
30 April 2006 are summarised in Table 1. 
The financial key performance indicators 
used throughout this Review show two 
years’ data, for 2004/05 and 2005/06; these 
are prepared on the basis of International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). In
order to ensure consistency of data, figures 
for earlier years, prepared under UK GAAP,
have not been included; those for 2004/05
have been restated under IFRS.
The major drivers of the 2005/06 results 
were the substantial increases in energy costs
of circa £23 million, incurred principally in
the Paper and Corrugated segments, stronger
competition in the UK business of the Office
Products Wholesaling segment and higher
polymer costs and increased competition in 
the Plastic Packaging segment. The Operating
Review on pages 12 to 21 provides an
overview of the performance of the Group’s
operations in 2005/06. Further details on the
Group’s energy costs and the way in which
these are being managed are provided on 
page 24. 
Revenue for the financial year ended 30 April
2006 increased by 1.7% over the prior year; 
it was 2.7% higher in the first half of the year
and 0.8% higher in the second half compared
to the same periods in 2004/05. Excluding the
effects of the acquisition of Timmermans and
the disposals of John Dickinson and BSK,
revenue was up 3.7%. If in addition, one
excludes the effect of movements in foreign
exchange rates, revenue was up 3.1% on
2004/05 (up 3.4% in the first half of the 
year and up 2.8% in the second half). 
Adjusted Group operating profit (excluding
exceptional items) in 2005/06 was £60.4 million
(2004/05: £82.6 million). The reduction 
in adjusted Group operating profit resulted
from decreases in UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging of £11.1 million, in Plastic
Packaging of £2.1 million and in Office
Products Wholesaling of £8.9 million.
Performance in Continental European
Corrugated Packaging was broadly flat (down
£0.1 million). Group adjusted operating profit
in the first half of the year was £33.2 million
(2004/05 H1: £42.6 million) and in the second
half was £27.2 million (2004/05 H1: £40.0
million). Adjusted full year operating profit
from UK operations fell by £26.4 million to
£18.4 million, principally due to lower profits
in UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging and
the UK business within Office Products
Wholesaling. Adjusted operating profits 
from non-UK operations were up £4.2 million,
reflecting the stronger continental European
performance of Office Products Wholesaling,
Table 1 – Trading Results Summary
Full year Second half
2005/06 2004/05 2005/06 2004/05
Revenue – £m 1,652.7 1,624.9 831.1 824.8
Adjusted
1
operating proﬁt – £m 60.4 82.6 27.2 40.0
Adjusted
1
return on sales – % 3.7% 5.1% 3.3% 4.8%
Adjusted
1
return on capital employed – % 6.5% 8.7% 5.9% 8.3%
1 before exceptional items
Gavin Morris Group Finance Director
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 23
including the acquired business in the Benelux
region, and a different geographical mix 
of profits within Plastic Packaging. The
Group’s adjusted return on sales was 
3.7% (2004/05: 5.1%). 
The Group incurred exceptional charges of
£42.4 million during the year (2004/05: net
exceptional charges of £9.6 million). These
arose on the closure of loss-making paper
capacity and related restructuring in UK 
Paper and Corrugated Packaging (£28.9
million), the disposals of the Office Products
Manufacturing business (£1.7 million) and 
a business in the Plastic Packaging segment
(£2.6 million), and an impairment charge
against an investment in an independent UK
packaging business (£9.2 million). Operating
profit after exceptional items was £18.0
million (2004/05: £71.9 million).
The Group’s adjusted return on capital
employed (which is defined as the annualised
adjusted operating profit divided by the
average month-end capital employed)
decreased from 8.7% in 2004/05 to 6.5% 
in 2005/06. This return is unacceptable as it 
is below the Group’s estimated pre-tax cost of
capital of circa 9%. The decline in the Group’s
return on capital employed reflects lower
returns in 2005/06 across all the Group’s
segments, either as a result of the lower
operating profits described above or, in the
case of Continental European Corrugated
Packaging, an increase in the capital employed
following substantial investment in 2005/06,
notably in a new Polish corrugated plant, 
the full-year benefits of which are not yet
reflected in the result. 
Income Statement 
Net interest expense decreased from 
£13.2 million in 2004/05 to £12.3 million 
in 2005/06, mainly reflecting lower euro
interest rates on broadly similar average net
debt. Employment benefit net finance income
was £1.2 million (2004/05: £1.1 million).
The Group included £4.1 million as the
Group’s share of associated undertakings’
after-tax profit, up from the adjusted share 
of after-tax profits of £3.4 million in 2004/05.
This increase related mainly to the Group’s
share of operating profit from OJSC
Rubezhansk, the Group’s 39%-owned paper
and packaging company in the Ukraine. 
Adjusted profit before tax was £53.4 million
(2004/05: £73.9 million). Profit before tax
after exceptional items was £11.0 million
(2004/05: £64.3 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate, excluding
exceptional items and associates, at 27%, 
was slightly higher than last year’s rate 
of 25%, both years’ rates benefiting from 
prior year items following the resolution 
of historical tax uncertainties. Excluding the
effect of any prior year items, the effective 
tax rate is expected to be slightly higher than
the UK statutory rate in the coming year.
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 10.0p
(2004/05: 14.4p). Basic earnings per share
were 1.1p (2004/05: 12.2p).
Dividend 
The proposed final dividend is maintained at
5.8p (2004/05: 5.8p). The total dividend for
the year is 8.4p (2004/05: 8.4p). Dividend
cover before exceptional items was 1.2 times
in 2005/06 (2004/05: 1.7 times). Dividend
cover after exceptional items was 0.1 times
(2004/05: 1.5 times).
Cash Flow 
Free cash flow (which is defined as the net
cash flow before dividends, acquisitions and
disposals) and net cash flow are shown in
Table 2. Cash generated from operations was
£138.2 million (2004/05: £139.7 million). 
This reflects the lower adjusted operating
profit, higher payments in respect of
exceptional items, a significant inflow from
working capital and an increase in pension
payments. There were cash outflows in respect
of exceptional items of £4.6 million (including
cash outflows related to exceptional charges
made in 2004/05), compared with £2.5 million
in 2004/05. There was a strong focus on
working capital management which resulted 
in a cash inflow of £27.4 million. In respect 
of pension payments, the Group agreed with
the trustees to increase its annual contributions
into the UK Group Pension scheme from
£10.0 million in 2004/05 to £14.0 million 
in 2005/06, which is reflected in the higher
pension cash contributions; contributions by
the Group to the UK scheme will remain at
this level in 2006/07. Purchase of fixed assets
was £62.7 million; the £9.1 million increase
from 2004/05 reflects the investment in the
new corrugated packaging facility in Poland
Table 2 – Cash Flow
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating proﬁt before
exceptional items 60.4 82.6
Depreciation and
amortisation 67.2 68.6
EBITDA 127.6 151.2
Working capital 
movement 27.4 (6.9)
Exceptional cash costs (4.6) (2.5)
Other (12.2) (2.1)
Cash generated from
operations 138.2 139.7
Capital expenditure (62.7) (53.6)
Sales of assets 13.2 6.7
Taxation (13.5) (23.7)
Interest (12.0) (13.3)
Free cash ﬂow 63.2 55.8
Dividends (32.6) (31.6)
Net acquisitions 0.5 (11.7)
Net cash ﬂow 31.1 12.5
Shares issued 2.6 2.6
Purchase of own shares – (2.1)
Net debt acquired (2.6) –
Non-cash movements (6.1) 1.7
Net debt movement 25.0 14.7 24 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Financial Review
continued
and the investment within St Regis to support
growth in plasterboard liner production in 
the UK. 
Tax payments were £13.5 million (2004/05:
£23.7 million) as a result of the lower adjusted
trading profit described above and the 2005/06
exceptional charges, a substantial proportion
of which gave rise to current tax deductions. 
Free cash flow, before acquisitions, disposals
and dividends, was £63.2 million (2004/05:
£55.8 million). Cash dividend cover, defined
as free cash flow divided by dividends
paid/declared for the year, was 1.9 times, 
up from 1.7 times in 2004/05.
The net cash inflow on acquisitions and
disposals of £0.5 million (2004/05: £11.7
million outflow) reflected disposal proceeds 
of £11.0 million, primarily on the sales of 
John Dickinson and BSK, offset by the net
£10.5 million paid on the acquisition of the
Benelux office products wholesaling business,
Timmermans NV. The amount in 2004/05 
was primarily the consideration and costs 
for the acquisition of BPB Recycling.
Financial Position 
Shareholders’ funds totalled £532.1 million 
at 30 April 2006, up from £511.5 million 
at 30 April 2005. Net assets per share 
were 138.5p (2004/05: 133.6p). The profit
attributable to the shareholders of DS Smith
Plc was £4.2 million and dividends of 
£32.6 million were charged to reserves during
the year. (These dividends were the 2004/05
final dividend and the 2005/06 interim
dividend, since under IFRS the current 
year proposed dividend is not accrued in the
year-end balance sheet.) In addition, after-tax
actuarial gains of £37.9 million on the Group’s
defined benefit pension schemes were credited
to reserves through the statement of recognised
income and expense, as explained further
below. Other items recognised directly in
equity, related to foreign currency differences
and hedge accounting, totalled £9.9 million.
The Group’s closing net debt was £237.8
million, £25.0 million lower than at the start
of the year, after adjusting for the adoption 
of IAS 39.
Gearing was 43.9% (2004/05: 50.7%, after
adjusting for IAS 39); the decrease reflected
the improvement in borrowings from the net
cash inflow for the year and the increase in
shareholders’ funds from the reduction in the
net pension deficit. Adjusted interest cover
was 4.9 times, compared with 6.3 times last
year, the lower cover reflecting the lower
adjusted operating profit. The ratio of net 
debt to EBITDA (before exceptional items)
was 1.9 times (2004/05: 1.7 times). 
Energy Costs
The Group’s result in 2005/06 was
significantly affected by a further rise in
energy costs, particularly during the winter
period, even though the Group reduced 
its consumption by 6%; the cost increase had 
a particularly marked effect on our UK Paper
operations which incur over three-quarters 
of the Group’s energy and fuel costs. The
Group’s total costs for gas, electricity and
diesel fuel increased from circa £73 million 
in 2004/05 to circa £95 million in 2005/06. 
This equates to an increase of circa £23
million, after adjusting for disposals, and 
was principally due to a 76% year-on-year 
rise in the UK average market price of gas,
which we had partially hedged, and the expiry
in October 2005 of the Group’s favourable
previous fixed-price UK electricity contract. 
A new floating-rate electricity contract,
including flexible hedging arrangements,
replaced the previous contract; the increase 
in the market price for electricity, which was
up 71% in the year, was reflected in the rise 
in these costs.
The increase in UK energy prices can be
illustrated by comparing prices for gas and
electricity in the month of January. UK gas
market prices increased by 153% from 36.6
pence per therm in January 2005 to 92.7 pence
per therm in January 2006 and the forward
market price for January 2007 gas in June
2006 of 92.3 pence per therm anticipates this
high level being maintained. UK electricity
market prices increased by 116% from £25.30
per MWh in January 2005 to £54.50 per MWh
in January 2006 and the forward market price
for January 2007 electricity in June 2006 
was £71.35 per MWh, an increase on the
comparable prior year rate of 31%. In addition
to the general global rise in energy prices, the
Group has been affected by the high degree of
volatility of UK gas and electricity prices and
the higher increases in these prices in the UK,
where the large majority of our most energy-
intensive operations are located, compared
with the increases experienced in continental
Europe. These issues are principally a
consequence of the greater degree of
liberalisation of the UK energy market, 
the historical continental European practice 
of indexing gas and electricity prices to oil 
prices and the less efficient operation of the
energy markets in continental Europe, as was
confirmed by the February 2006 preliminary
report by the EU Commission on the
competitive conditions in the European 
gas and electricity markets. 
Capital Structure and 
Treasury Management 
The Group funds its operations from the
following sources of cash: operating cash 
flow, borrowings, shareholders’ equity and
disposals of peripheral businesses, where
appropriate. The Group’s objective is to
achieve a capital structure that results in an
appropriate cost of capital whilst providing
flexibility in immediate and medium-term
funding. The Group also aims to maintain a
strong balance sheet and to provide continuity
of financing by having a range of maturities
and borrowings from a variety of sources.
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are 
to ensure sufficient funds are available for the
Group to carry out its strategy and to manage
financial risks. The Group’s treasury strategy
is controlled through the Treasury Committee,
which meets regularly and includes the
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and 
the Group Finance Director. The Group
Treasury function operates in accordance 
with policies and procedures approved by the
Board and controlled by the Group Treasurer.
The function arranges funding for the Group,
provides a service to operations and implements
strategies for interest rate, foreign exchange
and energy exposure management. 
The Group’s borrowing facilities comprise: 
a private placement, due in 2012, of US$105
million and £25 million; a private placement,
due in 2014 and 2016, of US$200 million; 
and a syndicated revolving credit facility of
£250 million, which expires in 2010. At 30
April 2006, the Group’s committed borrowing
facilities were £480.2 million. Uncommitted
borrowing facilities, including overdrafts,
totalled £104.8 million. The total gross
borrowings drawn under all these facilities  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 25
at the year end were £272.6 million. The
Group’s borrowing facilities have a weighted
average maturity of five years and ten months.
The major treasury risks to which the Group 
is exposed relate to movements in interest and
foreign exchange rates and market prices for
energy. The overall objective of the Treasury
function is to control these exposures whilst
striking an appropriate balance between
mitigating risks and controlling costs. Financial
instruments, including derivatives, may be
used in implementing hedging strategies but
no speculative use of financial instruments 
or derivatives is permitted. 
The Group manages the risks associated 
with its purchases of energy in the UK 
through its Energy Procurement Group, which
operates under the oversight of the Treasury
Committee. UK purchases of energy represent
the significant majority of the Group’s overall
energy costs. The Group has flexible price
purchase arrangements with its suppliers of
electricity and natural gas; it also enters into
hedge arrangements with its suppliers and
financial institutions. 
The Treasury Committee regularly reviews 
the Group’s exposure to interest rates and
considers whether to borrow on fixed or
floating terms. For the past few years the
Group has had a policy of borrowing at
floating rates, which the Treasury Committee
believed provided better value. The Group took
advantage of low levels of medium-to-long-
term sterling interest rates in recent years and
fixed the interest rate on a total of £80.2 million
of sterling denominated borrowings. Of this
amount, the interest rate on £40.0 million 
was fixed, during 2003/04, for a period of five
years to 2008 and the interest rate on £40.2
million was fixed, during 2004/05, for a period
of 12 years to 2016. Fixed-rate borrowings,
taking into account the effect of related swaps,
comprised 30% of total borrowings at 30 April
2006 (30 April 2005: 27%).
The Group has a net investment in major
overseas subsidiary companies’ foreign
currency assets and liabilities, in particular
those whose functional currency is the euro 
or the United States dollar. The Group’s policy
is to hedge part of the resulting exposure 
to movements in foreign currency rates, by
means of borrowings in the same currency, to
a level determined by the Treasury Committee.
The Group’s foreign currency borrowings may
be put in place either in the currency itself 
or through the use of cross-currency swaps 
on differently denominated borrowings. The
Group applies hedge accounting under IAS 39
to its hedges of its net investment of foreign
currency subsidiaries and records exchange
differences arising on the net investments 
and the related foreign currency borrowings
directly in equity.
Overseas net assets hedged through euro
borrowings as a proportion of euro net
investment decreased from 83% at 30 April
2005 to 81% at 30 April 2006. 
In addition, the Group’s operations make 
sales and purchases in foreign currencies;
here, cash flow hedges are taken out to reduce
the risk associated with these transactions.
Accounting Policies
The Group’s accounting policies are set 
out in note 1 to the financial statements. The
Group has identified the following accounting
policies, and the judgements involved in their
application, as being critical to understanding
the results and position of the Group: 
• Impairment: when applying IAS 36,
Impairment of Assets, the Group compares
the carrying amounts of goodwill and
intangible assets with the higher of their 
net realisable value and their value-in-use 
to determine whether an impairment exists. 
The value-in-use is calculated by discounting
future cash flows expected to be generated
by the assets or group of assets being tested
for impairment. The use of different estimates,
assumptions and judgements, in particular
those involved in (a) determining a value
based on our current estimation of future
conditions and the associated cash from the
Group’s operations and (b) our determination
of the level at which groups of assets can
reasonably be tested for impairment separately
from other parts of the business, could result
in different carrying value of assets and
assessment of impairments. Note 10 to 
the financial statements sets out additional
information regarding the Group’s annual
impairment exercise.
• Pension and other post-retirement benefits:
IAS 19, Employee Benefits, requires the
Group to make assumptions including, but
not limited to, future asset returns, rates 
of inflation, discount rates and current and
future life expectancies. The use of different
assumptions could have a material effect on
the accounting values of the relevant assets
and liabilities, which in turn could result 
in a change to the cost of such liabilities 
as recognised in the income statement over
time. The assumptions involved are subject
to periodic review. Note 24 to the financial
statements sets out additional information
regarding the Group’s pension and other
post-retirement benefits.
The changes in accounting policy that have
resulted from the transition to IFRS are set 
out in note 36 to the financial statements.
The likely effect of future changes in accounting
standards and interpretations is also set out in
note 1 to the financial statements.
Pensions
The Group operates two defined benefit
pension schemes in the UK and has some
small, overseas arrangements. The aggregate
gross assets of the schemes at 30 April 2006
were £706.1 million and the gross liabilities at
30 April 2006, calculated under IAS 19, were
£756.4 million, resulting in the recognition of
a gross balance sheet deficit of £50.3 million
(30 April 2005: £114.8 million); a net £35.3
million (30 April 2005: £80.3 million) after
the establishment of a deferred tax asset of
£15.0 million (30 April 2005: £34.5 million). 
In order to control the future costs and
financial obligations of these schemes, 
the Group’s UK defined benefit pension
schemes were closed to new members. The
contributions collected from members have
been increased during 2005/06 and will further
increase during 2006/07. The lower service
cost in 2005/06, £11.4 million compared with
£12.8 million in 2004/05, reflects these higher
member contributions. The Group also agreed
to increase its contributions to the main UK
scheme, from £10 million in 2004/05 to 
£14 million from 2005/06. The next triennial
valuation of the scheme is to be carried out 
as at 30 April 2007.
The balance sheet funding position of the
schemes is sensitive to market conditions, in
particular the level of stock markets and bond
yields, and actuarial assumptions, including
the assumed longevity of scheme members.
The balance sheet valuation of the schemes’ 26 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Financial Review
continued
obligations, under IAS 19, is generally more
conservative than the valuations carried out 
by the trustees’ actuary, since the balance sheet
valuation discounts the future liabilities of the
schemes at a bond rate which takes no account
of the expected long-term out-performance of
the schemes’ investment in equities over gilts;
the trustees’ actuary’s valuations take some 
of this out-performance into account. 
The balance sheet deficit (before related
deferred tax) decreased from £114.8 million 
at 30 April 2005 to £50.3 million at 30 April
2006. The decrease of £64.5 million included
net actuarial gains of £54.4 million; the actual
return on assets was higher than the expected
return, but this was offset by an increase in 
the schemes’ liabilities that resulted from a
reduction in the discount rate used to value 
the liabilities, from 5.3% at 30 April 2005 to
5.1% at 30 April 2006. No changes were made
during the year to the assumptions made in
respect of the longevity of scheme members.
Outlook
We are achieving box price increases, but 
so far they have been insufficient to recover
fully the input cost rises incurred through the
supply chain. Based on current forward energy
market prices, we anticipate the increase in 
our underlying energy costs in 2006/07 will 
be somewhat higher than the £10 million that 
we indicated at the time of our trading update
in April. In Office Products Wholesaling, 
we expect our actions to result in improved
performance in the second half of the year. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 27
Business Review 
Risk Management
The procedures adopted by the Group to
manage its key risks and comply with the
guidance of the Turnbull Committee are
described in the Corporate Governance section
on pages 33 to 35. The Group’s exposure to
individual risks is limited and diversified by
the fact that it has several distinct types of
activity, with 27 business sectors operating
from over 100 operating sites in 16 different
countries, and it sells to a broad range of
customers. Any significant commercial and
other risks that are specific to a business
segment are described within the narrative 
on that segment. The principal Group-wide
key risks and the way they are managed are
described below. The Group mitigates its risk
exposure through an insurance programme 
that covers property and liability risks where 
it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
Movements in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates
These risks and the way in which they 
are managed through the Group’s Treasury
Committee and its subsidiary committees 
or groups are described on pages 24 and 25. 
The funding position on the Group’s deﬁned
beneﬁt pension schemes and the consequent
impact of any deﬁcit on corporate activity
The funding on the Group’s defined benefit
schemes is sensitive to a number of factors, as
set out on pages 25 and 26. The Group faces the
risk that this funding position will deteriorate
over time, in particular if actual longevity
exceeds current assumptions and investment
returns are lower than expected. The Group and
the schemes’ trustees seek to mitigate this risk
through the schemes’ investment strategy and
through increasing the contributions made to 
the scheme by both the members and the 
Group. The regulatory environment for pension
schemes and their trustees has changed in recent
years, in particular with the Pensions Act 2004:
the presence of a deficit in the schemes may
now oblige the trustees or possibly the 
Pensions Regulator to seek some further 
funding of the scheme in the event of a
significant corporate action.
The continuing availability of borrowing
facilities, including compliance with
borrowing covenants
The Group’s borrowing facilities and their
management through the Treasury Committee
are described on pages 24 and 25. 
Serious breaches of the law or 
other regulations
The Group’s Key Corporate Values, which 
are described in more detail in the Corporate
Social Responsibility Review on page 29 and
are available in full on the Group’s website,
require all employees to comply with all
relevant laws and regulations in the countries
in which it operates. The Group recognises the
risk that substantial fines, or other penalties,
may be imposed for non-compliance with 
laws and regulations relating to competition,
environmental, health and safety or other
matters, and has control mechanisms and
systems in place for monitoring compliance. 
It also carries out training programmes for
employees and has systems in place to share
expertise and best practice on these matters.
The Group has a workplace malpractice 
policy and a process for employees across 
its international operations to report any
suspected wrongdoing in confidence, 
where such reporting is permitted by law.
Political instability
Profits from the Group’s wholly-owned
operations are not subject to any significant
degree of political risk as they are almost
entirely located in countries which are members
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD), members of which
are committed to democratic government and
the market economy. The Group’s profits 
from associated undertakings, which were 
£4.1 million in 2005/06, are currently exposed
to some political risk as they are substantially
derived from OJSC Rubezhansk, a paper and
corrugated packaging business located in 
the Ukraine, a country which has recently
experienced political instability. The 
Group’s ability to manage this risk is also
reduced since it has influence, rather than
control, over these operations. The Group
maintains a close relationship with local
management and regular visits are made to 
the Ukraine by Group executives to ensure 
a good understanding of the business and 
the Ukrainian political situation.
Volatility and increasing energy prices
The Group’s exposure to energy costs is
described on page 24. We are managing
energy costs through a five point strategy:
• maximising in-house energy generation 
from our combined heat and power (CHP)
plants in the UK and France and a UK
waste-to-energy plant, thereby taking
advantage of the greater efficiency of the
CHP process and benefiting from long-term
energy supply contracts;
• focusing our operational development and
investment on our most energy-efficient
plants while withdrawing from the least
energy-efficient operations, such as
Sudbrook Mill, which was closed in 
April 2006;
• reducing our energy usage across the Group
through energy-saving projects, including
investment in more energy-efficient boilers
and electronic controls for heating and
lighting systems. The Group’s sites
consumed 6% less energy in 2005/06
compared with 2004/05;
• developing further our centralised energy
purchasing operations in the UK and 
France. This approach enables us to obtain
economies of scale in buying and to apply
high levels of expertise, including using the
application of the increasingly sophisticated
price-hedging methods that are available; and
• monitoring regulatory developments in the
energy market and collaborating with other
heavy energy users in the paper and other
industry sectors to influence government 
on energy policy and the operation of the
energy markets.
Volatility of pricing and availability 
of globally traded raw materials
In 2005/06, the Group purchased over 
£70 million of waste paper and approximately 
£80 million of polymers and films as the
principal raw materials in its Paper and Plastic
Packaging businesses, respectively. These
products are globally traded and subject 
to variations in supply and demand which
result in volatility in their pricing. The Group
endeavours to recover any raw material cost
increases from its customers through price
rises. Approximately one-third of the Group’s
corrugated and plastic packaging customer
contracts include arrangements to link selling
prices to an index of raw material prices. The
achievement of price increases for the majority
of our Packaging business is substantially
determined by the state of supply and demand
in the relevant market at any time. Due to 
the variety of contractual arrangements 
with customers, margins may be squeezed  28 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Risk Management
continued
for a period of time until price increases 
are achieved to recover input cost increases.
The Group’s Severnside Recycling business
collects and trades waste paper to ensure 
a continuous cost-competitive supply to the
Group’s paper mills. It achieves this through
long-term contracts with major suppliers 
of waste paper and the collection of waste 
from smaller suppliers through its network 
of collection depots. Of the Group’s total
polymer and film purchases in 2005/06,
polycarbonate, polypropylene and high density
polyethylene accounted for approximately
40% with the remainder comprising a large
number of different polymers and films. The
Group has a high level of expertise in polymer
purchasing and uses a range of suppliers to
ensure it is purchasing at competitive prices.
Product liability
The Group’s packaging products, many of
which are supplied into the food and beverage
industries, may give rise to potentially
substantial product liability claims in the 
event of a failure of the packaging to perform
its function when in use or from contamination
of the product contained by the packaging.
The potential for such claims is reduced by 
the fact that the majority of the Group’s
packaging is used as secondary, or transit,
packaging and does not come into direct
contact with the products it protects. The
Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure 
the safety and adequate performance levels of
its packaging through design, manufacturing
control processes, technical testing and other
means while having appropriate product
liability insurances in place. It also looks 
to minimise its product liability risk through
its terms and conditions of trading.
Social, environmental and ethical 
(SEE) matters
The Group’s management of SEE risks 
is described in the Corporate Social
Responsibility Review on pages 29 to 32. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 29
to the Board quarterly and the importance 
of safety is reflected in it being the first fixed
agenda item at all main Board, executive
committee and divisional review meetings. 
As we reported in the 2004/05 review,
regrettably, one UK employee died in August
2004 as a result of injuries sustained while
operating machinery at one of our corrugated
packaging plants. Immediate action was taken
to prevent a recurrence of this accident. In
February 2006, the Group was fined £75,000
for a breach of the Health and Safety at 
Work Act in connection with this accident.
In 2005/06, the high level of management
attention devoted to safety was reflected in 
a 26% reduction in the number of lost time
accidents. There was a 6% reduction in the
accident frequency rate, which measures all
accidents in proportion to the working hours
lost, and a 12% reduction in the accident
severity rate, which measures the hours lost 
as a result of all accidents as a percentage 
of the total hours worked. 
Business Review 
Corporate Social Responsibility Review 
DS Smith is committed to providing good
sustainable returns for its investors while
maintaining high standards of ethical and
social behaviour in all its business dealings. 
The short-term and long-term risks to 
the Group arising from corporate social
responsibility (CSR) matters are considered 
by the Board as part of its regular review of the
key risks to the Group’s operations. The Board
ensures that effective policies and systems for
managing the Group’s CSR risks are in place
and receives regular reports on performance.
The Group Chief Executive is the Director
responsible for CSR matters and he reports 
to the Board on these. It is the responsibility 
of the Divisional Chief Executives and General
Managers of the individual businesses to
communicate and to apply the policies, to
ensure compliance and to review procedures,
taking account of local legislation and potential
risks. Divisional Chief Executives are required
annually to attest that the companies for which
they are responsible have complied with
relevant Group and divisional human resources,
health and safety and environmental policies.
The Group’s Key Corporate Values statement
may be viewed on the Group’s website. 
It requires all employees at all times to act
ethically and with integrity; to treat their
colleagues fairly, equitably and with respect;
to work safely; and to protect the environment.
These values are underpinned by more
detailed policies on health and safety, the
environment and other relevant topics. The
Group has a workplace malpractice policy,
under which employees may report in
confidence any concerns they have over
dangers to health, safety or the environment,
breaches of company policies or potential
unethical business practices or conduct. This
policy was reinforced during 2005/06 with 
the introduction of a confidential Employee
Concern Helpline which is currently available
to employees in the UK, Ireland and the 
USA and in due course will be extended to
other countries. Any concerns reported are
appropriately investigated. 
DS Smith has been selected as a constituent 
of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies
deemed to meet globally recognised corporate
responsibility standards. DS Smith is also 
a constituent of the Kempen/SNS Smaller
Europe SRI Index for smaller companies
deemed to have high social responsibility
standards and practice. 
The Group’s primary CSR focus is on 
ensuring that all activities are conducted safely
by qualified and well-trained employees and 
on minimising the impact on the environment
of the Group’s businesses. In addition to Health
and Safety and the Environment, the Group also
places considerable importance on its dealings
with its employees and local communities. 
This CSR review presents information on 
these priority aspects of CSR for the Group.
Health and Safety 
A safe workplace and safe working practices
are not only a legal and ethical requirement 
for the Group but are also essential elements
in the Group’s drive to raise operational
performance; they are key factors in attracting
and retaining a high quality and well-
motivated workforce and in carrying out our
operations productively and cost-effectively.
Information on safety performance is reported
Lost Time Accidents  
Number of accidents resulting  
in lost time of one shift or more
2004 2005 2006 
429 438
324
Accident Frequency Rate
Number of accidents of all types  
per 100,000 hours worked 
2004 2005 2006 
12.42 
10.25 
 
9.60
Accident Severity Rate  
Working hours lost as a result of accidents  
as a percentage of hours worked 
2004 2005 2006 
0.33% 
0.25% 
0.22% 
Our primary CSR focus is 
on ensuring safe working 
and minimising the Group’s 
impact on the environment.
  30 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued
The Group’s businesses share experience 
and information on safety matters. They 
also work closely with external health and
safety agencies who are able to help identify
areas for increased attention and to provide
appropriate training. Our businesses’ health
and safety training programmes focused
strongly on accident investigation and 
risk assessment in 2005/06. Surveys about
employees’ attitudes to safety were carried 
out at a number of sites. These were followed
up with workshops aimed at identifying
opportunities for improving the safety of the
working environment and changing people’s
behaviour in relation to safety.
Although the Group made good progress 
in 2005/06, we have launched a Group-wide
campaign, under the slogan “Think Safe – Be
Safe”, with the objective of raising employees’
awareness of their individual responsibilities
for preventing accidents. In common with 
our general approach to safety, the Group’s
businesses are implementing improvement
programmes, linked to the core theme, which
are tailored to the particular causes of accidents
and circumstances in their operations.
Environment 
During 2005/06, DS Smith continued to
develop its substantial recycling activities 
and made further progress in strengthening 
the environmental management of its
operations. The environmental performance
and activities of the divisions are reviewed 
at the Group Environment Committee, which
meets three times a year and is chaired by 
the Group Chief Executive. 
Further progress was made in 2005/06 
towards our goal that all Group sites will have
an appropriate environmental management
system (EMS) in place. 92% of the Group’s
sites now have an EMS and within this 87% 
of the 30 Group sites identified as having
higher potential environmental impact, due 
to their size or type of operations, are now
accredited under the internationally recognised
ISO 14001 EMS. 94% of the Group’s other 
68 sites have a simplified EMS in place,
appropriate to their lower level of potential
environmental impact. As part of their EMS,
many Group businesses have procedures 
in place for assessing their suppliers’
environmental policies and management
systems, as appropriate.
The Group had a number of minor
environmental incidents during the year,
following which prompt corrective action 
and steps to prevent any recurrence were taken
and, where necessary, the appropriate agencies
were informed. The circumstances surrounding
all environmental incidents are investigated
immediately and the findings and lessons
learnt are communicated throughout the Group
as part of our drive to reduce such incidents.
The Group’s paper manufacturing 
operations account for over 80% of the
Group’s environmental impact, particularly
because their manufacturing process uses 
large quantities of energy and water. The UK 
paper mills are regulated through Pollution
Prevention and Control (PPC) permits under
which they each have specific improvement
programmes and targets; St Regis’ overall
compliance with its PPC emission limits 
was 99.7% in 2005/06. St Regis is a key
participant in the UK paper sector Climate
Change Levy (CCL) Agreement with the
Department of Environment Food and 
Rural Affairs under which the industry has
undertaken to achieve energy consumption
reduction targets. St Regis met its target for
the year to September 2005 and is on course
comfortably to meet its next target for the 
year to September 2006. 
The Group’s UK and French paper operations
are now subject to the terms of their respective
national schemes for implementing the EU
Emissions Trading Directive. Under the terms
of the UK scheme, our UK mills have opted
out of the first phase of the Emissions Trading
scheme and remain within the UK paper 
sector CCL Agreement. Carbon emissions 
by our French mills, which are subject to their
national scheme, have to date been lower than
their allocation under the scheme and they
consequently sold excess carbon credits 
during 2005/06. 
Throughout the Group, our businesses
undertook a variety of initiatives to reduce
their environmental impact and the benefits 
of these are reflected in environmental
performance indicators shown in the table 
on the opposite page.
Environmental Performance
The Group consumed 6% less energy in
2005/06 and consumption per £’000 of
revenue was 8% lower. This was attributable
to a number of factors: some plant closures;
reductions in plant operating days due to 
weak demand and high energy costs; increased
operating of the Kemsley combined heat 
and power (CHP) plant; energy reduction
projects and investment. The installation 
of new boilers at St Just and Chouanard 
in France and Corum in Turkey improved 
the energy efficiency of these plants. Across
the Group, businesses continue to undertake
energy conservation projects, in some cases
with the assistance of external agencies such
as The Carbon Trust.
The reductions in the Group’s emissions to 
air in 2005/06 reflect the lower energy usage
and the investment in new, more efficient 
gas boilers at some plants. In addition to the
Group’s emissions of carbon dioxide, which
were 6% lower than in 2004/05, the other
gases emitted to air in material quantities 
are sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides.
Water usage was 13% lower in 2005/06,
principally as a result of the Group’s
investment in water recycling processes. 
At Wansbrough mill, a new system which
recycles cooling water contributed to a 
47% reduction in its water usage per tonne 
of paper produced. 
The Group recycled approximately 82% 
of the waste produced by its businesses in
2005/06; this proportion was slightly ahead 
of the figure for 2004/05. A substantial
proportion of this recycling is accounted for
by the reprocessing of waste created during
the production of corrugated packaging and
plastic packaging. The paper mills also recycle
much of the reject material, such as plastic 
and polystyrene, which enters their process
mixed in with the waste paper and is separated
Environmental Management  
% of Group sites with an appropriate  
environmental management system (EMS) 
2004 2005 2006 
52 
47
77
84
87
94 
Higher potential environmental impact sites 
with ISO 14001 accreditation 
Lower potential environmental impact sites 
with a simpliﬁed EMS  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 31
Environmental Performance Indicators
2005/06 2004/05 2003/04
Energy consumption
1
GWhs 4,138 4,398 4,140
MWhs/£’000 revenue 2.50 2.71 2.78
Emissions to air
2
Carbon dioxide (CO
2
)
‘000 tonnes 926 981 918
Tonnes/£’000 revenue 0.56 0.60 0.62
Sulphur dioxide (SO
2
)
‘000 tonnes 1.97 2.00 1.89
Kgs/£’000 revenue 1.19 1.23 1.27
Nitrous oxides (NO
x
)
‘000 tonnes 2.46 2.61 2.45
Kgs/£’000 revenue 1.49 1.60 1.64
Water
Water usage
Million cubic metres 14.9 17.2 17.1
‘000 cubic metres/£’000 revenue 9.0 10.6 11.5
Water emissions (paper mills only)
3
Million cubic metres of process water discharged 10.5 10.7 11.2
‘000 cubic metres/tonne of paper produced 8.4 8.6 9.2
Waste management
Waste sent to landﬁll
‘000 tonnes 72 75 80
Kgs/£’000 revenue 43 46 54
Waste recycled
4
‘000 tonnes 324 324 282
Kgs/£’000 revenue 196 200 189
% of total waste recycled 82% 81% 78%
Coverage: data for John Dickinson, which was sold in July 2005, are included for the years 2003/04 and 2004/05 but not for
2005/06; data for the former Linpac Containers operations, which were acquired in March 2004, are not included for 2003/04 
but are included for subsequent years.
1 Data relate to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport. 
2 Emissions to air have been calculated from our sites’ usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel, and therefore include both direct emissions
and indirect emissions related to bought-in electricity.
3 The water emissions data relate only to the Group’s paper mills, which use over 95% of the Group’s water. The quantities measured, 
in accordance with the requirements of the IPPC regulations, are for process water only and do not include cooling water.
4 Data relate to waste generated by our operations and includes recycling through waste-to-energy and agricultural use through landspread.
out during paper manufacture. Kemsley mill
recycles a substantial proportion of its process
waste through its own waste-to-energy plant. 
Packaging and the Environment 
Packaging is often perceived as an unnecessary
use of resources. However, most packaging,
and especially corrugated packaging, performs
the valuable functions of limiting damage to
products, enabling more efficient handling 
and transportation, reducing product wastage
and lowering the environmental impact of 
the supply of goods. The Group’s packaging
operations contribute towards minimising 
the use of resources by working with their
customers to develop packaging of the
optimum specification for the required end-
use. Increased use of packaging that performs
the dual functions of being both the protective
transit packaging and the display packaging in
store reduces the total quantity of packaging
used for some products. 
The Group’s operations make a major
contribution to the corrugated packaging
recycling process. Corrugated board is
produced predominantly from recycled paper
and is a cost-effective and fully recyclable
packaging material. Severnside Recycling 
is the UK’s largest collector of waste paper
and also collects other materials for recycling. 
In 2005/06 it collected 0.7 million tonnes of
corrugated packaging as part of the 1.1 million
tonnes of paper and plastic that it collected in
total. Severnside collects the waste from major
supermarkets, other retailers and industrial
concerns. It is providing the waste collection
services for Tesco plc’s project to collect
consumer packaging waste at a number of its
stores. St Regis is the UK’s leading recycler 
of packaging waste and largest producer of
recycled paper, while DS Smith Kaysersberg
is a significant recycler of recovered paper in
France; in total the Group recycled 1.1 million
tonnes of paper in 2005/06. 
The Group’s paper collection and recycling
operations also play an important role 
in meeting the EU and UK government
objectives for recycling of packaging waste as
prescribed in the EU Packaging and Packaging
Waste Directive and the UK Packaging Waste
Regulations. Under the Directive, the UK is
required to recycle at least 60% of all paper
packaging by 2008; it is already well ahead of
this target, with 74% of paper packaging being 32 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review 
Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued
recycled in 2005, and DS Smith is the largest
UK contributor to this reprocessing. Exports
of paper packaging for reprocessing increased
from 0.6 million tonnes in 2004 to 1.1 million
tonnes in 2005. Whereas corrugated packaging
is generally used once and can then be
recycled in what is essentially a loop system,
the Group’s plastic returnable transit
packaging is designed to be re-used, often
many times, where customers require multi-
trip packaging. Several of our businesses
reprocess worn or damaged plastic packaging,
such as bottle crates or layer pads, to produce
new crates or plastic sheet. Wherever it is
appropriate for the end-use, our product
development teams look to use a higher
proportion of recycled plastic material 
in our products.
Employees
The Group recognises the value that its
employees generate and aims to create a
working environment in which people can 
feel that they are well-managed, treated 
with respect and able to fulfil their potential. 
It ensures that the divisions have in place
appropriate structures, procedures and
resources to implement the employee-related
aspects of the Group’s Key Corporate Values. 
The recruitment and retention of high-quality
and well-motivated people is key to the
Group’s future success. The annual turnover
rate in the Group’s workforce worldwide 
of approximately 11% compares favourably
with the UK national average of 16%. Our
manufacturing operations tend to have lower
turnover rates than our wholesaling operations. 
The Group strengthened its processes for
employee communication and consultation 
by establishing divisional Employee Forums
for UK employees, which met for the first
time during the summer of 2005 and now
complement the Group’s existing European
Works Council and the businesses’ established
briefing and consultation structures. In
addition, our divisions and businesses
communicate with their people through
newsletters, intranets and briefing meetings.
Some businesses conducted employee
feedback surveys during the year and are 
now implementing the results of these. 
Training and development are carried out 
by the divisions and businesses to meet 
their specific needs for raising operational
performance and career development. The
divisions and businesses operate a variety 
of schemes which include training in
manufacturing and distribution business skills,
IT and health and safety; they also provide
management development programmes and
support for study for external vocational 
and professional qualifications. An extensive
training programme was implemented for 
the employees of the new Polish corrugated
packaging plant at Kutno, 95% of whom were
newly recruited. Their programme included
periods spent at DS Smith’s plants at Kielce 
in Poland and Lari in Italy to learn best
practice; throughout they were supported 
by operators from DS Smith’s French plants
and the technicians from the Kutno plant’s
machinery suppliers. This thorough training
programme was a major contributor to 
the new plant operating well as soon as 
it was commissioned. 
The Group is committed to applying 
equal opportunities in all recruitment and
employment practices. It is also committed,
as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights
and legislation requirements in each of the
countries in which it operates; in practice 
the Group often exceeds the local and
international requirements. As DS Smith’s
operations are almost entirely located in
member counties of the OECD, human rights
matters are not perceived as a significant
Group risk.
Community Involvement
The Group places considerable emphasis 
on developing and maintaining good relations
and a positive reputation in the communities 
in which it operates. Our individual businesses
support their local communities through a
range of activities such as sponsorship of
community projects or sports teams; helping
local schools with project work, training,
mentoring or provision of work experience
opportunities; and provision of adult training
skills or facilities. At sites where our
operations may inconvenience neighbours
through traffic movements, odour or noise,
liaison groups meet to consult with local
residents and review ways to minimise any
impact. Some sites hold open days to foster
relationships with their local communities. 
The Group supports charitable fund-raising
activities through cash contributions and in 
the form of product and services or staff time.
The majority of the modest amount of money
donated by the Group is given by individual
operating units, principally to causes in their
local communities. Donations by the Group
headquarters are focused on a small number 
of educational, training and support causes
that help young people become involved 
in business and working life.
Content of the Business Review
This Business Review has been prepared 
to meet the requirements for companies 
to provide an enhanced Business Review 
in accordance with the EU Accounts
Modernisation Directive and the March 2005
amendments to the UK’s 1985 Companies Act. 
Material Collected by Severnside Recycling 
‘000 Tonnes 
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 
458
511
569
682
688
736
773
881
1,077
1,130
84 
94 
Corrugated packaging
Total paper and plastic DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 33
Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to the principle
and application of sound corporate governance. 
The Company has complied throughout the
financial year with all the provisions of the
Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
issued in July 2003 except as stated below in
respect of A.4.1. The Board has an ongoing
review of its corporate governance policy and
has implemented some changes to take account
of the Combined Code and best practice. 
The Company’s Auditors have reviewed 
the compliance with those provisions of the
Combined Code specified for their review.
Board and Board Committees
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for
promoting the success of the Company by
directing and supervising the Company’s
affairs. The Board’s role is to provide
leadership of the Company within a
framework of prudent and effective controls
which enable risk to be assessed and managed. 
The Board sets the Company’s strategic 
aims and ensures that the necessary financial
and human resources are in place for the
Company to meet its objectives and reviews
management performance. 
In addition, the Board sets the Company’s
values and standards and ensures that its
obligations to its shareholders and others 
are understood and met. 
The Board currently comprises three 
Executive and six non-Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief
Executive are held separately. Mr R G 
Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr A P Hichens, who has been Chairman since
September 1999, will retire from the Board at
the end of December 2006, having reached the
age of 70. Mr P M Johnson, who has been a
non-Executive Director of the Company since
December 1999, will become Chairman on 
1 January 2007. During the year each of the
non-Executive Directors has at all times 
acted independently of management and 
has no relationships which would materially
interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement and decision making. It is
recognised that Mr D R Piette is not considered
a fully independent non-Executive Director
because of his length of service.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times
per year. During the year under review it 
met eight times. All Board members attend 
all Board and relevant Committee meetings
unless exceptional circumstances prevent 
them from attending. During the year Mr
Piette did not attend the Board meeting held 
in March. Mr Johnson did not attend the
Remuneration Committee meeting in March.
There were no other absences from any Board
or Committee meetings by any Director. 
In addition to formal Board meetings, the
Chairman and Chief Executive maintain
regular contact with all Directors and hold
informal meetings with non-Executive
Directors to discuss issues affecting the
Company. Once a year the Board visits a
business unit and receives a presentation 
from local management. Individual Directors
are encouraged to make additional site visits
during the year. The Board continually reviews
the performance of all of the divisions and
undertakes a strategic review on an annual
basis. There is a formal schedule of matters
reserved for consideration and approval for 
the Board. These include the annual Plan,
substantial acquisitions and divestments, 
the approval of the annual and interim results
and a review of the overall system of internal
control and risk management. 
The Board and its Committees, as detailed
below, receive timely information of a quality
that enables them to carry out their roles
effectively. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place for any Director to
take independent professional advice in the
furtherance of his duties at the Company’s
expense. No such advice was sought by any
Director during the year. The Directors are
provided with opportunities for training to
ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant
new legislation and changing commercial
risks. On appointment new Directors are given
appropriate induction training, including site
visits to major business units. During the year
the Board carried out a comprehensive self-
appraisal which was led by the Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director. The
appraisal included the performance of Board
Committees, although a separate and more
detailed appraisal of the Audit Committee 
was also carried out during the year. 
All Directors and the Company Secretary
participated in the exercise. During the current
financial year the Board intends to repeat the
process. The non-Executive Directors meet
separately at least once a year to appraise the
Chairman’s performance.
Board Committees
The principal Committees of the Board 
are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. The Audit Committee comprises
independent non-Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises
independent non-Executive Directors. The
Nomination Committee comprises a majority
of independent non-Executive Directors. 
The Nomination Committee did not comprise
a majority of independent non-Executive
Directors for the first two months of the year
under review (Combined Code A.4.1). For 
this reason Mr A D Thorne ceased to be a
member of the Committee on 28 June 2005
and Mr Johnson was appointed in his place.
All Board Committees have written terms 
of reference agreed by the Board. These 
are available on the Company’s website. The
Audit Committee is chaired by Mr C J Bunker,
the Remuneration Committee is chaired by 
Mr Beeston and the Nomination Committee 
is chaired by Mr Hichens. The membership
and experience of each Committee can be 
seen on page 5. The Board has used the
criteria proposed by the National Association
of Pension Funds for determining whether 
a non-Executive Director is independent.
Audit Committee
In addition to the Committee members listed
on page 5 the Chairman, the Group Chief
Executive, the Group Finance Director, the
Head of Operational Audit and the Group
Financial Controller attend by invitation. The
Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker has both
current and relevant financial experience. 
The terms of reference of the Audit
Committee, which meets at least three 
times a year, include all the matters indicated
by the Combined Code except the oversight 
of business risks which is the direct
responsibility of the Board. The primary
objective of the Audit Committee is to assist
the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities
relating to:
• the accounting principles, policies and
practices adopted in the Group’s accounts;
• external financial reporting and 
associated announcements;
  34 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Corporate Governance
continued
• the appointment, independence,
effectiveness and remuneration 
of the Group’s external Auditors;
• the resourcing, plans and effectiveness 
of the Operational Audit department;
• the adequacy and effectiveness of the
financial control environment, including 
the Group’s Workplace Malpractice
procedures; and
• the Group’s compliance with the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance.
The Committee receives and reviews 
regular reports from the external Auditors, 
the Head of Operational Audit and the 
Group Finance Director.
The Committee meets with the external
Auditors to determine their independence,
objectivity and effectiveness. The Audit
Committee receives written confirmation from
the external Auditors as to any relationships that
might have a bearing on their independence,
whether they consider themselves independent
within the meaning of the UK regulatory and
professional requirements, and their quality
control processes.
During the year the Committee also dealt 
with the following particular matters:
• it reviewed the policy on engagement of 
the external Auditors for non-audit work, 
as referred to below;
• it reviewed the Group’s implementation of
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS), including the selection of accounting
policies and the presentation of the transition
IFRS balance sheet, and the requirement of
other emerging new regulations, including
the Enhanced Business Review requirements
for the Annual Report and the audited
financial statements;
• it carried out an appraisal of the
effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the
external Auditors and Operational Audit by
means of a questionnaire, the results of
which were reported to the Board. The
Committee concluded that each area
operated satisfactorily during the year;
• it reviewed the circumstances surrounding 
a significant under-accrual of customers’
rebates in the management accounts of the
UK business of the Office Products
Wholesaling division that was rectified
during the financial year. As a consequence,
a further review was carried out of the
management and control processes involved
in the UK business; these have been
reinforced in that business as a result; and
• it oversaw the continuing development and
the operation of the Group’s Workplace
Malpractice policy.
The Committee’s policy on the supply of 
non-audit services by external auditors is as
follows. The external Auditors are permitted to
undertake some non-audit services, for example
advisory services and due diligence activities
associated with potential acquisitions and
divestments and major changes in accounting
regulations. The external Auditors provide
limited tax compliance services on certain
historical periods, but in future periods all 
such work will be performed by other external
advisors. Non-audit services and fees are
reported to the Audit Committee twice a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to
the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of
the annual Group audit fee without prior formal
approval of the Committee: during 2005/06,
non-audit fees were less than 30% of the annual
Group audit fee. Approval for permitted non-
audit services is sought as required by the
relevant Group policy. 
During the year the Committee met on 
three occasions and there were no absences.
On each occasion the Committee also met
privately with both the external Auditors and
the Head of Operational Audit. The Chairman
of the Audit Committee also held separate
private meetings during the year with the
external Auditors, the Head of Operational
Audit and the Group Finance Director.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee considers the
appointment of Directors, reviews succession
planning at Board level, and makes
recommendations to the Board as a whole. 
The Group Chief Executive attends by
invitation. A rigorous process is in place for
the appointment of new Directors, involving
the use of external recruitment consultants,
where appropriate, followed by meetings 
both with the Committee and then with the
Board. The Committee planned for some 
time for the appointment of a new Chairman
to succeed Mr Hichens in anticipation of his
retiring from the Board at the end of 2006,
having reached the age of 70. The Committee
considered that Mr Johnson was the right
person for the role based on his skill,
experience and knowledge of the Company.
Consequently, the Committee did not 
consider it appropriate to place an external
advertisement for the position of Chairman.
The Committee met three times during the
year and there were no absences.
Remuneration Committee
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive
attend these meetings by invitation, except
when their remuneration is being discussed. 
In addition Mr Piette attends by invitation in
order that he can provide an international 
view on remuneration. The Remuneration
Committee is responsible for determining the
remuneration of the Executive Directors, the
Company Secretary and senior management.
The Report on Remuneration is set out on
pages 36 to 42. During the year the Committee
met four times. Mr Johnson did not attend the
meeting in March 2006, but there were no
other absences.
Other Board Committees 
The Board has delegated certain powers,
mainly of a routine nature, to the General
Purposes Committee, which comprises the
Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance
Director under the chairmanship of the Group
Chief Executive.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company has a programme of regular
meetings (which sometimes includes the
Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director), site visits and results briefings 
with its major institutional shareholders, 
which provides opportunities to discuss the
progress of the business. The Board also
receives feedback from major shareholders 
in the form of independently prepared reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an
opportunity to communicate with private
shareholders, including a short presentation 
on the business and current trading position 
as well as an opportunity for questions from
investors to the Chairman of the Board and 
the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. Regular communication with
shareholders also takes place through the
annual and interim reports and via the
Company’s website www.dssmith.uk.com. • clearly defined policies for capital
expenditure and investment, including
appropriate authorisation levels, with larger
capital projects, acquisitions and disposals
requiring Board approval;
• procedure manuals laying down common
control procedures and policies to apply
throughout the Group; and
• formal quarterly meetings between central
and divisional management to discuss
strategic, operational and financial issues. 
The Group’s Operational Audit function
undertakes regular reviews of the Group’s
operations and their systems of internal
financial control. The work of the function 
is overseen by the Audit Committee, which
regularly reviews its plans and activities. The
Directors can confirm that they have reviewed
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of
internal control and that, in response to the
issues which arose in Spicers UK (discussed 
in the Operating Review and in the Report 
of the Audit Committee above), the control
processes in Spicers UK have received close
attention and been reinforced. The Directors’
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control included a process
of self-certification by senior divisional
management in which they are asked to
confirm that their divisions have complied
with Group policies and procedures and to
report any significant control weaknesses
identified during the past year. It also 
involved reviewing the results of the work 
of the Group’s operational audit function 
and the risk identification and management
processes identified above.
Going Concern
The Directors are required under the
Combined Code to have satisfied themselves
as to the Group’s ability to continue in
existence for the foreseeable future. A review
has been carried out and the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial
statements on pages 48 to 97.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the
Group’s system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system,
however, can only be designed to manage
rather than to eliminate risk and can therefore
provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. In accordance with the Turnbull
Committee guidance, the Company established
the procedures necessary to ensure that there is
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks to the
Group. These procedures have been in place
for the whole of the financial year ended 30
April 2006 and up to the date of the approval
of these financial statements and they are
reviewed regularly.
The Board determines the objectives and
broad policies of the Group. It meets regularly
and there is a schedule of matters which are
required to be brought to it for decision. The
Board has delegated to management the
responsibility for establishing a system of
internal control appropriate to the business
environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements of this system include:
• a set of Key Corporate Values which have
been communicated to all concerned;
• a clearly defined divisionalised organisation
structure for monitoring the conduct and
operations of individual business units; 
• clear delegation of authority throughout the
Group, starting with the matters reserved for
the Board;
• a formal process for ensuring that key risks
affecting all the Group’s operations are
identified and assessed on a regular basis,
together with the controls in place to
mitigate these risks. Risk consideration is
embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are periodically
reported to the Board and considered by it;
• the preparation and review of
comprehensive annual divisional and Group
budgets and an annual review and approval
by the Board of the corporate strategy;
• the monthly reporting of actual results 
and their review against budget, forecasts
and the previous year, with explanations
obtained for all significant variances;
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 35 36 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Remuneration Report
In accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002,
shareholders’ approval of the Remuneration
Report will be sought at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration
Report has been approved by the Board 
of Directors.
(a) Composition and role of 
the Remuneration Committee 
(‘the Committee’)
The Committee consists entirely of non-
Executive Directors. The members of the
Committee are Mr R G Beeston (Chairman),
Mr C J Bunker, Mr P M Johnson and Mr R E
C Marton. The members of the Committee 
are all independent. The members of the
Committee have no personal financial interest,
other than as shareholders of the Company, in
the matters to be decided by the Committee,
no potential conflicts of interest arising from
cross-directorships and no day-to-day
involvement in running the business. 
The Committee operates under written terms 
of reference agreed by the Board and is
responsible for determining the remuneration 
of Executive Directors and the Chairman. It also
considers the remuneration of senior executives
reporting to the Group Chief Executive (taking
into account recommendations from him) and
the incentives of senior executives reporting 
to the other Executive Directors. 
(b) Compliance
The Board, in conjunction with the Committee,
has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the
Company complies with the provisions of the
Combined Code (‘the Code’), which relate to
Directors’ remuneration. Certain disclosures 
in this Report fall within the scope of matters
for review by the Auditors. 
(c) Advisers to the Committee
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has been
appointed by the Committee to provide advice
on the remuneration of Executive Directors
and other managers. New Bridge Street
Consultants LLP also provides advice to the
Company in connection with the operation 
of the Company’s employee share schemes.
The Committee consults with the Chairman 
of the Company and with the Group Chief
Executive, who may attend a meeting of the
Committee on matters which do not directly
affect them, although they are not involved 
in deciding their own remuneration. The
Committee also consults with Mr D R Piette,
who attends by invitation in order that he can
provide an international view on remuneration.
The Committee is assisted by the Company
Secretary and the Human Resources Director,
and receives advice from Mercer Human
Resource Consulting Ltd, the Actuary to the
Company’s pension scheme, in relation to
Executive Directors’ pensions.
(d) General policy on remuneration
The Committee’s overall policy is to ensure
that the remuneration packages enable the
Company to attract, retain and motivate
Executive Directors and other senior managers
of sufficient calibre to meet the Company’s
needs. In addition, the remuneration packages
are designed to align the interests of
executives and shareholders and to link 
a significant proportion of executives’
remuneration to performance. To achieve 
this, the Company’s normal approach is to 
set basic salaries at around median levels
relative to businesses of similar size and
internationality, whilst operating cash and
share incentive schemes which are linked to
the achievement of short-term and long-term
performance targets. Variable performance
related remuneration for Executive Directors
accounts for approximately 50% of total 
target remuneration (excluding pensions). 
The remuneration package is described more
fully in the remainder of this report, but the
main elements are as follows:
• basic salary 
• pension provision 
• annual bonus scheme 
• long-term incentives, comprising:
(i) share option grants under the
Executive Share Option Scheme; and
(ii) awards under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan.
Basic salaries and pension provision are not
linked to performance (except when basic
salaries are reviewed), whilst payments under
the annual bonus scheme, the Executive Share
Option Scheme and the Long-Term Incentive
Plan are wholly dependent upon performance
against agreed targets.
(e) Basic salaries
The basic salaries of Executive Directors are
reviewed annually on 1 August, in conjunction
with other aspects of remuneration. The basic
salary for each Executive Director is targeted
at the rates of salary for similar jobs within 
a selected group of UK businesses of similar
size with substantial overseas operations. 
As noted above, the Company’s normal 
policy is to set basic salaries at around 
median levels. When determining the level 
of salary, the Committee also takes into
account the relative performance of the 
Group and of the individual Director, together
with his experience in the particular job. The
Committee also considers relevant information
on the remuneration of other senior executives
and the pay of employees elsewhere in the
Group and, where appropriate, communicates
its views on the levels of such remuneration 
to the Group Chief Executive. During its
deliberations, the Committee has regard to
salary levels in other countries where this is
relevant for any non-UK senior executive. 
The table of emoluments of the Directors is
given on page 40. The current basic salaries 
of Mr A D Thorne, Mr G M Morris and 
Mr J-P Loison are £475,000, £268,000 
and £256,147 respectively.
(f) Annual bonus
The Executive Directors participate in an
annual bonus scheme which has been approved
by the Committee. For the financial year
2005/06, the maximum bonus payable was
60% of basic salary at 31 July 2006, payable 
in cash. The amount of annual bonus payable
to Mr Thorne and Mr Morris for the financial
year 2005/06 was dependent entirely upon 
the Company’s profit before tax performance
relative to targets determined by the
Committee at the start of the year and for 
Mr Loison it was based 40% on Group profit
before tax performance and 60% on targets, 
as determined by the Committee, for the DS
Smith Kaysersberg division. The outcome of
the results for the financial year 2005/06 means
that no bonus is payable to Mr Thorne and 
Mr Morris and 36% of salary to Mr Loison.
The Committee reviewed the bonus
arrangements for the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director. The weak paper
market and the substantial rises in energy and
polymer costs have created a very challenging
environment for the Company. Since these
conditions are likely to continue, the Directors
are considering various strategic options to
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 37
enable it to deliver a marked improvement in
performance and, over time, better returns to
shareholders. The Board believes that those
individuals are key to the delivery of the
Company’s strategic objectives and that it is
important to incentivise them and retain them
appropriately. The Committee was also aware
that the existing bonus potential at 60% of
salary had fallen significantly behind the market.
Therefore, for the financial year 2006/07, 
the maximum bonus for the Group Chief
Executive and the Group Finance Director 
will be 100% and 75% of basic salary
respectively. One-third of the bonus will be
based on profit before tax, one-third on return
on capital employed and one-third on three
strategic targets determined by the Committee.
No bonus is payable in respect of profit before
tax unless the results are better than those
achieved in 2005/06 and full bonus will
require a greater degree of out-performance 
of budget than previously. The return on
capital targets will be equivalently stretching.
The first 25% of salary worth of bonus will be
payable in cash, with the excess split equally
between cash and deferred shares. The deferred
shares will vest three years after they are
awarded. At that point, the Director will
receive the shares and a payment equal to 
the value of dividends payable on the vested
shares during the deferral period.
If the Director ceases employment with the
Group during the deferral period, he will lose
his right to the shares unless he is a defined
‘good leaver’ or the Remuneration Committee
considers that vesting is appropriate in the
circumstances. The shares will vest in the event
of a change of control or voluntary winding-up.
The annual bonus maximum for the other 
most senior executives will generally continue
to be 60% of basic salary and will be based 
on an appropriate combination of Group profit
before tax, divisional profit and personal
performance, appropriate to the role.
Mr Loison’s annual bonus for 2006/07 will
once again be a maximum of 60% of basic
salary and will be based 40% on Group profit
before tax performance and 60% on targets, 
as determined by the Committee, for the 
DS Smith Kaysersberg division. Any payment 
due will be pro-rated from 1 May 2006 to 
30 September 2006, when he will be retiring.
The annual bonus scheme is not contractual
and bonuses under the scheme are not eligible
for inclusion in the calculation of the
participating Executive Directors’ pension
scheme benefits. As far as practicable, the
scheme has been extended to divisional
executives. However, their bonus schemes 
are based on differing criteria relating to the
operating performance targets of the division
in which they are employed.
(g) Long-term incentives
Executive Directors and other senior executives
are eligible to receive grants of options under
an Executive Share Option Scheme and awards
of shares under a Long-Term Incentive Plan 
on a phased basis. 
The individual grant limit under each Plan is
100% of salary per annum. However, in order
to ensure that the aggregate award levels
executives receive under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option
Scheme are not excessive, in cases where
executives are granted awards under both
schemes in the same year, the maximum
awards for the most senior executives under
each scheme will not exceed 75% of salary
worth of shares, unless there are exceptional
circumstances such as a high-level recruitment
or promotion, in which case the annual limit
will be 100% of salary worth of shares under
each scheme. During the financial year
2005/06, the Executive Directors received a
grant of options over shares worth 75% of
salary and an award under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan of the same amount. The
Committee currently intends to operate 
the same policy in 2006/07. 
Senior executives are expected to retain in
shares half of the after-tax gains on the vesting
of Long-Term Incentive Plan awards until they
have built up a shareholding equal to 100% of
salary in the case of Executive Directors and
50% in the case of other senior executives.
(i) Executive Share Option Scheme
Executive Directors and other senior
executives are eligible to receive grants 
of approved and unapproved options. 
The exercise of any option granted under
this Scheme is subject to the achievement
of long-term performance conditions. The
target for future options granted will be that
the growth in the Company’s normalised
earnings per share must match or exceed
the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index
plus an average of 3% per annum over the
three year period following grant, with no
retesting facility. The base financial year
for the purposes of measuring earnings 
per share growth will be the financial year
prior to the grant date. Normally, no part 
of the option may be exercised unless the
performance target has been achieved.
Following the introduction of IFRS,
performance will be based on adjusted
earnings per share as disclosed in the
Annual Report, except that the Committee
may adjust this figure in exceptional
circumstances where this is appropriate.
(ii) Long-Term Incentive Plan
The key features of the plan are that:
• awards will be made to selected
Executive Directors and other senior
executives over shares in the Company;
• performance will be measured over a
single period of three financial years;
• awards will vest based on the Company’s
total shareholder return (being the
increase in share price and the value 
of reinvested dividends) compared 
to a comparator group of companies. 
The Committee has determined that 
the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index
(excluding investment trusts) should be
the comparator group for initial awards;
• if the Company’s total shareholder 
return is ranked at the upper quartile of 
the group or higher, the full award will
vest reducing on a straight-line basis 
to 30% of the award vesting for median
performance. None of the award vests 
for below median performance;
• additionally, no awards will vest,
irrespective of total shareholder return
performance, unless the Company’s
earnings per share growth matches or
exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices
Index over the three year period. For 
this purpose, following the introduction 
of IFRS, the earnings per share growth
will be based on adjusted earnings per
share as disclosed in the Annual Report,
except that the Committee may adjust this
figure in exceptional circumstances where
this is appropriate. 38 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Remuneration Report
continued
The Executives’ long-term incentives,
therefore, take into account the Company’s
absolute share price performance (via the 
grant of market value share options), its
relative performance (via awards under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan, based on total
shareholder return) and its underlying financial
performance (via the earnings per share
performance condition that applies to share
options and awards under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan). The Committee currently
considers that this will provide for the 
most robust assessment of the Company’s
long-term performance.
The earnings per share figures are derived
from the audited accounts and the verification
of the calculation of earnings per share 
growth as well as the total shareholder return
calculation will be performed by New Bridge
Street Consultants LLP, in their capacity 
as advisers to the Committee. During the
transition to international accounting
standards, the Committee will ensure 
that a consistent basis is used to measure
earnings per share performance. 
The interests of the Directors in the share
capital of the Company and details of options
granted to date under the Executive Share
Option Scheme and awards made under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan are shown on 
pages 40 and 41 respectively.
(h) Beneﬁts in kind
Mr Thorne has the provision of a company 
car and a driver and free fuel. Mr Morris
receives a car allowance. Mr Thorne and 
Mr Morris both receive unapproved life 
cover, permanent health insurance and private
medical cover. Mr Loison receives from 
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. life cover, 
a car allowance, free fuel, private medical
cover and his utility and telephone bills are
also paid for by DS Smith Kaysersberg.
(i) Pensions
Mr Thorne and Mr Morris participate in a
funded contributory defined benefit pension
scheme with death in service cover. Subject 
to the variations mentioned below, the Group
provides pension benefits for UK-based
Executive Directors on retirement at their
normal pension age of 60 based on an accrual
rate of one thirtieth with reference to basic
salary less a deduction equal to the basic State
pension. This is subject to a maximum pension
of two-thirds of their final pensionable pay.
As far as possible, the benefit is provided
through the Approved Group Pension 
Scheme, in which other employees of the
Group participate. In the case of Mr Thorne,
whose benefits are subject to a Scheme
specific earnings cap (which was introduced
on 6 April 2006 when the Government’s
simplification regulations came in), the
Company has given a promise to provide 
the balance through a non tax-approved
unfunded arrangement. The total accumulated
unfunded provision at 30 April 2006 is 
£4.7 million (2004/05: £4.2 million), 
£1.3 million of which relates to Mr Thorne.
In the case of other appointed UK-based
Executive Directors, the Company’s normal
policy under the rules of the Approved 
Group Pension Scheme in relation to earnings
above the Scheme specific earnings cap 
is to provide compensation by way of a cash
supplement, rather than by way of a funded 
or unfunded arrangement. Accordingly, 
Mr Morris receives a cash supplement 
of £48,000 per annum. This payment 
is not pensionable and is not considered 
as salary for the purpose of calculating any 
bonus payment. 
Life cover of four times basic salary 
is provided under the Approved Group 
Pension Scheme on death in service in
addition to spouses’ pensions of two-thirds 
of the members’ prospective pensions plus
dependants’ benefits. For those UK-based
Executive Directors whose benefits are
restricted by the Scheme specific earnings 
cap, optional additional life cover is available.
Spouses’ pensions on death after retirement
are two thirds of the members’ pensions,
before any reduction for early retirement 
or commutation of pension for cash.
Pensions in payment from the Approved
Group Pension Scheme are increased 
annually in line with the increase in the UK
Retail Prices Index, subject to a maximum
guaranteed increase of 5% each year, for
pensionable service to May 2005 and 2.5%
each year for service after May 2005, with the
possibility of further discretionary increases.
There is no allowance in the transfer value
calculation basis for such discretionary
increases or other discretionary benefits. 
Most members, including UK-based Executive
Directors, contribute to the Approved Group
Pension Scheme at the rate of 9% of their
pensionable pay (increased from 7.5% with
effect from 1 May 2006) subject to a maximum,
for those affected, of 15% of the Scheme
specific earnings cap. 
Members have the option of paying 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs).
Neither the contributions nor the resulting
benefits are included in the table on page 42. 
Mr Loison participates in a funded defined
benefit pension scheme, which does not
require an employee contribution. The Group
provides pension benefits for Mr Loison at his
normal pension age of 65 based on an accrual
rate of one fortieth with reference to final
average salary equal to the average of the 
last full five years’ annual salaries preceding
retirement, less any offset pensions. 
This benefit is provided as a supplementary
arrangement to the mandatory national
programme, which operates on a pay-as-you
go basis and supplements social security
benefits. Benefits under these arrangements
are dependent on salary progression during 
an individual’s career. 
Following the introduction of the UK
Government’s simplification regulations 
with effect from 6 April 2006 under the
Finance Act 2004, the Principal Employer 
has agreed with the Trustee the changes to 
the Approved Group Pension Scheme rules 
in response to the legislation. In particular, a
Scheme specific notional earnings cap will be
retained. As there is no longer a requirement
for pension schemes to provide an AVC
facility, the scheme is closing this facility to
new AVC contributors on or after 1 June 2006.
AVCs can be facilitated via the Group’s Saver
Plus arrangement. 
(j) Service contracts 
and compensation
The Committee’s general policy is that 
the notice periods for Executive Directors
appointed in future will not exceed one year,
although on appointment it may be necessary
in exceptional cases to offer a longer initial
period which reduces to one year or less after
a specific date. In addition, service contracts
for newly appointed directors will not
normally include liquidated damages DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 39
provisions. Instead, the payment of any sums
due on the termination of employment by 
the Company will be determined pursuant to
general contractual principles, and with full
recognition of a Director’s duty to mitigate 
his loss. 
The service contract for Mr Thorne is dated 
28 February 2001 and expires when he reaches
his normal retirement age of 60. It may be
terminated by 12 months’ notice by the
Company, and by Mr Thorne. The Company
may terminate the contract with immediate
effect, in which case it must make a payment
equating to 12 months’ basic salary, plus an
equal payment in respect of the loss of his
contractual benefits. The service contract for
Mr Morris is dated 5 November 2002 and
expires when he reaches his normal retirement
age of 60. It may be terminated by 12 months’
notice by the Company, and by Mr Morris.
The Company may terminate the contract with
immediate effect, in which case it must make a
payment equal to 12 months’ basic salary, plus
an equal payment in respect of the loss of his
contractual benefits. The service contract for
Mr Loison is dated 9 December 2003. This is 
in addition to his employment contract with
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. (a wholly
owned French subsidiary of the Company),
dated 22 March 1994. The contract with the
Company is terminable by the Company
giving 12 months’ notice or by Mr Loison
giving six months’ notice. The contract 
with DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. is also
terminable by that company giving 12 months’
notice or Mr Loison giving six months’ notice. 
(k) Policy on external appointments
Executive Directors are allowed to accept
external appointments as a non-Executive
Director of up to two other companies provided
that these are not with competing companies
and are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
In normal circumstances, the Group Chief
Executive may not accept more than one
external appointment. Executive Directors are
normally allowed to retain the fees paid from
these appointments. Currently no Executive
Director has an external appointment.
(l) Fees for non-Executive Directors
The remuneration for non-Executive Directors
consists of annual fees for their services as
members of the Board and, where relevant, 
for their work on selected Committees. Non-
Executive Directors, other than the Chairman,
have letters of appointment for a term of three
years whereupon they are normally renewed
but for no more than three terms in aggregate.
Mr Piette has a rolling 12 month letter of
appointment from the Company. Their
respective dates of appointment are shown 
on page 5.
It was announced on 8 March 2006 that the
Chairman would retire from the Board on 
31 December 2006, having reached the age 
of 70 and his letter of appointment will come
to an end on that date.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible 
for pension scheme membership and do not
participate in any of the Group’s annual bonus,
share option or other incentive arrangements. 40 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Remuneration Report
(m) Directors’ emoluments (auditable)
Pension Pension
Salary/ Annual Pension 2006 2005 contributions contributions
fees bonus Beneﬁts supplement total total 2006 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
A P Hichens 169 – 25 – 194 188 – –
Chief Executive
A D Thorne 466 0 25 – 491 547 16 15
J-P Loison 258 92 10 – 360 352 – –
Finance Director
G M Morris 263 0 20 46 329 354 8 6
Non-Executives
R G Beeston 49 – – – 49 47 – –
C J Bunker 46 – – – 46 40 – –
P M Johnson 39 – – – 39 42 – –
R E C Marton 39 – – – 39 37 – –
D R Piette 44 – – – 44 41 – –
Total 1,373 92 80 46 1,591 1,648 24 21
Mr Morris is subject to the Scheme speciﬁc earnings cap and therefore he received an additional non-pensionable payment during the year.
Mr Loison’s salary and beneﬁts in kind from DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. are paid in euros and have been converted to sterling at the
average exchange rate for the year.
(n) Directors’ interests in share options (auditable)
Directors’ interests in share options over ordinary shares are as follows:
Options Options Options 
Options granted exercised lapsed Options Dates
held at during during during held at Exercise from which Expiry
Name of Director 30 April 2005 the year the year the year 30 April 2006 price (p) exercisable date
A D Thorne 428,880 – 428,880 – 0 139.89 2 Mar 04 1 Mar 11
215,834 – 215,834 – 0 138.96 27 Jul 04 26 Jul 11
243,979 – – – 243,979 135.23 26 Jul 05 25 Jul 12
241,245 –– – 241,245 149.22 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
189,850 – –– 189,850 158.00 29 Jul 07 28 Jul 14
– 207,500 – – 207,500 159.00 2 Aug 08 1 Aug 15
J-P Loison 88,415 – – – 88,415 169.62 30 Jul 00 29 Jul 07
61,313 – – – 61,313 187.94 31 Jul 01 30 Jul 08
9,515 – – – 9,515 167.12 30 Jul 02 29 Jul 09
93,751 – – – 93,751 155.08 5 Oct 02 4 Oct 09
93,547 – – – 93,547 159.85 31 Jul 03 30 Jul 10
124,497 – 124,497 – 0 139.37 27 Jul 04 26 Jul 11
128,988 – –– 128,988 151.53 26 Jul 05 25 Jul 12
142,779 – – – 142,779 148.72 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
113,800 – – – 113,800 157.00 29 Jul 07 28 Jul 14
– 119,200 – – 119,200 153.00 2 Aug 08 1 Aug 15
G M Morris 161,152 – – – 161,152 142.69 18 Dec 05 17 Dec 12
154,129 –– – 154,129 149.22 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
112,950 – – – 112,950 158.00 29 Jul 07 28 Jul 14
– 116,950 – – 116,950 159.00 2 Aug 08 1 Aug 15
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 April 2006 was 149.25p and the range during the year was 135.25p to 183.75p.
Aggregate gains made by Directors on exercise of share options in the year were £265,822.64 (2004/05: £nil). The price of an ordinary
share on 25 January 2006, when the options were exercised, was 174.1p. 
All options will be exercisable from the dates stated above, subject to them satisfying the performance target stated on page 37.
Remuneration Report
continued (o) Directors’ interests under the Restricted Share Plan (auditable)
The Restricted Share Plan ceased to be operated with effect from the ﬁnancial year 2004/05. Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan
are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards Interests
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price under
the Plan at made crystallised Date of on date of at date of scheme at Exercisable Expiry
Executive Directors 30 April 2005 during year in year award award (p) exercise (p) 30 April 2006 from date
A D Thorne 7,705 – 7,705 1 Aug 01 157.0 155.8 0 1 Aug 04 31 Jul 08
71,774 – – – – – 71,774 1 Aug 06 31 Jul 10
43,610 – – – – – 43,610 2 Aug 07 1 Aug 11
J-P Loison 19,140 – 19,140 1 Aug 01 157.0 167.0 0 1 Aug 04 31 Jul 08
21,196 – 21,196 1 Aug 02 146.0 167.0 0 1 Aug 05 31 Jul 09
42,349 – – – – – 42,349 1 Aug 06 31 Jul 10
58,189 – – – – – 58,189 2 Aug 07 1 Aug 11
G M Morris 28,219 – – – – – 28,219 1 Aug 06 31 Jul 10
25,948 – – – – – 25,948 2 Aug 07 1 Aug 11
The exercise price is £1 in total, the grant being given in relation to the deferred bonus for the years ended 2000/01, 2001/02, 2002/03
and 2003/04 under the Restricted Share Plan.
(p) Directors’ interests under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (auditable)
The Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in September 2004 and is described in more
detail on page 37. Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards Interests 
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price under Vesting date if
the Plan at made crystallised Date on date at date scheme at performance
Executive Directors 30 April 2005 during year in year of award of award (p) of vesting (p) 30 April 2006 conditions met
A D Thorne 216,039 – – 14 Sep 04 152.7 – 216,039 14 Sep 07
– 210,191 – 28 Jul 05 157.0 – 210,191 28 Jul 08
J-P Loison 116,530 – – 14 Sep 04 152.7 – 116,530 14 Sep 07
– 116,164 – 28 Jul 05 157.0 – 116,164 28 Jul 08
G M Morris 121,767 – – 14 Sep 04 152.7 – 121,767 14 Sep 07
– 118,471 – 28 Jul 05 157.0 – 118,471 28 Jul 08
(q) Directors’ interests in shares
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company were as shown below.
30 April 2005 30 April 2006
Name of Director Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial
A P Hichens 462,000 – 462,000 –
A D Thorne 75,447 – 208,884 –
J-P Loison 16,598 – 77,364 –
G M Morris 12,698 – 12,698 –
R G Beeston 30,000 – 30,000 –
C J Bunker 10,000 – 10,000 –
P M Johnson 30,000 – 230,000 –
R E C Marton 40,000 – 70,000 –
D R Piette – – – –
There have been no changes to the shareholdings set out above between the ﬁnancial year-end and the date of the report.
It is currently intended that any ordinary shares required to fulﬁl entitlements under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Restricted Share 
Plan will be provided by the David S Smith Group General Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’), which buys shares on the market to do so. 
The Trust will also be used to fulﬁl certain entitlements under the Executive Share Option Scheme (along with new issue shares for other
entitlements). As beneﬁciaries under the Trust, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the Trust which, 
at 30 April 2006, amounted to 2,610,110 ordinary shares.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 41 42 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Remuneration Report
(r) Directors’ pension entitlements (auditable)
The following Executive Directors were members of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes provided by the Group during the year, with death in service
cover. Pensions entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows:
Transfer value 
of net increase Total change
Increase in accrual Transfer value Transfer value in value during
Employee Gross increase in accrued Total accrued over period of accrued of accrued period (net of 
contributions paid in accrued pension net pension at (net of Director’s pension at pension at Director’s
during the pension of inﬂation 30 April 2006 contribution) 30 April 2006 30 April 2005 contribution)
period (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Name of Director £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
A D Thorne 15,878 19,309 17,718 78,235 274,703 1,282,937 866,845 400,214
G M Morris 7,939 3,689 3,457 12,267 41,625 175,877 109,183 58,755
J-P Loison – 2,527 1,763 40,710 23,486 542,200 473,389 68,811
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of net increase (4) represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption
service terminated at the year-end. It is based on the accrued pension increase (2) after deducting the Directors’ contribution.
The change in transfer value (7) includes the effect of ﬂuctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company
and Directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the Directors’ contribution.
(s) Total shareholder return performance
The following graph illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return performance since 1 May 2001, in accordance with paragraph 4 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, relative to the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and, accordingly, this index is considered to be the most appropriate comparator group
for this purpose.
This graph looks at the value, by 30 April 2006, of £100 invested in Smith (DS) over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years compared with that 
of £100 invested in the FTSE Mid 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends.
On behalf of the Board
Bob Beeston
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 June 2006 
Remuneration Report
continued
50
100
150
200
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Total Shareholder Return 
Value £
Smith (DS)
FTSE Mid 250 Index Source: Thomson Financial DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 43
Directors’ Report
The Directors submit their Annual Report and
the audited financial statements for the financial
year ended 30 April 2006. The Directors’
statement as to disclosure of information 
to auditors, as required by Section 234ZA
of the Companies Act 1985 is on page 45.
Principal Activities and
Business Review
The Company acts as the holding company 
of a group, which, during 2005/06, was
engaged in the production of corrugated 
and plastic packaging and of paper, primarily
from recycled waste, and the distribution of
office products. A full review of the activities
during the financial year ended 30 April 2006
and future developments is given in the
Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s
Review and Business Review on pages 4 
to 32. The principal subsidiary undertakings
are listed in note 33 on page 86.
The information that fulfils the requirements
of the Business Review can be found in the
Business Review on pages 9 to 32, which are
incorporated in this report by reference. The
Business Review has been prepared to meet
the requirements for companies to provide an
enhanced Business Review in accordance with
the EU Accounts Modernisation Directive and
the March 2005 amendments to the UK’s 1985
Companies Act. 
Cautionary Statement
The purpose of the Annual Report is to
provide information to the members of the
Company. The Annual Report contains certain
forward-looking statements with respect to 
the operations, performance and financial
condition of the Group. By their nature, these
statements involve uncertainty since future
events and circumstances can cause results and
developments to differ from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be
construed as a profit forecast.
Results for the Year
The financial results are shown on pages 
48 to 97.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary
share was paid on 7 March 2006 and the
Directors recommend the final dividend be
maintained at 5.8p net per ordinary share,
making a total dividend to be paid for the 
year of 8.4p (2004/05: 8.4p) net per ordinary 
share. Subject to approval of shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
6 September 2006, the final dividend will be
paid on 19 September 2006 to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 
18 August 2006. The dividends per ordinary
share stated above are those actually paid 
or to be paid. Historical dividends per share 
have been restated for the bonus element
inherent in the 26 March 2004 rights issue 
in the Five Year Summary on page 98.
Share Capital
Pursuant to the Company’s employee share
option schemes, 1,780,682 ordinary shares 
of 10p each were issued during the year. No
shares pursuant to the Company’s employee
share option schemes were issued between 
30 April 2006 and 28 June 2006 inclusive. 
The Company has not utilised its authority 
to make market purchases of shares granted 
to it at the 2005 Annual General Meeting 
but will be seeking to renew such authority 
at this year’s meeting.
Substantial Shareholders
At 28 June 2006, the Company has been
informed of the following notifiable interests
in its issued ordinary share capital:
Ordinary shares held %
Prudential plc 16,708,775 4.27%
Legal & General
Group plc 15,125,894 3.87%
Henderson Global
Investors Ltd 13,938,743 3.57%
Dimensional Fund
Advisors Inc 11,944,196 3.06%
Acquisitions and Disposals
On 30 September 2005, the Group acquired
Timmermans NV, the largest office products
wholesaler in the Benelux region. The Group
paid £10.5 million as net consideration;
additional consideration of up to £2.8 million
is payable to the previous owners depending
on the performance of the business in future
financial periods. Goodwill of £2.8 million
arose on the acquisition.
In July 2005, the Group sold its Office Products
Manufacturing business, John Dickinson, for 
a loss of £1.7 million. In December 2005, the
Group sold its plastic coating and laminating
business in the Plastic Packaging segment,
BSK, for a loss of £2.6 million. Total proceeds
for the disposals in the year were £11.0 million.
In August 2004, the Group acquired BPB
Recycling, a recovered paper collection
business, from BPB plc for consideration 
of £9.4 million. Negative goodwill of 
£0.2 million arose.
Research and Development
The Group recognises the importance 
of continuing to invest in research and
development. It is Group policy to develop
new product specifications commensurate 
with environmental needs and packaging
solutions required by customers. Research is
also conducted into ways to improve product
quality and to find more cost-efficient methods
of production and distribution. Research and
development is conducted within divisional
operations and expenditure is not significant.
Directors
The biographies of the present Directors are
on page 5. All the present Directors served
throughout the year. Mr A P Hichens, who 
has been Chairman since September 1999, 
will retire from the Board at the end of
December 2006, having reached the age 
of 70. Mr P M Johnson, who has been a non-
Executive Director of the Company since
December 1999, will become Chairman on 
1 January 2007. Mr J P Loison will retire from
the Board on 30 September 2006. Other than
as previously disclosed in this Report and in
respect of existing service agreements, no
Director, either during or at the end of the
financial year, has been materially interested
in any significant contract or arrangement 
in relation to the Group’s business.
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association require that all
Directors who are subject to retirement by
rotation retire every three years, but they are
eligible to submit themselves for re-election
by the shareholders. The Directors retiring 
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting 
on 6 September 2006 are Mr P M Johnson, 
Mr R E C Marton, Mr G M Morris and 
Mr D R Piette but, being eligible, they offer
themselves for re-election at the Meeting.
Following formal performance evaluation, 
the individual performance of the Directors
  44 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Directors’ Report
continued
offering themselves for re-election continues
to be effective and they continue to
demonstrate commitment to the role.
Directors’ Interests in Shares
The interests of the Directors and their
immediate families in the ordinary shares of
10p each of the Company, including options
granted but not yet exercised under the
Executive Share Option Schemes, Restricted
Share Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan,
were as shown in the tables on pages 40 
and 41.
Employee Involvement and
Communications
The Group is committed to effective employee
communications to promote the understanding
and involvement of all its employees in the
Group’s business objectives and performance.
Communications and personnel policies have
been developed to reflect the philosophy 
of operating management. Information is
regularly communicated by briefings and
newsletters. The Group operates a European
Works Council, with representatives drawn
from across the entire workforce in the 
EU countries in which the Group operates.
Meetings are held to provide an exchange 
of transnational information and consultation
with employees. At each meeting,
presentations are made on the Group’s
business strategy, financial results, health 
and safety and environmental performance. 
In 2005, the Group established divisional
Consultation Forums for its UK employees.
These bodies have strengthened the process 
of information exchange, consultation and
representation between the Group and its
workforce. Business decisions concerning
capital investment, employment and training
take into account the Group’s public and 
local responsibilities. The Group supports 
the involvement of its operations in local
community activities.
Equal Opportunities
The Group wholeheartedly supports 
the principle and achievement of equal
opportunities in employment and its policies are
designed to provide such equality irrespective
of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual
orientation, age or disability. Every possible
step will be taken to ensure that individuals 
are treated equally and fairly. Depending upon
their skills and abilities, the Group applies the
same criteria to disabled persons as it does to
other employees and, if necessary, retraining 
is offered to any of its employees who develop 
a disability during such employment.
Pension Fund
The Group has five UK pension arrangements: 
two defined benefit schemes (which are closed
to new entrants), one defined contribution
scheme, one Group personal pension plan 
and a statutory Stakeholder arrangement. The
defined contribution scheme was introduced
for UK employees joining the Group on or
after 1 May 2005. 
The investment of the assets of the various
arrangements are managed on a discretionary
basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional
Investment Management Limited, Majedie 
Asset Management Limited, Pacific Investment
Management Company, Barclays Global
Investors Limited and Legal and General
Investment Management Limited for the defined
benefit schemes. The defined contribution
scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering
members a range of investments with Axa Sun
Life plc and external investment fund managers,
selected by the Scheme’s trustees. The Group
personal pension plan is a contract-based
arrangement offering members a range of
investments with Norwich Union Life and
external investment fund managers, and the
Stakeholder arrangement is provided through
Investment Solutions Limited. All such assets
are held independently from the Group. The
trustees of each pension scheme send an Annual
Report to the members of that scheme. The
Trustee Companies, where applicable, have
Investment Sub Committees, which have been
established in line with guidelines recommended
in the Myners Report.
Health and Safety
The Group recognises its responsibilities and
continues to promote all aspects of health and
safety in the interests of its employees and
members of the public. A Health and Safety
Policy Statement has been approved by 
the Board.
Payment to Suppliers
Although the Company does not follow any
formal code or standard on payment practice,
the Company agrees terms and conditions in
the UK with each supplier, which include
terms of payment. The Company pays each
supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms
and conditions of the order being satisfied by
such supplier. The aggregate amount owed by
the Company to trade creditors at 30 April
2006 was equivalent to 18 days of purchases
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Charitable and Political Donations
The Group contributed £84,000 (2004/05:
£128,000) to charities in the UK. In 2004/05
John Dickinson Stationery, which was sold 
in July 2005, had contributed a substantial
donation to a charity as a result of a cause-
related marketing campaign. No payments
were made to political parties. Donations were
made by operating divisions to support their
local communities. The Group also supported
a number of other charities across a range 
of causes.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting of
the Company to be held on 6 September 2006,
together with explanations of the Resolutions
to be proposed, appears at the back of this
Annual Report.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as
auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to determine their remuneration will
be put to the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Carolyn Cattermole
Secretary 
28 June 2006 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 45
Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities in Respect 
of the Annual Report and 
the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group and
Company financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare Group and Company financial
statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the Group
financial statements in accordance with IFRS,
as adopted by the EU, and have elected to
prepare the Company financial statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required
by law and IFRS, as adopted by the EU, to
present fairly the financial position and the
performance of the Group; the Companies 
Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial
statements that references in the relevant part
of that Act to financial statements giving a true
and fair view are references to their achieving
a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are
required by law to give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company
financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; 
• for the Group financial statements, assert
whether these have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU; 
• for the Company financial statements, 
assert whether applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the Group and the Company
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to
ensure that its financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985. They have
general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the
Directors are also responsible for preparing a
Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and
Corporate Governance Report that comply
with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK
governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each Director confirms that:
(a) so far as he is aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the Company’s
auditors are unaware; and 
(b)he has taken all the steps he ought to have
taken as a Director in order to make himself
aware of any relevant audit information and
to establish that the Company’s auditors are
aware of that information. 46 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of DS Smith Plc
We have audited the Group and Company
financial statements (the “financial
statements”) of DS Smith Plc for the year
ended 30 April 2006 which comprise the
Group Income Statement, the Group and
Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement 
of Cash Flows, the Group Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense and the
related notes. These financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies
set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with section
235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters
we are required to state to them in an auditors’
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities
of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the Annual Report and the Group financial
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, 
and for preparing the Company financial
statements and the Remuneration Report 
in accordance with applicable law and 
UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out 
in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
on page 45.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial
statements and the part of the Remuneration
Report to be audited in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the
financial statements give a true and fair view
and whether the financial statements and the
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited
have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given 
in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
financial statements. We also report to you if, in
our opinion, the Company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding Directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance
Statement reflects the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We 
are not required to consider whether the
Board’s statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and 
control procedures.
We read the other information contained 
in the Annual Report and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the financial statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgments made by
the Directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as 
to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial
statements and the part of the Remuneration
Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or other irregularity or error. In forming 
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information 
in the financial statements and the part of 
the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
Group’s affairs as at 30 April 2006 and 
of its profit for the year then ended;
• the Company financial statements give a 
true and fair view, in accordance with UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
of the state of the parent Company’s affairs
as at 30 April 2006;
• the financial statements and the part of the
Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report
is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor 
London 
28 June 2006
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 47
Contents of the Financial Statements and Notes
48 Consolidated Income Statement
49 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Notes to the Financial Statements
52 1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
57 2. Segment reporting
59 3. Group operating proﬁt
60 4. Exceptional items
5. Financing income and costs
61 6. Personnel expenses
7. Income tax expense
62 8. Earnings per share
9. Dividends
63 10. Intangible assets
64 11. Property, plant and equipment
66 12. Investment in associates
13. Other investments
67 14. Inventories
15. Trade and other receivables
16. Trade and other payables
17. Net debt
69 18. Cash and cash equivalents
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
72 20. Financial instruments
75 21. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
76 22. Provisions
77 23. Capital and reserves
78 24. Post-retirement beneﬁts
81 25. Share-based payment expense
83 26. Cash generated from operations
84 27. Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to
movement in net debt
28. Operating leases
29. Capital commitments 
30. Contingencies
85 31. Acquisitions and disposals
32. Related parties
86 33. DS Smith Group companies
87 34. Subsequent events
35. Interest in joint venture
36. Explanation of the transition to IFRS
92 Company Balance Sheet Prepared 
in Accordance with UK GAAP
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet
Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP
93 1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
94 2. Pensions
95 3. Employee information
4. Tangible ﬁxed assets
5. Fixed asset investments
96 6. Debtors
7. Creditors
97 8. Provisions for liabilities and charges
9. Share capital
10. Reserves
11. Contingent liabilities 48 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 April 2006
Before After Before After
exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional
items items (note 4) items items items (note 4) items
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2 1,652.7 – 1,652.7 1,624.9 – 1,624.9
Cost of sales (1,243.0) (26.1) (1,269.1) (1,193.6) (1.6) (1,195.2)
Gross proﬁt 409.7 (26.1) 383.6 431.3 (1.6) 429.7
Operating expenses 3 (349.3) (16.3) (365.6) (348.7) (9.1) (357.8)
Operating proﬁt 2,3 60.4 (42.4) 18.0 82.6 (10.7) 71.9
Finance income 5 2.3 – 2.3 4.7 – 4.7
Finance costs 5 (14.6) – (14.6) (17.9) – (17.9)
Employment beneﬁt net ﬁnance income 24 1.2 – 1.2 1.1 – 1.1
Net ﬁnancing costs (11.1) – (11.1) (12.1) – (12.1)
Proﬁt after ﬁnancing costs 49.3 (42.4) 6.9 70.5 (10.7) 59.8
Share of proﬁt of associates 12 4.1 – 4.1 3.4 1.1 4.5
Proﬁt before income tax 53.4 (42.4) 11.0 73.9 (9.6) 64.3
Income tax (expense)/credit 7 (13.4) 7.7 (5.7) (17.6) 1.4 (16.2)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 40.0 (34.7) 5.3 56.3 (8.2) 48.1
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial period attributable to:
DS Smith Plc equity shareholders 38.9 (34.7) 4.2 55.3 (8.2) 47.1
Minority interest 1.1 – 1.1 1.0 – 1.0
Basic earnings per share (pence) 8 10.0p 1.1p 14.4p 12.2p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 8 10.0p 1.1p 14.3p 12.1p
Dividend per share 
– interim, paid (pence) 9 2.6p 2.6p
– ﬁnal, proposed (pence) 9 5.8p 5.8p 2006 2005
Note £m £m
Actuarial gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 24 54.4 (31.2)
Movements on deferred tax relating to actuarial (gains)/losses (16.5) 9.5
Currency translation differences, net of tax of £1.8m (2005: tax of £2.0m) 9.7 (0.3)
Changes in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedges, net of tax of £0.1m 0.2
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 47.8 (22.0)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial period 23 5.3 48.1
Total recognised income and expense attributable to the equity
shareholders and minority interest relating to the ﬁnancial year 53.1 26.1
Changes in accounting policy – adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, from 1 May 2005, net of tax of £0.6m* (1.5)
Total recognised income and expense since the last ﬁnancial statements 51.6
Total recognised income and expense relating to the ﬁnancial year attributable to:
DS Smith Plc equity shareholders 52.0 25.1
Minority interest 1.1 1.0
* The £1.5m net charge on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 was charged as follows: to the hedging reserve – £0.5m; to retained earnings – £1.0m
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 49
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 30 April 2006 50 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 30 April 2006
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 195.4 190.9
Property, plant and equipment 11 536.1 559.3
Investments in associates 12 29.2 22.1
Other investments 13 0.5 10.1
Deferred tax assets 21 24.0 35.6
Other receivables 15 2.5 1.0
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 1.4
Total non-current assets 789.1 819.0
Current assets
Inventories 14 163.3 161.7
Other investments 13 0.1 –
Income tax receivable 4.8 1.0
Trade and other receivables 15 347.2 358.4
Cash and cash equivalents 18 60.4 58.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 3.7
Total current assets 579.5 579.9
Total assets 1,368.6 1,398.9
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (264.9) (294.1)
Post-retirement beneﬁts 24 (50.3) (114.8)
Other creditors 16 (3.6) (2.4)
Provisions 22 (2.8) (7.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (76.3) (78.7)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 (25.0)
Total non-current liabilities (422.9) (497.2)
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 18 (1.5) (17.6)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (7.7) (7.8)
Trade and other payables 16 (355.3) (335.5)
Income tax liabilities (21.0) (18.7)
Provisions 22 (16.7) (2.3)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 (2.0)
Total current liabilities (404.2) (381.9)
Total liabilities (827.1) (879.1)
Net assets 541.5 519.8
Equity
Issued capital 23 39.1 38.9
Share premium 23 259.4 257.0
Reserves 23 233.6 215.6
DS Smith Plc shareholders’ equity 532.1 511.5
Minority interest 23 9.4 8.3
Total equity 541.5 519.8
Approved by the Board on 28 June 2006 and signed on its behalf by
A D Thorne, Director
G M Morris, Director
The notes on pages 52 to 91 form part of these accounts. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 51
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 30 April 2006
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Cash generated from operations 26 138.2 139.7
Interest received 0.8 4.7
Interest paid (12.8) (18.0)
Income tax paid (13.5) (23.7)
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 112.7 102.7
Investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 31 (10.5) (11.7)
Divestment of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of 31 11.0 –
Capital expenditure (62.7) (53.6)
Proceeds from the sale of assets 9.7 5.2
Proceeds from the sale of associate and other non-current investments 3.5 1.5
Cash ﬂows from investing activities (49.0) (58.6)
Financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 2.6 2.6
Purchase of own shares – (2.1)
Repayments of borrowings (17.2) (3.7)
Repayment of ﬁnance lease obligations (0.9) (0.9)
Dividends paid 9 (32.6) (31.6)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities (48.1) (35.7)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 15.6 8.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 41.2 31.1
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 2.1 1.7
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 18 58.9 41.2 52 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements
have been prepared and approved by the
Directors in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted
by the EU (‘adopted IFRSs’). The Company
has elected to prepare its parent Company
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with UK
GAAP; these are presented on pages 92
to 97.
These are the Group’s ﬁrst consolidated
ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance
with adopted IFRSs. IFRS 1, First-Time
Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards, has been applied in
their preparation. An explanation of how
the transition to adopted IFRSs has affected
the reported ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial
performance and cash ﬂows of the Group
is provided in note 36.
The ﬁnancial statements are presented
in sterling in millions, rounded to one
decimal place, unless otherwise indicated.
They are prepared on the historical cost
basis except that assets and liabilities 
of certain ﬁnancial instruments, deﬁned
beneﬁt pension plans and share-based
payments are stated at their fair value.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements
requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect
the application of policies and reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, income
and expenses. Judgements made by
management in the application of adopted
IFRSs that have a signiﬁcant effect on the
ﬁnancial statements and estimates with
a signiﬁcant risk of material adjustment in 
the next year are discussed in accounting
policy t.
With the exception of IAS 32, Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation,
and IAS 39, Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement, the
accounting policies set out below have
been applied consistently to all periods
presented in these consolidated ﬁnancial
statements and in preparing an opening
IFRS balance sheet at 1 May 2004 for 
the purposes of the transition to adopted
IFRSs. The accounting policies have been
applied consistently by all Group entities.
IFRS 1 exemptions
IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards, permits
those companies preparing accounts 
under adopted IFRSs for the ﬁrst time 
to take certain exemptions from the full
requirements of adopted IFRSs in the
transition period. DS Smith Plc has 
taken the following key exemptions:
(i) Business combinations: The Group 
has chosen not to apply IFRS 3,
Business Combinations, retrospectively
to business combinations that took
place before the transition date.
(ii) Share-based payments: The Group has
chosen to apply IFRS 2, Share-Based
Payments, only to awards granted after 
7 November 2002 and not yet vested
at 1 May 2004.
(iii)Financial instruments: The Group 
has taken the exemption not to restate
comparatives for IAS 32, Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation,
and IAS 39, Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement. 
(iv)Cumulative translation differences: 
The Group has adopted the exemption
allowing previous cumulative translation
differences on the Group’s foreign
currency net investments and related
hedges to be set to zero at the
transition date.
(v) Revaluation at deemed cost: The
revalued amount of previously revalued
assets has been taken to be deemed
cost at the transition date.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries 
are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements from the date that control
commences until the date that control
ceases. Intra-group balances and any
unrealised gains and losses or income 
and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions, are eliminated in preparing
the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(ii) Associates
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements
include the Group’s share of the total
recognised gains and losses of associates
on an equity accounted basis, from the date
that signiﬁcant inﬂuence commences until
the date that signiﬁcant inﬂuence ceases. 
(iii) Joint ventures
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements
include the Group’s proportionate share 
of its joint ventures’ assets, liabilities,
revenue and expenses with items of 
a similar nature on a line-by-line basis, 
from the date that joint control commences
until the date that joint control ceases.
(c) Revenue
(i) Goods sold and services rendered
Revenue comprises the fair value for the
sale of goods and services, net of value-
added-tax, rebates and discounts and 
after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from the sale of goods is
recognised in the income statement 
when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards 
of ownership have been transferred to 
the buyer. 
(ii) Government grants
A government grant is recognised in the
balance sheet initially as deferred income
when there is a reasonable assurance that
it will be received and that the Group will
comply with the conditions attaching to 
it. Grants that compensate the Group for
expenses incurred are offset against the
expenses in the same periods in which 
the expenses are incurred. 
(d) Dividends
Dividends attributable to the equity holders
of the Company declared during the year
are recognised directly in equity. 
(e) Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are
translated into sterling at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies at the
balance sheet date are translated into
sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling
at that date. Foreign exchange differences
arising on translation of monetary assets
and liabilities are recognised in the income
statement. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities that are measured in terms 
of historical cost in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rate 
at the date of the transaction. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 53
The assets and liabilities of all the Group
entities that have a functional currency
other than sterling are translated at the
closing exchange rate at the date of the
balance sheet. Income and expenses 
for each income statement are translated 
at average exchange rates (unless this
average is not a reasonable approximation
of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing
on the transaction dates, in which case
income and expenses are translated at the
date of the transactions). On consolidation,
exchange differences arising from the
translation of the net investment in foreign
entities, and of borrowings, and other
ﬁnancial instruments designated as hedges
of such investments, are recognised in the
translation reserve. On the disposal of
foreign currency entities, the cumulative
exchange difference recorded in the
translation reserve is taken to the income
statement as part of the gain or loss 
on disposal.
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted
for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill (positive and negative), 
arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures, represents
the difference between the cost of the
acquisition and the fair value of the 
net identiﬁable assets acquired. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated
impairment losses (refer to accounting 
policy h). The useful life of goodwill is
considered to be indeﬁnite. Goodwill 
is allocated to cash generating units 
and is tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill arising on an
acquisition is recognised directly 
in the income statement.
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities,
undertaken with the prospect of gaining
new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and
understanding, is recognised in the income
statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities,
whereby research ﬁndings are applied 
to a plan or design for the production of 
new or substantially improved products
and processes, is capitalised if the product
or process is technically and commercially
feasible and the Group has sufﬁcient
resources to complete development. 
The expenditure capitalised includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour and 
an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is
recognised in the income statement 
as an expense as incurred. Capitalised
development expenditure is stated at cost
less accumulated amortisation (see below)
and impairment losses (refer to accounting
policy h).
(iii) Computer software
Computer software that is integral to a
related item of hardware is included within
tangible ﬁxed assets. All other computer
software is treated as an intangible asset.
(iv) Intellectual property
Intellectual property is stated at cost 
less accumulated amortisation (see below)
and impairment losses (refer to accounting
policy h).
(v) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired
by the Group are stated at cost less
accumulated amortisation (see below) 
and impairment losses (refer to accounting
policy h). 
(vi) Amortisation
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding
goodwill) is charged to the income statement
on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of intangible assets unless such
lives are indeﬁnite. Intangible assets (other
than goodwill) are amortised from the date
they are available for use. The estimated
useful lives are as follows:
Intellectual property Up to 20 years
Computer software 3 – 5 years
Goodwill is systematically tested for
impairment at each balance sheet date.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment 
are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation (see below) and impairment
losses (refer to accounting policy h). The
cost of self-constructed assets includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour and 
an appropriate proportion of production
overheads. Where an item of property,
plant and equipment comprises major
components having different useful lives,
they are accounted for as separate items 
of property, plant and equipment.
The Group recognises in the carrying
amount of an item of property, plant and
equipment the cost of replacing part of
such an item when that cost is incurred 
if it is probable that the future economic
beneﬁts embodied within the item will ﬂow
to the Group and the cost of the item can
be measured reliably. All other costs are
recognised in the income statement as an
expense as incurred.
Depreciation is charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of each item 
of property, plant and equipment, and
major components that are accounted for
separately (or in the case of leased assets,
the lease period, if shorter). Land is not
depreciated. The estimated useful lives 
are as follows:
Freehold and long 
leasehold properties 10 – 50 years
Plant, machinery, ﬁxtures
and ﬁttings (including 
IT hardware) 3 – 20 years
Motor vehicles 3 – 5 years
(h) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s
assets, other than inventories (refer to
accounting policy k) and deferred tax
assets (refer to accounting policy s), are
reviewed at each balance sheet date to
determine whether there is any indication
of impairment. If any such indication 
exists, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated. An impairment loss is
recognised whenever the carrying 
amount of an asset or its cash-generating
unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised 
in the income statement. 
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s
assets is calculated as the value-in-use,
being the present value of expected future
cash ﬂows, using a pre-tax discount rate
that reﬂects the current assessment of the
time value of money, or the net selling 54 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
price, if greater. For an asset that does 
not generate largely independent cash
inﬂows, the recoverable amount is
determined for the cash-generating 
unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairment
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill
are not reversed. In respect of other 
assets, an impairment loss is reversed if
there has been a change in the estimates
used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to 
the extent that the asset’s carrying amount
does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortisation, if no
impairment loss had been recognised.
(i) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial
instruments, primarily interest rate, currency
and commodity swaps, to manage interest
rate, currency and commodity risks
associated with the Group’s underlying
business activities and the ﬁnancing of 
these activities. The Group has a policy not
to, and does not, undertake any trading
activity in these instruments. 
From 1 May 2005, such derivative
ﬁnancial instruments are initially
recognised at fair value on the date on
which a derivative contract is entered into
and are subsequently remeasured at fair
value. Derivatives are carried as assets
when the fair value is positive and as
liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are
accounted for as hedges when designated
as hedges at the inception of the contract
and when the ﬁnancial instruments provide
an effective hedge of the underlying risk.
Any gains or losses arising from the
hedging instruments are offset against 
the hedged items. 
For the purpose of hedge accounting,
hedges are classiﬁed as:
– fair value hedges when hedging the
exposure to changes in the fair value 
of a recognised asset or liability;
– cash ﬂow hedges when hedging
exposure to variability in cash ﬂows that
is either attributable to a particular risk
associated with a recognised asset or
liability or a highly probable forecast
transaction; or
– hedges of the net investment in a 
foreign entity.
Any gains or losses arising from changes
in the fair value of all other derivatives are
taken to the income statement. These may
arise from derivatives for which hedge
accounting is not applied because they 
are not effective as hedging instruments.
The treatment of gains and losses arising
from revaluing derivatives designated as
hedging instruments depends on the nature
of the hedging relationship, as follows:
Fair value hedges: the carrying amount 
of the hedged item is adjusted for gains 
or losses attributable to the risk being
hedged; the derivative is remeasured 
at fair value and gains and losses from
both are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge
accounting if the hedging instrument
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised,
the hedge no longer meets the criteria for
hedge accounting or the Group revokes
the designation.
Cash ﬂow hedges: the effective portion of
the gain or loss on the hedging instrument
is recognised directly in equity, while the
ineffective portion is recognised in the
income statement. Amounts taken to equity
are transferred to the income statement
when the hedged transaction affects proﬁt
or loss, such as when a forecast sale or
purchase occurs. Where the hedged item
is the cost of a non-ﬁnancial asset or
liability, the amounts taken to equity are
transferred to the initial carrying amount 
of the non-ﬁnancial asset or liability. 
If the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated or exercised without
replacement or rollover, the hedged
transaction ceases to be highly probable,
or if its designation as a hedge is revoked,
amounts previously recognised in equity
remain in equity until the forecast
transaction occurs and are transferred 
to the income statement or to the initial
carrying amount of a non-ﬁnancial asset
liability as above. If a forecast transaction
is no longer expected to occur, amounts
previously recognised in equity are
transferred to the income statement.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign
entity: the effective portion of the gain 
or loss on the hedging instrument is
recognised directly in equity, while the
ineffective portion is recognised in the
income statement. Amounts taken to 
equity are transferred to the income
statement when the foreign entity is sold.
The Group has taken the exemption in 
IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 
for the comparative period. The accounting
policy adopted for the period from 1 May
2004 to 30 April 2005, under UK GAAP,
was as follows:
– Financial instruments are accounted 
for as hedges at the inception of the
contracts and where the ﬁnancial
instrument provides an effective hedge of
the underlying risk. As a result any gains
or losses on foreign exchange contracts
are offset against any foreign exchange
gains and losses on the reliable ﬁnancial
assets and liabilities. Interest rate swaps
are not shown in the Group’s balance
sheet at 30 April 2005.
(j) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated 
at their cost less impairment losses (refer 
to accounting policy h).
(k) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost
and net realisable value. Net realisable
value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less the
estimated costs of completion and selling
expenses. The cost of inventories is based
on the ﬁrst-in ﬁrst-out principle and includes
expenditure incurred in acquiring the
inventories and bringing them to their
existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories
and work in progress, cost includes an
appropriate share of overheads based 
on normal operating capacity.
(l) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise 
cash balances and call deposits. Bank
overdrafts that are repayable on demand DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 55
and form an integral part of the Group’s
cash management are included as a
component of cash and cash equivalents for
the purpose of the statement of cash ﬂows.
(m) Treasury shares
When share capital recognised as 
equity is repurchased, the amount of the
consideration paid, including directly
attributable costs, is recognised as a
change in equity. Repurchased shares are
classiﬁed as treasury shares and presented
as a deduction from total equity.
(n) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised
initially at fair value, less attributable
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings
are stated at amortised cost with any
difference between cost and redemption
value being recognised in the income
statement over the period of the borrowings
on an effective interest basis.
(o) Employee beneﬁts
(i) Deﬁned contribution plans
Contributions to deﬁned contribution pension
plans are recognised as an expense in the
income statement as incurred.
(ii) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect 
of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is
calculated separately for each plan by
estimating the amount of future beneﬁt that
employees have earned in return for their
service in the current and prior periods;
that beneﬁt is discounted to determine 
the present value, and the fair value of 
any plan assets is deducted. The discount 
rate is the yield at balance sheet date on
AA credit rated bonds that have maturity
dates approximating to the duration of 
the Group’s obligations. The calculation 
is performed by a qualiﬁed actuary using
the projected unit method. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised
immediately in the statement of recognised
income and expense.
(iii) Long-term service beneﬁts
The Group’s net obligation in respect of 
long-term service beneﬁts, other than pension
plans, is the amount of future beneﬁt that
employees have earned in return for their
service in the current and prior periods. 
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates an equity-settled,
share-based compensation plan. The fair
value of the employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of the options is
recognised as an expense. The fair value
of the options granted is measured using 
a stochastic model, taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the
options were granted. The total amount 
to be expensed over the vesting period is
determined by reference to the fair value of
the options granted, excluding the impact
of any non-market vesting conditions. Non-
market vesting conditions are included in
assumptions about the number of options
that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity
revises its estimates of the number of
options that are expected to become
exercisable. It recognises the impact 
of the revision of original estimates, 
if any, in the income statement, and 
a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly
attributable transaction costs are credited
to share capital (nominal value) and share
premium when the options are exercised.
(p) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance
sheet when the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event, and it is probable
that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts 
will be required to settle the obligation. 
(q) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated 
at their cost.
(r) Leases
Property, plant and equipment acquired
under a lease that transfers substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership
to the Group are capitalised as tangible
ﬁxed assets. Lease payments are
apportioned between the ﬁnance charge
and the reduction of the outstanding
liability. The ﬁnance charge is allocated to
each period during the lease term so as to
produce a constant periodic rate of interest
on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Payments made under operating leases are
recognised in the income statement on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(s) Taxation
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the 
year comprises current and deferred 
tax. Income tax is recognised in the
income statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly 
to equity, in which case it is recognised 
in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable 
on the taxable income for the year, using
tax rates enacted at the balance sheet
date, and any adjustment to tax payable 
in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the
balance sheet liability method, providing
for temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and 
the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
The following temporary differences are 
not provided for: goodwill, the initial
recognition of assets or liabilities that 
affect neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt,
and differences relating to investments 
in subsidiaries to the extent that they will
probably not reverse in the foreseeable
future. The amount of deferred tax 
provided is based on the expected manner
of realisation or settlement of the carrying
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax
rates enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised 
only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable proﬁts will be 
available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets 
are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax 
beneﬁt will be realised.
(t) Critical accounting policies 
The application of the Group’s
accounting policies requires the
management of DS Smith Plc to 
make estimates and assumptions; 
these estimates and assumptions affect 
the reported assets and liabilities and
ﬁnancial result of the Group. Actual
outcomes could differ from the estimates 
and assumptions used.
The Group’s accounting policies that 
are most critical to an understanding  56 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
of the results and position of the Group,
and the judgements involved in their
application, are as follows:
(i) Impairments
When applying IAS 36, Impairment of
Assets, the Group compares the carrying
value of goodwill and intangible assets
with the higher of their net realisable value
and value in use to determine whether an
impairment exists.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting
the cash ﬂows expected to be generated
by the asset/group of assets, being tested
for evidence impairment. The use of
different estimates, assumptions and
judgements, in particular those involved 
in (a) determining a value based on our
current expectations of future conditions
and the associated cash ﬂows from the
Group’s operations, (b) our determination
of the level at which groups of assets 
can be reasonably tested for impairment
separately from other parts of the business
and (c) our treatment of centrally held
assets, could each result in materially
different carrying values of assets and
assessments of impairment. See note 10 
of the Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 
for additional information regarding the
Group’s annual impairment exercise.
(ii) Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁts
IAS 19, Employee Beneﬁts, requires the
Group to make assumptions including, 
but not limited to, future asset returns, 
rates of inﬂation, discount rates and 
life expectancies. The use of different
assumptions, in any of the above
calculations, could have a material effect 
on the accounting values of the relevant
balance sheet assets and liabilities which
could also result in a change to the cost of
such liabilities as recognised in the income
statement over time. These assumptions 
are subject to periodic review. See note 24
of the Notes to the Financial Statements for
additional information regarding the Group’s
pension and other post-retirement beneﬁts.
(u) New IFRS standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial
statements. The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material effect on its ﬁnancial
statements on initial adoption. The standards and interpretation to be adopted include:
Effective date – ﬁnancial years ending
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IFRS 4 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 30 April 2007
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 30 April 2008
IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 30 April 2008
IAS 39 Fair Value Option 30 April 2007
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 30 April 2007
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining Whether An Arrangement Contains a Lease 30 April 2007
IFRIC 6 Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Speciﬁc Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 30 April 2007
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 30 April 2008
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 30 April 2008
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will be required to disclose additional information about its ﬁnancial instruments, their signiﬁcance and
the nature and extent of the risks to which they give rise, together with greater detail as to the fair value of its ﬁnancial instruments and its risk
exposure. There will be no effect on reported income or net assets. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 57
2. Segment reporting
Primary reporting format – business segments
Continental
UK Paper and European Ofﬁce
Corrugated Corrugated Plastic Products Total
Packaging Packaging Packaging Wholesaling Other
3
Group
Year ended 30 April 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue 649.6 276.6 202.4 518.7 5.4 1,652.7
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items 20.5 20.1 7.2 12.6 – 60.4
Exceptional items (28.9) – (2.6) – (10.9) (42.4)
Segment result (8.4) 20.1 4.6 12.6 (10.9) 18.0
Net ﬁnancing costs (12.3)
Employee beneﬁt net ﬁnance income 1.2
Share of proﬁt of associates 4.1
Proﬁt before income tax 11.0
Income tax expense (5.7)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 5.3
Proﬁt attributable to DS Smith Plc equity shareholders 4.2
Proﬁt attributable to minority interest 1.1
Balance sheet
Segment assets 629.7 233.5 158.2 223.1 – 1,244.5
Unallocated items
Investments, associates and other 29.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 5.1
Cash and cash equivalents 60.4
Taxation balances 28.8
Total assets 1,368.6
Segment liabilities (158.3) (71.5) (48.3) (100.3) – (378.4)
Unallocated items
Borrowings (274.1)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (27.0)
Taxation balances (97.3)
Pension liability (50.3)
Total liabilities (827.1)
Other segment items:
Adjusted return on sales – %
1
3.2% 7.3% 3.6% 2.4% – 3.7%
Adjusted EBITDA – £m
1
55.1 33.6 19.3 19.2 0.4 127.6
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %
1
8.5% 12.1% 9.5% 3.7% 7.4% 7.7%
Year-end capital employed – £m 471.4 162.0 109.9 122.8 – 866.1
Average capital employed – £m
2
509.3 162.3 129.3 127.0 2.1 930.0
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %
1, 2
4.0% 12.4% 5.6% 9.9% – 6.5%
Capital expenditure – £m 28.8 24.4 7.2 3.2 1.4 65.0
Depreciation/amortisation – £m 34.6 13.5 12.1 6.6 0.4 67.2
1 before exceptional items
2 average capital employed is deﬁned on page 59
3 Other represents the activity of the former Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing segment, the loss on the disposal of the Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing business and the impairment of an investment that is described in note 4  58 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
2. Segment reporting continued
Primary reporting format – business segments continued
Continental
UK Paper and European Ofﬁce
Corrugated Corrugated Plastic Products Total
Packaging Packaging Packaging Wholesaling Other
3
Group
Year ended 30 April 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue 631.2 265.7 195.9 499.7 32.4 1,624.9
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items 31.6 20.2 9.3 21.5 – 82.6
Exceptional items (4.9) – (5.8) – – (10.7)
Segment result 26.7 20.2 3.5 21.5 – 71.9
Net ﬁnancing costs (13.2)
Employee beneﬁt net ﬁnance income 1.1
Share of proﬁt of associates 4.5
Proﬁt before income tax 64.3
Income tax expense (16.2)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 48.1
Proﬁt attributable to DS Smith Plc equity shareholders 47.1
Proﬁt attributable to minority interest 1.0
Balance sheet
Segment assets 637.1 247.4 168.9 201.7 16.2 1,271.3
Unallocated items
Investments, associates and other 32.2
Cash and cash equivalents 58.8
Taxation balances 36.6
Total assets 1,398.9
Segment liabilities (128.9) (99.7) (38.0) (76.9) (3.9) (347.4)
Unallocated items
Borrowings (319.5)
Taxation balances (97.4)
Pension liability (114.8)
Total liabilities (879.1)
Other segment items:
Adjusted return on sales – %
1
5.0% 7.6% 4.7% 4.3% – 5.1%
Adjusted EBITDA – £m
1
67.3 33.6 20.6 28.5 1.2 151.2
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %
1
10.7% 12.6% 10.5% 5.7% 3.7% 9.3%
Year-end capital employed – £m 508.2 147.7 130.9 124.8 12.3 923.9
Average capital employed – £m
2
528.3 147.1 140.5 119.0 14.1 949.0
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %
1, 2
6.0% 13.7% 6.6% 18.1% – 8.7%
Capital expenditure – £m 31.1 13.3 8.6 4.2 0.5 57.7
Depreciation/amortisation – £m 35.7 13.4 11.3 7.0 1.2 68.6
1 before exceptional items
2 average capital employed is deﬁned on page 59
3 Other represents the activity of the former Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing segment 2. Segment reporting continued
The Group’s primary format for segment reporting is business segments based on the Group’s management and internal reporting structure.
The secondary format is geographical segments showing the geographical origin of the Group’s activity and net assets. Further details on
these business segments are given in the Business Review on pages 9 to 21. The Group operates in two principal geographical areas: 
the UK and western continental Europe. Two further segments are identiﬁed: eastern continental Europe and the rest of the world. Segment
results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Central administration
costs are allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year-on-year. Assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment 
at a capital employed level. Capital employed excludes items of a ﬁnancing nature, taxation balances, pension liabilities and ﬁxed asset
investments; segmental capital employed comprises identiﬁable segment assets less segmental liabilities. Average capital employed is the
average monthly capital employed. The adjusted return on average capital employed is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before exceptional items
divided by average capital employed.
Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
Revenue Total assets Capital expenditure
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Year ended 30 April £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK 957.6 970.7 760.8 822.4 31.9 36.0
Western continental Europe 570.5 543.3 384.7 369.2 15.4 14.9
Eastern continental Europe 74.5 64.9 57.5 37.8 15.9 4.2
Rest of world 50.1 46.0 41.5 41.9 1.8 2.6
Total 1,652.7 1,624.9 1,244.5 1,271.3 65.0 57.7
3. Group operating proﬁt
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating expenses are analysed as follows:
Distribution expenses (199.6) (183.1)
Administrative expenses (166.0) (174.7)
(365.6) (357.8)
Details of exceptional items charged to operating expenses are set out in note 4.
Group operating proﬁt is stated after charging/(crediting) the following:
2006 2005
£m £m
Depreciation – owned assets 62.1 64.4
– leased assets 1.2 1.0
Amortisation of intangibles 3.9 3.2
Hire of plant and machinery 11.7 11.9
Other operating lease rentals 12.5 11.4
Research and development 1.1 0.8
Gains on the sale of land and buildings (4.2) (1.6)
Amounts paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates (see below) 1.3 1.3
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 59 60 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
3. Group operating proﬁt continued
2006 2005
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Auditors’ remuneration £m£m£m £m £m £m
Group audit
Parent company 0.2 – 0.2 0.1 – 0.1
Other companies 0.5 0.3 0.8 0.4 0.4 0.8
0.7 0.3 1.0 0.5 0.4 0.9
Non-audit services
Tax advisory 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
Other assurance (including IFRS transition) 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 – 0.2
0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.4
0.9 0.4 1.3 0.8 0.5 1.3
Government grants
The Group has been awarded government grants in the form of emissions quotas in continental Europe. Grants during the period totalled £3.8m.
The grants are initially recorded as ﬁxed assets, which are then used to satisfy the Group’s obligations in respect of emissions or are sold, and
deferred income, which is released to the income statement when the related expense is incurred or any quotas not used by the Group are sold.
4. Exceptional items
Items are presented as ‘exceptional’ in the ﬁnancial statements where they are signiﬁcant items of ﬁnancial performance that the Directors
consider should be separately disclosed, to assist in the understanding of the trading and ﬁnancial results achieved by the Group.
2006 2005
£m £m
Loss on disposal of businesses (4.3) –
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment restructuring costs (28.9) (4.9)
Impairment charges (9.2) (5.8)
Reversal of previous impairment of associate – 1.1
Total exceptional items (42.4) (9.6)
The loss on disposal of businesses arose on the disposal of the Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing business (loss of £1.7m) and a business in 
the Plastic Packaging segment (loss of £2.6m).
The UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging restructuring costs in 2005/06 related to the closure of a paper mill (£20.3m), the closure of a
paper machine at another mill (£5.0m), and other restructuring costs (£3.6m). The UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging restructuring costs 
in 2004/05 related to the restructuring of an acquired business.
The impairment charge in 2005/06 relates to an investment in the debt securities of an independent UK packaging business, the
performance of which has been affected by the current difﬁcult trading conditions and the high costs of energy. The charge in 2004/05
related to the impairment of goodwill in a business in the Plastic Packaging segment (see note 10). The reversal of the previous impairment 
of an associate in 2004/05 is explained in note 12.
The 2005/06 exceptional items are recorded within cost of sales, £26.1m, and within administrative expenses, £16.3m. In 2004/05,
charges of £1.6m were recorded in cost of sales, charges of £9.1m were recorded within administrative expenses and a gain of £1.1m
was recorded within share of proﬁt of associates.
5. Financing income and costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 5.0 8.5
Other loans 9.5 9.3
Finance lease interest 0.1 0.1
Total ﬁnancing costs 14.6 17.9
Finance income on cash and cash equivalents (2.3) (4.7)
Net ﬁnancing costs 12.3 13.2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 61
6. Personnel expenses 
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 277.4 273.8
Social security costs 40.7 39.6
Contributions to deﬁned contribution plans 1.6 1.2
Increase in liability for deﬁned beneﬁt plans (see note 24) 11.4 12.8
Equity-settled transactions 0.1 1.1
Personnel expenses 331.2 328.5
The average number of employees (full-time equivalents) during the year ended 30 April 2006 was 11,653 (2005: 11,937).
7. Income tax expense 
Recognised in the income statement
2006 2005
£m £m
Current tax expense
Current year (13.5) (23.3)
Over-provided in prior years 1.9 1.4
(11.6) (21.9)
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.2 1.3
Over-provided in prior years (0.3) 4.4
5.9 5.7
Total income tax expense in income statement (5.7) (16.2)
The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Proﬁt before tax 11.0 64.3
Less: share of proﬁts of associates (4.1) (4.5)
Proﬁt before tax and share of proﬁts of associates 6.9 59.8
Income tax calculated using the domestic corporation tax rate of 30% 2.1 17.9
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 1.5 1.9
Non-deductible expenses 5.6 3.1
Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses (1.9) (0.7)
Other – (0.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1.6) (5.8)
5.7 16.2
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
Relating to pension liability (16.5) 9.5
Other 1.8 –
(14.7) 9.5 62 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
8. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 30 April 2006 was based on the net proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of £4.2m
(2005: £47.1m) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 April 2006 of 387.2m 
(2005: 385.3m). The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Company’s own shares held as treasury shares 
during the year of 2.5m (2005: 2.5m).
2006 2005
£m £m
Proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders 4.2 47.1
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 April (millions) 387.2 385.3
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 1.1p 12.2p
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 30 April 2006 was based on net proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of £4.2m
(2005: £47.1m) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 April 2006, as adjusted for 
potentially issuable ordinary shares, of 388.8m (2005: 387.3m), calculated as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders 4.2 47.1
In millions of shares 2006 2005
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 April 387.2 385.3
Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share option schemes 0.3 0.5
Estimated vesting of Long-Term Incentive Plan shares 1.3 1.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) at 30 April 388.8 387.3
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 1.1p 12.1p
Adjusted earnings per share
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share amount, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for
exceptional items, helps to explain the underlying performance of the Group. A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share
is as follows:
2006 2005
Pence Pence 
£m per share £m per share
Basic earnings 4.2 1.1 47.1 12.2
Add back: exceptional operating items, after tax 34.7 8.9 9.3 2.5
Deduct: reversal of impairment of associate –– (1.1) (0.3)
Adjusted earnings 38.9 10.0 55.3 14.4
9. Dividends
Dividends declared and paid by the Group are as follows:
2006 2005
Pence Pence
per share £m per share £m
Interim dividend – paid 2.6 10.1 2.6 9.9
Final dividend – proposed 5.8 22.5 5.8 22.4
8.4 32.6 8.4 32.3
2006 2005
£m £m
Paid during the year 32.6 31.6
A ﬁnal dividend in respect of 2005/06 of 5.8 pence per share (£22.5m) was proposed by the Directors after the balance sheet date.
Under adopted IFRSs, this dividend has not been provided for in these ﬁnancial statements. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 63
10. Intangible assets
Intellectual 
Goodwill Software property Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2005 188.7 28.4 11.0 – 228.1
Acquisitions through business combinations 3.1 0.4 1.6 – 5.1
Additions – 3.0 – 4.0 7.0
Disposals – (0.8) – (2.8) (3.6)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.1) 0.1 – – –
Balance at 30 April 2006 191.7 31.1 12.6 1.2 236.6
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 May 2005 (13.9) (20.9) (2.4) – (37.2)
Acquisitions – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Amortisation for the year – (3.3) (0.6) – (3.9)
Disposals – 0.5 – – 0.5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Balance at 30 April 2006 (13.9) (24.3) (3.0) – (41.2)
Carrying amount
At 1 May 2005 174.8 7.5 8.6 – 190.9
At 30 April 2006 177.8 6.8 9.6 1.2 195.4
Intellectual 
Goodwill Software property Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2004 186.2 25.6 11.0 – 222.8
Acquisitions through business combinations 2.1 – – – 2.1
Additions – 2.9 – – 2.9
Disposals – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.4 – – – 0.4
Balance at 30 April 2005 188.7 28.4 11.0 – 228.1
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 May 2004 (8.1) (18.3) (1.8) – (28.2)
Amortisation for the year – (2.6) (0.6) – (3.2)
Impairment charge (see note 4) (5.8) – – – (5.8)
Balance at 30 April 2005 (13.9) (20.9) (2.4) – (37.2)
Carrying amount
At 1 May 2004 178.1 7.3 9.2 – 194.6
At 30 April 2005 174.8 7.5 8.6 – 190.9
The amortisation charge for the year of £3.9m (2005: £3.2m) is included within administrative expenses in the income statement. The Other
items above relate mainly to emissions quotas which are capitalised as an asset when granted to the Group and treated as a disposal when
used to satisfy the Group’s obligations or sold, as explained in note 3. 64 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
10. Intangible assets continued
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill
The following units have signiﬁcant carrying amounts of goodwill:
2006 2005
£m £m
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 140.3 140.4
Plastic Packaging 31.7 31.1
172.0 171.5
Multiple units with no individually signiﬁcant goodwill 5.8 3.3
177.8 174.8
As set out in accounting policy h in note 1, the Group tests its goodwill for potential impairment annually. The recoverable amount of 
the Group’s cash generating units is calculated on the present value of expected future cash ﬂows (the value-in-use) or the net selling price
(fair value), if greater. Given the limited available information on the likely fair value of the Group’s assets, the recoverable amount is
predominately the value-in-use. The value-in-use calculations use a pre-tax discount rate of 9.2%, derived from the Group’s weighted average
cost of capital, and cover a ﬁve-year period with a terminal value. The cash ﬂows included in the value-in-use are based for the forthcoming
and subsequent ﬁnancial year on the Group Plan approved by the Board of Directors; subsequent years’ cash ﬂows are based on estimates
of future performance. The key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: long-term sales growth – up to 3%; capital expenditure –
equal to annual depreciation; and nominal growth in proﬁt at terminal value – up to 2.5%.
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land Plant Fixtures
and and and Under
buildings equipment ﬁttings construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2005 266.0 987.5 61.2 16.2 1,330.9
Acquisitions/(divestments) through business combinations (5.7) (44.8) 1.9 – (48.6)
Additions 3.3 18.8 2.7 33.2 58.0
Disposals (3.0) (8.4) (1.9) – (13.3)
Transfers 6.2 25.0 0.1 (31.3) –
Exceptional write-offs (see note 4) (3.6) (18.2) – – (21.8)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 3.0 11.1 0.8 0.6 15.5
Balance at 30 April 2006 266.2 971.0 64.8 18.7 1,320.7
Depreciation
Balance at 1 May 2005 (66.0) (659.0) (46.6) – (771.6)
Acquisitions/(divestments) through business combinations 1.2 41.2 (1.9) – 40.5
Depreciation charge for the year (5.4) (53.2) (4.7) – (63.3)
Disposals 1.3 7.1 1.6 – 10.0
Exceptional write-offs (see note 4) 0.4 7.3 – – 7.7
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.7) (6.8) (0.4) – (7.9)
Balance at 30 April 2006 (69.2) (663.4) (52.0) – (784.6)
Carrying amount
At 1 May 2005 200.0 328.5 14.6 16.2 559.3
At 30 April 2006 197.0 307.6 12.8 18.7 536.1 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 65
11. Property, plant and equipment continued
Land Plant Fixtures
and and and Under
buildings equipment ﬁttings construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2004 258.0 939.6 56.5 17.6 1,271.7
Acquisitions through business combinations 8.3 7.7 – – 16.0
Additions 0.8 39.4 4.6 10.0 54.8
Disposals (2.4) (9.4) (1.9) – (13.7)
Transfers 0.8 8.7 1.9 (11.4) –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.5 1.5 0.1 – 2.1
Balance at 30 April 2005 266.0 987.5 61.2 16.2 1,330.9
Depreciation
Balance at 1 May 2004 (58.3) (607.3) (41.0) – (706.6)
Acquisitions through business combinations (2.4) (6.0) – – (8.4)
Depreciation charge for the year (5.4) (52.9) (7.1) – (65.4)
Disposals 0.1 8.5 1.8 – 10.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (1.3) (0.3) – (1.6)
Balance at 30 April 2005 (66.0) (659.0) (46.6) – (771.6)
Carrying amount
At 1 May 2004 199.7 332.3 15.5 17.6 565.1
At 30 April 2005 200.0 328.5 14.6 16.2 559.3
Leased plant and machinery
The Group leases production equipment under a number of ﬁnance lease agreements. At 30 April 2006 the net carrying amount of leased
plant and machinery was £2.7m (2005: £5.6m). Refer to note 19 for leased equipment lease obligations.
Property, plant and equipment under construction
Assets under construction mainly relate to production machines being built for various sites in the Group. 12. Investment in associates
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 May 22.1 21.7
Share of retained proﬁts 4.1 3.4
Reversal of previous impairment – 1.1
Repayment of loan from associate – (1.0)
Disposals (1.4) –
Exchange differences 4.4 (3.1)
At 30 April 29.2 22.1
Nature of business Principal country of operation Financial year-end Ownership 2006
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Manufacturer of paper Ukraine 31 December 38.8%
Packaging Mill and packaging
Tri-Wall KK Supplier of industrial packaging Japan 31 December 14.8%
and heavy-duty corrugated cases
Rubezhansk and Tri-Wall KK are accounted for using the equity method within these ﬁnancial statements. During the year the Group sold
18.5% of Tri-Wall KK shares, reducing its holding to 14.8%. The Group retains signiﬁcant inﬂuence over Tri-Wall KK through representation
on the Board of Directors and active participation in policy-making processes. There are no signiﬁcant restrictions on the ability of associates
to transfer funds to the Group in the form of cash dividends or the repayment of loans. 
In the year to 30 April 2005, the Group reassessed the conditions that led to a previous impairment of Tri-Wall KK and, consequent to 
Tri-Wall KK’s return to proﬁtability, reversed a provision of £1.1m (see note 4).
Summary of ﬁnancial information on associates – 100%:
Rubezhansk Tri-Wall KK Total Rubezhansk Tri-Wall KK Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets 84.8 40.3 125.1 64.2 34.3 98.5
Liabilities (13.1) (30.3) (43.4) (12.6) (20.2) (32.8)
Revenues 45.8 40.1 85.9 35.2 33.8 69.0
Proﬁt 8.6 2.8 11.4 6.9 1.7 8.6
13. Other investments
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current investments 0.5 10.1
Current investments 0.1 –
Non-current investments comprise investments in the equity and debt securities of unlisted companies. As set out in note 4, the Group
recognised an impairment charge of £9.2m in 2005/06 in respect of an investment in the debt securities of an independent UK
packaging business, the performance of which has been affected by the current difﬁcult trading conditions and the high costs of energy.
The fair value of other investments is not materially different from their carrying amounts shown above.
66 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 67
14. Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 52.0 52.5
Work in progress 3.8 5.7
Finished goods 107.5 103.5
163.3 161.7
The Group consumed £1,269.1m of inventories during the year (2005: £1,195.2m). Provisions against inventories totalled £15.2m (2005: £14.0m).
15. Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
Non-current Current Non-current Current
£m £m £m £m
Trade receivables – 315.0 – 323.0
Prepayments and other receivables 2.5 32.2 1.0 35.4
2.5 347.2 1.0 358.4
The fair value of trade and other receivables is not materially different from their carrying amounts above. Allowances for bad and doubtful
debts totalled £12.1m (2005: £13.1m).
16. Trade and other payables
2006 2005
Non-current Current Non-current Current
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables – 244.8 – 216.0
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 3.6 110.5 2.4 119.5
3.6 355.3 2.4 335.5
The fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from their carrying amounts above.
17. Net debt
The Group adopted IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, on 1 May 2005. Consequently, the comparative
information in this note for 2005 is presented under UK GAAP.
IFRS UK GAAP
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Non-current liabilities 19 264.9 294.1
Current liabilities 19 7.7 7.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 24.1
Cash and cash equivalents 18 (58.9) (41.2)
Net debt 237.8 260.7
Gearing (net debt expressed as a percentage of net assets) 43.9% 50.2% 68 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
17. Net debt continued
The Group adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure, and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement, from 1 May 2005. The effect of the adoption of IAS 39 on the Group’s net debt and shareholders’ equity is shown 
in the table below:
1 May 2005: Effect of 1 May 2005:
before IAS 39 adoption after IAS 39
adjustments of IAS 39 adjustments
£m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 58.8 – 58.8
Overdrafts (17.6) – (17.6)
Net cash 41.2 – 41.2
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year (292.1) 16.2 (275.9)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year (6.9) – (6.9)
Finance leases (2.9) – (2.9)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
– assets – 2.1 2.1
– liabilities – (20.4) (20.4)
Total net debt (260.7) (2.1) (262.8)
Other assets and liabilities* – 0.6 0.6
Net assets 519.8 (1.5) 518.3
Gearing (total net debt as a percentage of net assets) 50.2% 50.7%
* The effect of the adoption of IAS 39 on other assets and liabilities in the table above relates to deferred tax on derivative ﬁnancial instruments’ fair value and on changes in the fair value of borrowings.
The effect of the adoption of IAS 39 on net debt was an increase as at 1 May 2005 of £2.1m on previous total net debt of £260.7m to
result in net debt of £262.8m. This compares with the previous UK GAAP measure of £260.4m. The adoption of IAS 39 resulted in an
increase in gearing of 0.5 percentage points to 50.7%; this compares with the previous UK GAAP measure of 53.1%, the decrease being
largely the result of the higher level of net assets under adopted IFRSs.
The movement in the Group’s net debt is as set out in the table below:
At Acquisitions Other At
1May and non-cash 30 April
2005* Cash ﬂow disposals movements 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 58.8 (0.7) – 2.3 60.4
Overdrafts (17.6) 16.3 – (0.2) (1.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents 41.2 15.6 – 2.1 58.9
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year (275.9) 13.9 (0.6) (2.3) (264.9)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year (6.9) 3.3 (2.0) (0.1) (5.7)
Finance leases (2.9) 0.9 – – (2.0)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
– assets 2.1 – – (1.3) 0.8
– liabilities (20.4) – – (4.5) (24.9)
(304.0) 18.1 (2.6) (8.2) (296.7)
Total net debt (262.8) 33.7 (2.6) (6.1) (237.8)
* after the adoption of IAS 39  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 69
18. Cash and cash equivalents
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank balances 43.9 30.4
Short-term deposits 16.5 28.4
Cash and cash equivalents (per balance sheet) 60.4 58.8
Bank overdrafts (1.5) (17.6)
Cash and cash equivalents (per cash ﬂow statement) 58.9 41.2
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about
the Group’s exposure to interest rate and currency risk, refer to note 20.
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current liabilities
Bank and other loans 77.7 89.1
Note purchase agreements 187.2 203.0
Finance lease liabilities – 2.0
264.9 294.1
Current liabilities
Bank and other loans 5.7 6.9
Finance lease liabilities 2.0 0.9
7.7 7.8
Bank loans, other loans and overdrafts of certain subsidiaries totalling £8.2m are secured over the properties and machinery of 
these companies.
The repayment dates of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
2006
1 year 1-2 2-5 More than
or less years years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed rate 0.1 – 20.2 61.4 81.7
Floating rate 7.6 0.2 55.9 127.2 190.9
7.7 0.2 76.1 188.6 272.6
2005
1 year 1-2 2-5 More than
or less years years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed rate 0.3 – – 80.8 81.1
Floating rate 7.5 2.0 7.3 204.0 220.8
7.8 2.0 7.3 284.8 301.9 70 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
The Group’s borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps and interest-rate swaps, are denominated in the
following currencies:
Sterling Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2006
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed rate 80.6 1.1 – – 81.7
Floating rate 5.2 172.3 13.0 0.4 190.9
85.8 173.4 13.0 0.4 272.6
Cash and cash equivalents:
Fixed rate – (2.6) – (3.4) (6.0)
Floating rate (19.4) (22.0) (2.2) (9.3) (52.9)
(19.4) (24.6) (2.2) (12.7) (58.9)
Net borrowings at 30 April 2006 66.4 148.8 10.8 (12.3) 213.7
Sterling Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2005
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed rate 80.2 0.4 – 0.5 81.1
Floating rate 4.6 201.7 13.1 1.4 220.8
84.8 202.1 13.1 1.9 301.9
Cash and cash equivalents:
Fixed rate – (1.2) – (3.7) (4.9)
Floating rate 1.7 (19.0) (3.1) (15.9) (36.3)
1.7 (20.2) (3.1) (19.6) (41.2)
Net borrowings at 30 April 2005 86.5 181.9 10.0 (17.7) 260.7 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 71
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April 2006 were as follows: 
2006 2005
£m £m
Expiring within one year 5.8 13.5
Expiring between one and two years 24.4 14.9
Expiring between two and ﬁve years 173.7 –
Expiring in more than ﬁve years 0.6 172.6
204.5 201.0
At 30 April 2006, 70% of the Group’s net borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were denominated 
in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Group’s relevant continental European operations. Interest rates on ﬂoating rate
borrowings are based on LIBOR, EURIBOR or base rates. In April 2005, the Group entered into a syndicated revolving credit facility of
£250m, which expires on 31 May 2010. Advances drawn down under this facility bear interest at a margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR.
In November 2002, the Group entered into a note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of 6.24%
senior notes and £25m of 6.85% senior notes, which will mature on 14 November 2012. The Group entered into a swap transaction 
with a bank counterparty under which it made a payment of US$80m in return for €81.6m. The swap counterparty also agreed to pay 
ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 6.24% per annum in exchange for ﬂoating euro rate interest at rates linked to EURIBOR. In addition, swap
counterparties also agreed to pay ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 6.24% per annum on a principal amount of $25m in exchange for ﬂoating
dollar interest linked to dollar LIBOR and ﬁxed rate sterling interest of 6.85% per annum on a principal of £25m in exchange for ﬂoating
sterling interest linked to sterling LIBOR.
In August 2004, the Group entered into a further note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of 5.66%
senior notes and US$95m of 5.80% senior notes, which will mature on 25 August 2014 and 25 August 2016, respectively. The Group
entered into swap transactions with a bank counterparty under which it made payments of US$105m and US$20m in return for €86.5m
and €16.5m, respectively, and a payment of $75m in return for £40.8m.
The swap counterparty agreed to pay ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 5.66% per annum and 5.80% per annum, respectively; in exchange for
ﬂoating euro rate interest at rates linked to EURIBOR and ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 5.80% per annum in exchange for ﬁxed rate sterling
interest at rates of 6.21% per annum.
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2006 2005
Minimum Minimum
lease lease 
payment Interest Principal payment Interest Principal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 2.1 (0.1) 2.0 1.1 (0.2) 0.9
Between one and ﬁve years –– – 2.1 (0.3) 1.8
More than ﬁve years – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Present value of ﬁnance lease liabilities 2.1 (0.1) 2.0 3.4 (0.5) 2.9 72 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20. Financial instruments
In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has taken the exemption from the requirement to restate comparative information for IAS 32 and 
IAS 39. Accordingly the ﬁnancial instruments disclosure presented in this note on the basis of IAS 32 and IAS 39 is only for 2006.
The UK GAAP FRS 13 disclosures for 2005 are shown separately below.
(a) IFRS disclosures
The summary of the Group’s key ﬁnancial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial
Review and Risk Management sections of the Business Review on pages 22 to 28. The derivative ﬁnancial instruments set out 
in this note have been entered into to achieve the Group’s risk management objectives. 
The Group enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments, primarily interest-rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest-rate,
currency and commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities and the ﬁnancing of these activities.
The assets and liabilities as at 30 April 2006 in respect of derivative ﬁnancial instruments are as follows:
Assets Liabilities Net
£m £m £m
Derivatives held to:
Manage the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange on foreign currency investments – (9.7) (9.7)
Manage the interest-rate and currency exposure of borrowings 0.8 (15.2) (14.4)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments included in net debt 0.8 (24.9) (24.1)
Hedge future transactions – energy costs 4.3 (1.9) 2.4
Hedge future transactions – foreign exchange on purchases and sales of goods and services – (0.2) (0.2)
5.1 (27.0) (21.9)
Current 3.7 (2.0) 1.7
Non-current 1.4 (25.0) (23.6)
5.1 (27.0) (21.9)
i) Foreign exchange risk on investments
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currency of which differs from
the Group’s presentational currency.
The Group hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and through cross-currency swaps.
ii) Interest-rate and currency risk on borrowings
The Group’s policy on interest-rate risk is designed to limit the Group’s exposure to ﬂuctuating interest rates. The Group designates interest
rate swaps as fair value hedges, to swap ﬁxed-rate debt into ﬂoating rates, and as cash ﬂow hedges, to swap ﬂoating-rate debt into ﬁxed
rates. The Group is exposed to currency risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. The Group hedges this exposure through
cross-currency swaps designated as either cash ﬂow or fair value hedges.
iii) Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk on energy purchases. Such commodity price risk is managed by a combination of physical supply
agreements and derivative instruments.
iv) Foreign exchange risk on transactions
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional
currency. To reduce this exposure the Group uses foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
v) Credit risk
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk and does not enter into ﬁnancial instruments to manage credit risk. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 73
20. Financial instruments continued
(a) IFRS disclosures continued
vi) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arm’s length basis. For ﬁnancial instruments
carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists. The Group uses forward prices
for valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses swap models with present value calculations based on market yield
curves to value cross-currency and interest-rate swaps. 
All derivative ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are shown at fair value on the balance sheet. Under IAS 39 hedge accounting rules, only the
portions of the note purchase agreements which form part of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which bear a ﬂoating rate of interest is estimated to be equivalent to book value.
For current and non-current receivables (note 15) and current and non-current payables (note 16) and provisions (note 22) fair value is
estimated to be equivalent to book value and is not included in the table below.
IAS 39 IAS 39
Carrying Fair 
amount value
2006 £m £m
Bank overdrafts (1.5) (1.5)
Bank borrowings (83.4) (83.4)
Note purchase agreements (187.2) (190.8)
Derivatives held to manage the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange on investments (9.7) (9.7)
Derivatives held to manage interest-rate and currency exposure on foreign borrowings (14.4) (14.4)
Finance leases (2.0) (2.0)
(298.2) (301.8)
Cash and cash equivalents 60.4 60.4
Net debt (237.8) (241.4)
Derivatives held to hedge future energy costs 2.4 2.4
Derivatives held to hedge foreign exchange on future purchases and sales of goods and services (0.2) (0.2) 74 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20. Financial instruments continued
(a) IFRS disclosures continued
vii) Effective interest rates and repricing analysis
The table below shows the effective interest rate and maturity analysis. The effect and fair value of the cross-currency and interest-rate swaps
are, in the table below, included with the ﬁnancial liability to which they relate.
Fixed interest
Weighted Total
average 
effective At ﬂoating at ﬁxed 1 year More than
interest rate Total interest rates interest rates or less 2-5 years 5 years
As at 30 April 2006 % £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts 3.7% 1.5 1.5 – – – –
Bank loans* 3.4% 83.0 62.2 20.8 0.2 19.9 0.7
Note purchase agreements* 4.7% 211.7 148.8 62.9 – – 62.9
Finance leases 4.7% 2.0 2.0 – – – –
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 2.3% (60.4) (54.4) (6.0) (6.0) – –
Net debt 4.8% 237.8 160.1 77.7 (5.8) 19.9 63.6
Less:
Effect of cross-currency and interest-rate swaps 1.3% (24.1) (128.7) 104.6 – (19.6) 124.2
Total net borrowings 
(excluding effect of cross-currency and interest-rate swaps) 6.1% 213.7 31.4 182.3 (5.8) 0.3 187.8
* including the effect of interest-rate and cross-currency swaps DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 75
20. Financial instruments continued
(b) UK GAAP disclosures 
The disclosures required under FRS 13 for 30 April 2005 are as follows:
30 April 2005
Book value Fair value
Financial assets and liabilities £m £m
Bank and other loans 316.6 306.7
Finance lease liabilities 2.9 2.9
Short-term investments (28.4) (28.4)
Cash and cash equivalents (30.4) (30.4)
260.7 250.8
Book value Fair value
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments £m£m
Forward foreign currency contracts – (0.4)
Commodity contracts – 0.4
Cross-currency and other borrowings-related contracts – (18.0)
– (18.0)
21. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items:
Assets Liabilities Net
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment – – (70.5) (75.3) (70.5) (75.3)
Employee beneﬁts including pensions 16.1 35.6 – – 16.1 35.6
Other items 7.9 – (5.8) (3.4) 2.1 (3.4)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 24.0 35.6 (76.3) (78.7) (52.3) (43.1)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
Assets Liabilities
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Tax losses 6.4 6.2 – –
Unremitted earnings of overseas operations – – (4.3) (3.5)
Total 6.4 6.2 (4.3) (3.5)
The tax losses above do not expire under current tax legislation. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items
because it is not probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the Group can utilise the beneﬁts therefrom. Deferred tax
liabilities have not been provided for in respect of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as there is no current intention for any of the
relevant overseas entities to remit their earnings. 21. Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Analysis of movement during the year 
Property, plant, 
and equipment Employee beneﬁts Other Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 May 75.3 80.7 (35.6) (24.3) 3.4 1.5 43.1 57.9
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – – – – (0.6) – (0.6) –
Restated 75.3 80.7 (35.6) (24.3) 2.8 1.5 42.5 57.9
Acquisitions and disposals 0.6 – – – – – 0.6 –
Credit for the year (5.8) (5.8) 3.1 (1.8) (3.2) 1.9 (5.9) (5.7)
Recognised directly in equity – – 16.4 (9.5) (1.7) – 14.7 (9.5)
Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.4 – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 30 April 70.5 75.3 (16.1) (35.6) (2.1) 3.4 52.3 43.1
At 30 April 2006 deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences:
– except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill;
– except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction,
affects neither the accounting proﬁt nor the taxable proﬁt or loss; and
– in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the timing of the
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future.
At 30 April 2006 deferred tax assets were recognised for all taxable temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax assets and unused
tax losses except where it is unlikely that taxable proﬁt will be available against which to offset the loss.
22. Provisions
Employee 
beneﬁts Restructuring Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2005 4.4 4.1 1.0 9.5
Provisions acquired/(divested) during the year (0.4) – 0.5 0.1
Provisions made during the year 0.8 13.8 0.9 15.5
Provisions used during the year (0.4) (5.0) (0.2) (5.6)
Balance at 30 April 2006 4.4 12.9 2.2 19.5
Non-current 2.0 – 0.8 2.8
Current 2.4 12.9 1.4 16.7
4.4 12.9 2.2 19.5
The provision for employee beneﬁts mainly represents that for long-service awards. The restructuring provision includes amounts associated
with the closure of loss-making paper capacity and related restructuring in UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging (see note 4). Other provisions
mainly relate to provisions for vacant leaseholds and various legal claims.
76 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 77
23. Capital and reserves
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Retained earnings
Total
Total attributable
Share Share Hedging Translation Own retained to equity Minority Total
capital premium reserve reserve shares Other earnings shareholders interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2005 38.9 257.0 – (0.3) (4.7) 220.6 215.9 511.5 8.3 519.8
Effect of adoption of IAS 39 as
at 1 May 2005 – – (0.5) – – (1.0) (1.0) (1.5) – (1.5)
Restated as at 1 May 2005 38.9 257.0 (0.5) (0.3) (4.7) 219.6 214.9 510.0 8.3 518.3
Proﬁt for the period – – – – – 4.2 4.2 4.2 1.1 5.3
Actuarial gains recognised 
in the pension schemes – – – – – 54.4 54.4 54.4 – 54.4
Movement on deferred tax relating 
to the actuarial gains – – – – – (16.5) (16.5) (16.5) – (16.5)
Currency translation differences
(net of tax) – – – 9.7 – – – 9.7 – 9.7
Changes in the fair value of cash ﬂow 
hedges (net of tax) – – 0.2 – – – – 0.2 – 0.2
New share capital issued 0.2 2.4 – – – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Share-based payments (net of tax) – – – – 0.6 (0.5) 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Dividends to shareholders – – – – – (32.6) (32.6) (32.6) – (32.6)
Balance at 30 April 2006 39.1 259.4 (0.3) 9.4 (4.1) 228.6 224.5 532.1 9.4 541.5
Retained earnings
Total
Total attributable
Share Share Hedging Translation Own retained to equity Minority Total
capital premium reserve reserve shares Other earnings shareholders interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2004 38.7 254.6 – – (2.8) 223.1 220.3 513.6 7.3 520.9
Proﬁt for the period – – – – – 47.1 47.1 47.1 1.0 48.1
Actuarial losses recognised 
in the pension schemes – – – – – (31.2) (31.2) (31.2) – (31.2)
Movement on deferred tax relating 
to the actuarial losses – – – – – 9.5 9.5 9.5 – 9.5
Currency translation differences
(net of tax) – – – (0.3) – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
New share capital issued 0.2 2.4 – – – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Share-based payments (net of tax) – – – – – 3.7 3.7 3.7 – 3.7
Share-trust arrangements – – – – (1.9) – (1.9) (1.9) – (1.9)
Dividends to shareholders – – – – – (31.6) (31.6) (31.6) – (31.6)
Balance at 30 April 2005 38.9 257.0 – (0.3) (4.7) 220.6 215.9 511.5 8.3 519.8 78 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23. Capital and reserves continued
Share capital
Number of shares
2006 2005 2006 2005
Millions Millions £m £m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each:
Authorised 410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 390.9 389.1 39.1 38.9
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company. In respect of the Company’s shares that are held by the Group (see below), all rights are suspended until those
shares are reissued. A reconciliation of the movement in share capital is given in note 9 to the Company balance sheet on page 97.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary. As explained 
in note 1(a) (iv), the translation reserve was set to nil on transition to adopted IFRSs at 1 May 2004 and therefore the opening balance
contains differences only from that date.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedging instruments related 
to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Own shares
The reserve for the Company’s own shares comprises the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. The Group operates a General
Employee Beneﬁt Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the Executive Share Option
scheme, the Restricted Share Plan (discontinued in 2004) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (established in 2004). At 30 April 2006, the Trust
held 2.6m shares (2005: 3.0m shares). The market value of the shares at 30 April 2006 was £3.9m (2005: £4.5m). Dividends receivable
on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived.
24. Post-retirement beneﬁts
Liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
The Group operates two funded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the UK, the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme (‘the Group scheme’) and the 
DS Smith Containers Pension Scheme (‘the Containers scheme’). The Containers scheme was established in 2004 following the acquisition 
of Linpac Containers and assumed the pension obligations and related pension scheme assets of relevant employees of Linpac Containers
through a bulk transfer. The Group contributed £14.0m to the Group scheme in 2005/06 and contributions will remain at this level in
2006/07. The Group contributed £0.6m to the Containers scheme and expects to make broadly similar contributions in the future. The
Group operates various local pension arrangements for overseas operations and unfunded arrangements for senior executives: these are, 
in aggregate, not signiﬁcant to the Group. The ﬁnancial information given below includes amounts related to these other arrangements,
where appropriate. A charge over certain assets of the Group has been made as security for certain of the unfunded arrangements. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Group scheme was at 5 April 2004, which has been updated to 30 April 2006 by a qualiﬁed
independent actuary. The Containers scheme was valued for the purpose of the bulk transfer described above and this valuation has been
updated to 30 April 2006 by a qualiﬁed independent actuary. All valuations used the projected unit method. Both the Group scheme and the
Containers scheme are closed to new entrants. Because of this, the average age of the active members is likely to increase at future valuations
and this will lead to an increasing current service contribution rate; this may be offset by a falling total pensionable salary resulting from
leavers and retirements. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 79
24. Post-retirement beneﬁts continued
Liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
Principal actuarial assumptions are as follows:
2006 2005 2004
% %%
Discount rate for plan liabilities 5.1% 5.3% 5.7%
Inﬂation 2.7% 2.6% 2.9%
Future salary increases 3.7% 3.6% 4.2%
Future pension increases 2.7% 2.6% 2.9%
For mortality tables, the Group has used PA 92 tables for pensioners and PA 92 tables with a three-year age reduction adjustment for 
non-pensioners. Using these tables, a male member currently aged 40 is expected to live for a further 43.2 years, while a male pensioner
aged 65 is expected to live for a further 16.9 years. The tables above have been used as at 30 April 2006 and 30 April 2005 and 
reﬂect published mortality investigation data in conjunction with the consideration of the mortality experience of scheme members.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of post-retirement beneﬁts, and the expected long-term rates of return on the schemes’
assets used in the relevant ﬁnancial period, are as follows:
2006 2005 2004
Expected Expected Expected
rate of Market rate of Market rate of Market
return value return value return value
%£m %£m %£m
Equities 7.5% 524.5 7.9% 392.2 7.2% 342.5
Bonds, gilts and cash (weighted average) 4.3% 181.6 4.7% 167.1 4.4% 147.0
Total market value of assets 706.1 559.3 489.5
Present value of scheme liabilities (756.4) (674.1) (567.6)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (50.3) (114.8) (78.1)
Related deferred tax asset 15.0 34.5 23.4
Net pension liability (35.3) (80.3) (54.7)
Movements in the liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations recognised in the balance sheet
2006 2005
£m £m
Liability at 1 May (674.1) (567.6)
Transfer from provisions – (4.2)
Arising on acquisition of Linpac Containers – (32.7)
Employment beneﬁt ﬁnance expense (35.2) (33.8)
Expense recognised in the income statement (11.4) (12.8)
Member contributions (6.8) (5.6)
Plan curtailments 3.3 –
Pension payments 24.2 16.5
Actuarial loss recognised in statement of recognised income and expense (56.4) (33.9)
Liability at 30 April (756.4) (674.1) 80 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
24. Post-retirement beneﬁts continued
Movements in the fair value of plan assets recognised in the balance sheet
2006 2005
£m £m
Plan assets at 1 May 559.3 489.5
Arising on acquisition of Linpac Containers – 32.2
Employer contributions 16.8 10.7
Member contributions 6.8 5.6
Expected return on plan assets 36.4 34.9
Actuarial gains recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 110.8 2.7
Pension payments (24.0) (16.3)
Plan assets at 30 April 706.1 559.3
Expense recognised in the income statement
2006 2005
£m £m
Current service cost (11.1) (12.7)
Past service cost (0.3) (0.1)
Total service cost (11.4) (12.8)
Interest on obligations (35.2) (33.8)
Expected return on plan assets 36.4 34.9
Employment beneﬁt net ﬁnance income 1.2 1.1
Analysis of amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
2006 2005
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets 110.8 (4.5)
Experience gains and (losses) arising on schemes’ liabilities (17.9) 1.4
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of schemes’ liabilities (38.5) (28.1)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 54.4 (31.2)
History of experience gains and losses
2006 2005
£m £m
Difference between expected and actual returns on schemes’ assets 110.8 (4.5)
Above as a percentage of schemes’ assets 16% (1)%
Experience gains and (losses) arising on schemes’ liabilities (17.9) 1.4
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities (2)% 0%
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised income and expense 54.4 (31.2)
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities 7% 5% DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 81
25. Share-based payment expense 
The Group’s share-based payment arrangements are as follows:
(a)An Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) is operated for Executive Directors and other senior executives. Approved and unapproved
options are granted to UK and overseas executives on a phased basis. The exercise of any options granted under this Scheme is subject 
to the achievement of long-term performance conditions. The target for future options granted will be that the growth in the Company’s
normalised earnings per share must match or exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index plus an average of 3% per annum over 
the three-year period following grant. The base ﬁnancial year for the purposes of measuring earnings per share growth will be the
ﬁnancial year prior to the grant date. Normally, no part of the option may be exercised unless the performance target has been achieved
and the vesting period of three years’ service has been attained.
(b)In the past Executive Directors and other senior executives received an award of shares in the Company equal in value to the participant’s
annual cash bonus, pursuant to a Restricted Share Plan (RSP). The award of these shares is dependent upon performance in the relevant
ﬁnancial year. There is a vesting period of three years’ service. This scheme ceased to be operated from September 2004.
(c) In September 2004, the Group established a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The key features of the plan are that:
• Awards will be made to selected Executive Directors and other senior executives over shares in the Company; performance will be
measured over a single period of three ﬁnancial years; 
• Awards will vest based on the Company’s total shareholder return (being the increase in share price and the value of reinvested
dividends) compared to a comparator group of companies, being the constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding investment
trusts) for initial awards; 
• If the Company’s total shareholder return is ranked in the upper quartile of the comparator group or higher, the full award will vest,
reducing on a straight-line basis to 30% of the award vesting for median performance. None of the award vests for below median
performance; and
• Additionally, no awards will vest, irrespective of total shareholder return performance, unless the Company’s earnings per share growth
matches or exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the three year period.
During the year, awards totalling 1,593,516 shares were made to participating executives under the LTIP. At 30 April 2006, the total
number of shares awarded and outstanding under the LTIP was 2,929,312 (2005: 1,556,332).
(d)The Company operates a Savings Related Option Scheme, which is an all-employee share scheme approved by the Inland Revenue. 
The last grant under this Scheme matured in June 2005. There are currently no plans to make a further grant under this Scheme.
The total number of options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements are as follows:
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Weighted 
average Weighted Weighted
remaining average average 
Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise
of shares range (years) price (p) exercisable price (p)
Executive Share Option Scheme (1992) 2,023,574 164.8p – 305.4p 1.9 182.9 2,023,574 182.9
Executive Share Option Scheme (1999) 7,131,704 135.2p – 163.1p 7.3 150.5 915,358 150.0
1999 Savings Related Option Scheme – – – – – –
Restricted Share Plan 1,264,861 Nil 4.3 Nil 199,879 Nil
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2,929,312 Nil 1.9 Nil – Nil 82 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
25. Share-based payment expense continued
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
Executive Executive Share Option 1999 Savings Related Restricted Long-Term 
Option Scheme (1992) Scheme (1999) Option Scheme Share Plan Incentive Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted 
average average average average average
exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 
2006 price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s)
Balance at 
1 May 2005 200.0 3,099 147.3 7,717 139.9 1,123 Nil 1,750 Nil 1,556
Granted – – 157.9 1,583 – – – – Nil 1,594
Exercised 165.1 (163) 142.9 (1,533) 138.1 (84) Nil (376) – –
Lapsed 244.1 (912) 148.1 (635) 140.1 (1,039) Nil (109) Nil (221)
Balance 
at 30 April 2006 182.9 2,024 150.5 7,132 – – Nil 1,265 Nil 2,929
Exercisable 
at 30 April 2006 182.9 2,024 150.0 915 – – Nil 200 Nil –
Executive Executive Share Option 1999 Savings Related Restricted Long-Term 
Option Scheme (1992) Scheme (1999) Option Scheme Share Plan Incentive Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted 
average average average average average
exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 
2005 price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s)
Balance at 
1 May 2004 209.4 3,805 144.7 6,704 138.9 2,763 Nil 1,352 – –
Granted – – 157.8 1,439 – – Nil 528 Nil 1,556
Exercised – – 141.0 (426) 138.2 (1,574) Nil (130) – –
Lapsed 250.6 (706) – – 138.3 (66) – – – –
Balance 
at 30 April 2005 200.0 3,099 147.3 7,717 139.9 1,123 Nil 1,750 Nil 1,556
Exercisable 
at 30 April 2005 200.0 3,099 145.9 2,439 139.9 1,123 Nil 237 Nil –
The total expense recognised as employee costs is as follows:
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Share options granted in 2003 – 0.1 
Share options granted in 2004 – 0.5
Share options granted in 2005 (0.2) 0.5
Share options granted in 2006 0.3 –
Total expense recognised as employee costs 0.1 1.1
The fair value of options granted during the period determined using a stochastic valuation model was £1.5m (2005: £2.4m). The
signiﬁcant inputs into the model were: share prices of £1.57 for LTIP (2005: £1.50) and £1.59 for ESOS (2005: £1.59) at the grant date;
in respect of RSP grants during 2004 a share price of £1.59; the exercise prices shown above; standard deviation of expected share price
returns of 28.9% for LTIP and 39.3% for ESOS; options life disclosed above; annual risk-free interest rate of 5.2% for ESOS and expected
dividend yield of 5.2% for RSP , 5.2% for ESOS and 5.5% for LTIP . The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation 
of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period of three to six years. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 83
26. Cash generated from operations
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m
Proﬁt for the year 5.3 48.1
Adjustments for:
Exceptional items – non-cash amounts 37.8 7.1
Depreciation and amortisation 67.2 68.6
Proﬁt on sale of non-current assets (7.1) (1.8)
Share of proﬁt of associates (4.1) (3.4)
Other ﬁnance income (1.2) (1.1)
Share-based payments 0.1 1.1
Interest income (2.3) (4.7)
Interest expense 14.6 17.9
Income tax expense 5.7 16.2
110.7 99.9
Changes in:
– Inventories (4.2) (9.1)
– Trade and other receivables 13.1 (9.5)
– Trade and other payables 18.5 11.7
– Provisions and employee beneﬁts (5.2) (1.4)
22.2 (8.3)
Cash generated from operations 138.2 139.7 84 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
27. Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement in net debt
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items 60.4 82.6
Depreciation and amortisation 67.2 68.6
EBITDA 127.6 151.2
Working capital movement 27.4 (6.9)
Exceptional cash costs (4.6) (2.5)
Other (12.2) (2.1)
Cash generated from operations 138.2 139.7
Capital expenditure (62.7) (53.6)
Proceeds from sales of assets and investments 13.2 6.7
Taxation (13.5) (23.7)
Interest (12.0) (13.3)
Free cash ﬂow before net (acquisitions)/disposals and dividends 63.2 55.8
Dividends (32.6) (31.6)
Net (acquisitions)/disposals of subsidiaries 0.5 (11.7)
Net cash ﬂow 31.1 12.5
Proceeds from issue of share capital 2.6 2.6
Net purchase of own shares – (2.1)
Net debt (acquired)/disposed of (2.6) –
Non-cash movements (6.1) 1.7
Net debt movement 25.0 14.7
Opening net debt* (262.8) (275.4)
Closing net debt (237.8) (260.7)
* Opening net debt at 1 May 2005 has been restated for the effects of the adoption of IAS 39, as explained further in note 17.
28. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Less than one year 16.1 14.4
Between one and ﬁve years 68.9 65.2
More than ﬁve years 48.0 57.8
133.0 137.4
The Group leases a number of warehouse and factory facilities under operating leases. None of the leases includes contingent rentals.
29. Capital commitments 
As at 30 April 2006 the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of £12.6m (2005: £5.2m). 
30. Contingencies
Guarantees to third parties amount to £35.0m (2005: £34.8m). The Group has guaranteed certain future operating commitments of its joint
venture, Grovehurst Energy Limited (see note 35).  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 85
31. Acquisitions and disposals
On 30 September 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the voting share capital of Timmermans NV, the largest ofﬁce products wholesaler in
the Benelux region of Europe. The effect of the acquisition on the Group’s assets and liabilities was as follows:
Carrying
values before Provisional
acquisition fair values
£m £m
Intangible assets – 1.7
Property, plant and equipment 0.6 3.4
Other working capital and provisions 7.3 5.2
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (2.6) (2.6)
Net assets acquired 5.3 7.7
Goodwill 2.8
Consideration 10.5
Consideration satisﬁed by:
Cash paid of £11.7m, less cash and cash equivalents acquired of £1.2m 10.5
The fair value adjustments relate to the recognition of intangible assets, the valuation of land and buildings and the alignment of accounting
policies within working capital and provisions. The fair value adjustments contain some provisional amounts; these will be ﬁnalised in the
accounts to 30 April 2007.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Timmermans were brand names (£0.6m) and customer relationships (£1.1m).
The Group paid £11.7m as consideration for the purchase of Timmermans, acquired cash and cash equivalents of £1.2m and acquired
borrowings of £2.6m, as shown in the table above. Additional consideration, of up to £2.8m, is payable to the previous owners depending
on the performance of the business in future ﬁnancial periods.
In July 2005, the Group sold its Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing business, John Dickinson, for a loss of £1.7m. In December 2005, the Group
sold its plastic coating and laminating business, BSK, in the Plastic Packaging segment for a loss of £2.6m. Total proceeds for the disposals
in the year were £11.0m, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of.
In August 2004, the Group acquired BPB Recycling, a recovered paper collection business, from BPB plc for consideration of £9.4m. 
The book amounts of assets acquired were: property, plant and equipment, £6.5m; and working capital, £1.7m. A fair value adjustment 
of £1.4m was made to increase the book amount of land and buildings within property, plant and equipment. Negative goodwill of 
£0.2m arose which was credited to the income statement.
32. Related parties
Identity of related parties
In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries (see note 33), associates
(see note 12) and joint venture (see note 35).
The key management personnel of DS Smith Plc comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors. The compensation
of key management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 36 to 42 of the Annual Report. Certain key
management also participate in the Group’s share option programme (refer to note 25). Further details of the schemes, together with details 
of performance criteria can be found in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 36 to 42 of the Annual Report. Included within the equity-
settled transaction charge (refer to note 6) is a share-based payment charge of £nil (2005: £0.2m) relating to key management.
Other related party transactions
2006 2005
£m £m
Sales to associates and joint ventures 1.4 2.4
Purchases from associates and joint ventures 26.5 28.3
Amounts due from associates and joint ventures 0.1 3.4 86 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
33. DS Smith Group companies
Control of the Group
The Group’s ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc.
List of key consolidated companies
Country of Ownership
incorporation interest
or registration 2006
UK Paper & Corrugated Packaging
St Regis Paper Company Limited England 100%
A. A. Griggs & Co Limited England 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Limited England 100%*
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Polska S.A. Poland 98%*
Toscana Ondulati SpA Italy 65%*
Çopikas AS Turkey 100%*
Plastic Packaging
DS Smith Plastics Limited England 100%*
Cartón Plástico s.a. Spain 100%*
DW Plastics NV Belgium 100%*
Ducaplast S.A.S. France 100%*
Demes Logistics GmbH & Co KG Germany 100%*
David S. Smith America Inc. USA 100%*
DSS Rapak Inc. USA 100%*
StePac L.A. Limited Israel 90%*
Rapak GmbH & Co KG Systemverpackungen Germany 100%*
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
Spicers Limited England 100%
Spicers (Ireland) Limited Ireland 100%*
Spicers France SAS France 100%*
Timmermans NV Belgium 100%*
* indirectly held by DS Smith Plc
A complete list of the Group’s companies is available at DS Smith Plc, 4-16 Artillery Row, London SW1P 1RZ, United Kingdom.  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 87
34. Subsequent events
No material events occurred after the balance sheet date that require disclosure.
35. Interest in joint venture
The Group has a 50% interest in Grovehurst Energy Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales, the principal activity 
of which is the provision of energy and other services to the UK paper business. Grovehurst Energy Limited has a ﬁnancial year-end of 
31 December; its results have been proportionately consolidated in these ﬁnancial statement. The assets and liabilities and income and
expenses of Grovehurst Energy Limited, on a 100% basis, are as follows: non-current assets – £8.0m; current assets – £5.7m; non-current
liabilities – £6.6m; current liabilities – £7.3m; income – £53m; expenses – £53m.
36. Explanation of the transition to IFRS
These are the Group’s ﬁrst consolidated IFRS ﬁnancial statements for a full ﬁnancial year. The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been
applied in preparing the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 30 April 2006, the comparative information presented in these ﬁnancial
statements for the year ended 30 April 2005 and in the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 May 2004 (the Group’s date 
of transition).
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the Group adjusted amounts reported previously in ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance
with its previous basis of accounting (UK GAAP). An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to adopted IFRSs affected the Group’s
ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows is set out in the following tables and the notes that accompany the tables. 
Effect of the transition to IFRS on the consolidated balance sheet 
At 1 May 2004 At 30 April 2005
Effect of Effect of 
UK transition UK transition
GAAP to IFRS IFRS GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets a, b, i, j 185.6 9.0 194.6 173.7 17.2 190.9
Property, plant and equipment f, j 568.5 (3.4) 565.1 560.4 (1.1) 559.3
Investments in associates b, f 18.0 3.7 21.7 18.8 3.3 22.1
Other investments 10.6 – 10.6 10.1 – 10.1
Deferred tax assets d, e, j – 24.3 24.3 – 35.6 35.6
Other receivables 1.4 – 1.4 1.0 – 1.0
Total non-current assets 784.1 33.6 817.7 764.0 55.0 819.0
Current assets
Inventories j 154.9 – 154.9 164.0 (2.3) 161.7
Other investments 20.8 – 20.8 28.4 – 28.4
Income tax receivable 1.1 – 1.1 1.0 – 1.0
Trade and other receivables f 344.0 3.2 347.2 355.8 2.6 358.4
Cash and cash equivalents 40.8 – 40.8 30.4 – 30.4
Total current assets 561.6 3.2 564.8 579.6 0.3 579.9
Total assets 1,345.7 36.8 1,382.5 1,343.6 55.3 1,398.9 88 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
36. Explanation of the transition to IFRS continued
Effect of the transition to IFRS on the consolidated balance sheet continued
At 1 May 2004 At 30 April 2005
Effect of Effect of
Previous transition Previous transition
GAAP to IFRS IFRS GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equity 
Issued capital 38.7 – 38.7 38.9 – 38.9
Share premium 254.6 – 254.6 257.0 – 257.0
Reserves 8.5 – 8.5 7.7 – 7.7
Retained earnings a-i 192.6 19.2 211.8 178.7 29.2 207.9
Total equity attributable to 
equity holders of the parent 494.4 19.2 513.6 482.3 29.2 511.5
Minority interest i 5.8 1.5 7.3 7.8 0.5 8.3
Total equity 500.2 20.7 520.9 490.1 29.7 519.8
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 296.6 – 296.6 294.1 – 294.1
Employee beneﬁts j 54.7 23.4 78.1 80.3 34.5 114.8
Other creditors 2.4 – 2.4 2.4 – 2.4
Provisions e, f – 0.6 0.6 6.8 0.4 7.2
Deferred tax liabilities c 74.8 7.4 82.2 71.6 7.1 78.7
Total non-current liabilities 428.5 31.4 459.9 455.2 42.0 497.2
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts f 29.8 0.7 30.5 17.3 0.3 17.6
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 9.9 – 9.9 7.8 – 7.8
Trade and other payables e, f, h 341.1 (16.0) 325.1 352.2 (16.7) 335.5
Income tax liabilities 20.4 – 20.4 18.7 – 18.7
Provisions 15.8 – 15.8 2.3 – 2.3
Total current liabilities 417.0 (15.3) 401.7 398.3 (16.4) 381.9
Total liabilities 845.5 16.1 861.6 853.5 25.6 879.1
Total equity and liabilities 1,345.7 36.8 1,382.5 1,343.6 55.3 1,398.9 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 89
36. Explanation of the transition to IFRS continued
Effect of the transition to IFRS on the consolidated income statement
Year ended 30 April 2005
Effect of
UK transition
GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £m £m £m
Revenue 1,624.9 – 1,624.9
Cost of sales e (1,195.4) 0.2 (1,195.2)
Gross proﬁt 429.5 0.2 429.7
Distribution expenses (183.1) – (183.1)
Administrative expenses a, b, d (183.0) 8.3 (174.7)
Operating proﬁt 63.4 8.5 71.9
Net ﬁnancing costs g (11.9) (0.2) (12.1)
Share of proﬁt of associates a, g 5.6 (1.1) 4.5
Proﬁt before tax 57.1 7.2 64.3
Income tax expense c, d, e, g (17.6) 1.4 (16.2)
Proﬁt for the period 39.5 8.6 48.1
Attributable to:
DS Smith Plc shareholders 38.9 47.1
Minority interest 0.6 1.0
Basic earnings per share (pence) 10.1p 12.2p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 10.0p 12.1p
Effect of the transition to IFRS on the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management were classiﬁed as ﬁnancing cash
ﬂows under UK GAAP and are reclassiﬁed as cash and cash equivalents under adopted IFRSs. There are no other material differences between
the cash ﬂow statement presented under adopted IFRSs and the cash ﬂow statement presented under UK GAAP. 90 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
36. Explanation of the transition to IFRS continued
Notes to the statements of the effect of the transition to IFRS 
(a) Goodwill amortisation 
IFRS 3, Business Combinations, requires that goodwill be capitalised at cost and tested for impairment at least annually, with any impairment
losses being recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill amortised during the year ended 30 April 2005 under UK GAAP
was £8.8m, which was written back under adopted IFRSs. 
(b) Negative goodwill 
In accordance with IFRS 3, negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement. Accordingly, £0.2m of negative goodwill
arising on the acquisition of BPB Recycling, within the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment, in August 2004 was credited to the
2004/05 income statement. 
As at 30 April 2005, under UK GAAP the Group had a carrying amount of £8.5m of negative goodwill which was credited to retained
earnings under adopted IFRSs. On 1 May 2004, the Group had a carrying amount of £8.8m of negative goodwill which had been credited
to retained earnings. The effect of the 2005 and 2004 adjustments was to increase intangible assets and investments in associates.
(c) Deferred tax 
Under adopted IFRSs, speciﬁcally IAS 12, Income Taxes, deferred taxation is provided in full on all taxable temporary differences between
the book carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base. IAS 12 is generally more comprehensive in the
requirement to recognise deferred tax than UK GAAP. The Group has acquired land and buildings in past business combinations that have 
a depreciable tax base cost that is lower than their book amount. A temporary difference arises in this case under adopted IFRSs and 
a deferred tax liability is established in purchase accounting, whereas under UK GAAP this was not the case.
The Group chose not to restate business combinations prior to the IFRS transition date (1 May 2004). As a result of this, under the
transitional requirements of IFRS 1, the deferred taxation liability on the land and buildings assets above was required to be recognised and
adjusted through retained earnings rather than as an adjustment to capitalised goodwill. The effect was to reduce equity at 30 April 2005
by £7.1m and £7.4m at 1 May 2004. Any deferred tax raised will reverse through the consolidated income statement as the underlying
book-to-tax temporary difference is amortised. The net impact from the recognition of additional temporary differences on acquisitions was
to increase proﬁt after tax by £0.3m for the year ended 30 April 2005.
(d) Share-Based payments 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, requires that an expense
for share options granted be recognised in the ﬁnancial statements based on their fair value at the date of grant. This expense is recognised
over the vesting period of the options. The Group measures this expense for options granted after 7 November 2002 and not yet vested
at 1 May 2004, in accordance with the exemption permitted under IFRS 1.
The charge to the income statement for the year ended 30 April 2005 was £1.1m. As these compensation plans are settled in equity, 
there was a nil effect on the balance sheet, other than £0.4m (1 May 2004: £0.1m) deferred tax asset relating to these charges as at
30 April 2005.
(e) Holiday pay and long-service awards
Under IAS 19, Employee Beneﬁts, an accrual is recognised to take into account all short-term employee beneﬁts including paid absences for
holiday and sickness. Previously the Group did not accrue for long-service awards which were expensed only when incurred. 
As at 30 April 2005, an additional £2.5m (1 May 2004: £2.7m) was accrued for holiday pay and £0.3m (1 May 2004: £0.3m) for long-
service awards. The related deferred tax asset was £0.7m (1 May 2004: £0.8m). Operating costs for the year ended 30 April 2005 have
been reduced by £0.1m, net of tax, for the reduction in this accrual.
(f) Joint venture 
Under UK GAAP, the Group used the equity method to account for its investment in joint ventures. The Group will account for joint ventures
by proportionate consolidation under IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures. 
(g) Associates 
Under IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, the share of the associates’ results included in the Group’s proﬁt before tax is stated after
interest and tax. The share of operating proﬁt shown under UK GAAP excluded the associates’ interest and tax, with these items being shown
within the Group’s interest and tax charges. This change had the effect of reducing proﬁt before tax by £0.9m, being the amount of the tax
charges of the associates; this had no effect on the proﬁt attributable to shareholders.  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 91
36. Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
(h) Proposed dividends 
Under IAS 10, Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at 
the balance sheet date. There were £22.4m of proposed dividends provided for at 30 April 2005 (1 May 2004: £21.7m), which under
adopted IFRSs were written back to retained earnings.
(i) Minority interests
Under UK GAAP, losses in excess of the minority’s interest in the subsidiary’s equity are attributed to the minority. However, under IAS 27,
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the subsidiary’s 
equity are allocated against the majority, except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional
investment to cover the losses. Accordingly, accumulated losses at 1 May 2004 of £0.5m attributable to the minority interest were
reallocated to equity holders of DS Smith Plc. Subsequent losses of £0.4m attributable to the minority under UK GAAP during 2004/05 
were also reallocated to equity holders of DS Smith Plc.
In addition, further to the above and the Group’s decision to take advantage of the exemption under IFRS 1 not to apply IFRS 3 to
acquisitions before the transition balance sheet date, goodwill arising on acquisition of further shares of a subsidiary with a minority 
interest was reduced by £1.4m at 30 April 2005 (1 May 2004: nil).
The combined effect of the above is to reduce retained earnings to equity holders of DS Smith Plc by £1.9m, to reduce goodwill by 
£1.4m and to increase minority interest by £0.5m at 30 April 2005.
(j) Reclassiﬁcations
Computer software
Under UK GAAP, all capitalised computer software has been included within tangible ﬁxed assets. Under IAS 38, Intangible Assets, only
computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included as property, plant and equipment with other software being
classiﬁed as an intangible asset. Accordingly, a reclassiﬁcation was made of £7.4m (1 May 2004: £7.2m) between property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets at 30 April 2005.
Spare parts
IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, requires that parts which can be used only in connection with an item of property, plant and
equipment, should be accounted for as property, plant and equipment. On 30 April 2005, £2.3m of spare parts was treated as inventory
under UK GAAP. This was reclassiﬁed as property, plant and equipment. There was no reclassiﬁcation made at 1 May 2004. 
Employee beneﬁts
Under UK GAAP, the Group’s pension obligations were disclosed net of the related deferred tax asset. Under adopted IFRSs, pension
liabilities are required to be shown gross of the related deferred tax asset. Accordingly, £34.5m of deferred tax assets were reclassiﬁed
between employee beneﬁts and deferred tax assets at 30 April 2005 (1 May 2004: £23.4m).
(k) Financial instruments
The effect of the adoption of IAS 32 and 39 at 1 May 2005 is set out in note 17 on page 68. 92 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP
30 April 2006
2005
2006 (restated)
As at 30 April 2006 Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 1.6 0.4
Investments 5 920.0 960.3
921.6 960.7
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 6 13.7 3.3
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 243.5 288.9
Short-term investments – 3.0
Cash at bank and in hand 2.0 –
259.2 295.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade and other creditors 7 (32.8) (56.9)
Borrowings 7 – (7.9)
Net current assets 226.4 230.4
Total assets less current liabilities 1,148.0 1,191.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Trade and other creditors 7 (25.0) –
Borrowings 7 (462.2) (534.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 8 (0.7) (0.3)
Net assets excluding pension liability 660.1 656.8
Net pension liability 2 (32.1) (77.1)
Net assets including pension liability 628.0 579.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 39.1 38.9
Share premium account 10 259.4 257.0
Acquisition reserve 10 88.1 88.1
Capital reserve 10 – 50.0
Proﬁt and loss account 10 241.4 145.7
Shareholders’ funds 628.0 579.7
Approved by the Board on 28 June 2006 and signed on its behalf by
A D Thorne, Director
G M Morris, Director
The notes on pages 93 to 97 form part of these accounts.
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 93
Notes to Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
A summary of the signiﬁcant accounting
policies, which have been applied
consistently, is set out below: 
(a) Accounting basis 
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared 
in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards. 
(b) Changes in accounting policies 
In these ﬁnancial statements the following
new standards have been adopted for the
ﬁrst time: 
(i) FRS 20 (Share-Based Payments); 
(ii) FRS 21 (Events after the Balance 
Sheet Date);
(iii)FRS 23 (The Effects of Changes in
Foreign Exchange Rates);
(iv)the requirements of FRS 25 (Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation);
(v) FRS 26 (Financial Instruments:
Measurement); and
(vi)FRS 28 (Corresponding Amounts).
The adoption of these new standards had no
impact on the Company’s proﬁt or net assets
with the exception of FRS 20 and FRS 21:
(i) FRS 20 resulted in the recognition of
a share-based payments charge to
the proﬁt and loss account of £0.1m
(2005: £1.1m); and
(ii)Under FRS 21 dividends declared after
the balance sheet date are not accrued
until they are approved at the Annual
General Meeting. As a result, dividends
due from subsidiaries and the 30 April
2005 ﬁnal dividend have been adjusted
for. The impact of this is a reduction 
in net assets of £56.8m in the 30 April
2005 comparatives. 
The accounting policies under these new
standards are set out below. FRS 28
Corresponding Amounts has had no
material effect as it imposes the same
requirements for comparatives as hitherto
required by the Companies Act 1985. 
The corresponding amounts in these ﬁnancial
statements are restated in accordance with
the new policies, other than those covered
by the exceptions permitted by FRS 25
and FRS 26. FRS 25 and FRS 26 permit
the corresponding amounts not to be
restated and the Company has adopted
this approach. 
Under section 230(4) of the Companies
Act 1985 the Company is exempt from
the requirement to present its own proﬁt
and loss account. 
As the results of the Company are being
presented together with its consolidated
ﬁnancial statements (refer to pages 48-91),
the Company has taken advantage of the
exception contained in FRS 8 and has
therefore not disclosed transactions or
balances with entities which form part 
of the Group (or investees of the Group
qualifying as related parties). 
(c) Income recognition
Dividend income from subsidiary
undertakings is recognised in the proﬁt
and loss account when declared by the
subsidiary undertaking.
(d) Tangible ﬁxed assets 
Tangible ﬁxed assets are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the
cost or valuation less the estimated residual
value of all tangible ﬁxed assets in equal
annual instalments over their estimated
useful lives at the following rates: 
Plant, machinery, 
ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 5 – 33.3% pa
(e) Fixed asset investments 
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost
less provisions for impairment.
(f) Deferred taxation 
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred
tax is provided in full on timing differences
that result in an obligation at the balance
sheet date to pay more tax, or a right
to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates
expected to apply when they crystallise,
based on current tax rates and the law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion
of items of income and expenditure in
taxation computations in periods different
from those in which they are included
in the ﬁnancial statements. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is regarded as more likely
than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
not discounted. 
(g) Foreign currencies 
Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated at the rates of exchange
ruling at the ﬁnancial year-end.
Exchange differences arising on translation
are taken to the proﬁt and loss account.
(h) Pension contributions 
The amounts charged to operating proﬁt 
in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements
are the current service costs and gains 
and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs. Past
service costs are recognised immediately in
the proﬁt and loss account if the beneﬁts
have vested. If the beneﬁts have not vested
immediately, the costs are recognised over
the period until vesting occurs. The interest
cost and the expected return on assets are
shown as a net amount of other ﬁnance
costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised
immediately in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses.
Pension scheme assets are measured
at fair value and liabilities are measured
on an actuarial basis using the projected 
unit method and discounted at a rate
equivalent to the current rate of return 
on a high quality corporate bond of
equivalent currency and duration to the
scheme liabilities. The resulting deﬁned
beneﬁt asset or liability, net of the related
deferred tax, is presented separately
after other net assets on the face of
the balance sheet. 
(i) Financial instruments 
The Company has applied the accounting
requirements of FRS 25 and FRS 26
prospectively with effect from 1 May
2005. Loans and receivables and 
long-term loans payable are held at
amortised cost. 
(j) Share options 
The Company operates an equity-settled,
share-based compensation plan. The fair
value of the employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of the options  94 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP
continued
is recognised as an expense. The fair
value of the options granted is measured
using a stochastic model, taking into
account the terms and conditions upon
which the options were granted. The total
amount to be expensed over the vesting
period is determined by reference to the
fair value of the options granted, excluding
the impact of any non-market vesting
conditions. Non-market vesting conditions
are included in assumptions about the
number of options that are expected to
become exercisable. At each balance
sheet date, the entity revises its estimates 
of the number of options that are expected
to become exercisable. It recognises the
impact of the revision of original estimates,
if any, in the income statement, and a
corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly
attributable transaction costs are credited
to share capital (nominal value) and share
premium when the options are exercised.
(k) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of 
the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related
Party Disclosures and has therefore not
disclosed transactions or balances with
entities which form part of the Group.
2. Pensions
Details of the assumptions used in the calculation of the underlying assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements on page 79.
2006 2005
£m £m
Market value of assets 697.0 519.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (742.8) (629.8)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (45.8) (110.2)
Relative deferred tax asset 13.7 33.1
Net pension liability (32.1) (77.1)
The movement in deﬁcit during the year is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Opening deﬁcit (110.2) (78.1)
Service cost (10.5) (12.2)
Contributions 15.7 10.0
Other ﬁnance income 1.5 1.2
Actuarial gain and losses 54.7 (27.8)
Curtailments 3.3 –
Transfers (0.5) (3.5)
Payments 0.2 0.2
Closing deﬁcit (45.8) (110.2)
Information on other aspects of the Company’s deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements is materially the same as set out in note 24 to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 95
3. Employee information
The average number employed by the Company during the year was 37 (2005: 38).
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 4.1 4.0
Social security costs 0.6 0.4
Pension costs 0.7 0.5
Total 5.4 4.9
Note 25 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements sets out the disclosure information required for the Company’s share-based payments.
4. Tangible ﬁxed assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2005 – 3.0 3.0
Additions 1.4 0.1 1.5
Balance at 30 April 2006 1.4 3.1 4.5
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 May 2005 – (2.6) (2.6)
Depreciation charge for the year – (0.3) (0.3)
Balance at 30 April 2006 – (2.9) (2.9)
Carrying amount
At 1 May 2005 – 0.4 0.4
At 30 April 2006 1.4 0.2 1.6
5. Fixed asset investment
Shares
in Group
undertakings Other Total
£m £m £m
At 30 April 2005 959.0 1.3 960.3
Additions 40.6 – 40.6
Disposals (3.6) – (3.6)
Provision for impairment (59.2) – (59.2)
Returns of capital (18.1) – (18.1)
At 30 April 2006 918.7 1.3 920.0
The Company’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings at 30 April 2006 are shown in note 33 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 96 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP
continued
6. Debtors
2005
2006 (restated)
£m £m
(a) Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 5.1 1.8
Corporation tax 3.0 0.4
Other debtors 1.6 1.0
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 0.1
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.9 –
13.7 3.3
(b) Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 240.1 288.7
Other debtors 1.9 –
Deferred tax asset 0.1 0.2
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1.4 –
243.5 288.9
Total debtors 257.2 292.2
7. Creditors
2005
2006 (restated)
£m £m
(a) Trade and other creditors falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 21.0 49.2
Other tax and social security 1.7 1.4
Accruals and deferred income 8.1 6.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 2.0 –
32.8 56.9
(b) Trade and other creditors falling due after more than one year:
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 25.0 –
25.0 –
(c) Borrowings falling due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts – 7.9
– 7.9
(d) Borrowings falling due after more than one year:
Bank loans 75.8 78.7
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 199.2 252.3
Other loans 187.2 203.0
462.2 534.0
Total creditors 520.0 598.8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 97
8. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Total
£m
At 1 May 2005 0.3
Provided 0.4
At 30 April 2006 0.7
9. Share capital
Number of shares
2006 2005 2006 2005
Millions Millions £m £m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each:
Authorised 410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 390.9 389.1 39.1 38.9
Shares issued during the year to 30 April 2006 and the consideration received were:
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Number Nominal Share Total
of shares value premium consideration
‘000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Reason for issue:
Executive options 1,697 170 2,290 2,460
Savings Related Option Scheme 83 8 108 116
1,780 178 2,398 2,576
10. Reserves
Share
Proﬁt and loss account
premium Acquisition Capital Own Hedging
account reserve reserve shares reserve Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 May 2005 257.0 88.1 50.0 (4.7) – 207.2 202.5
Prior year adjustment – adoption of FRS 21 – – – – – (56.8) (56.8)
Restated as at 1 May 2005 257.0 88.1 50.0 (4.7) – 150.4 145.7
Effect of transition to FRS 25 and FRS 26 – – – – (0.1) (1.5) (1.6)
Premium arising on shares issued under option schemes 2.4 – – – – – –
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – – – – 9.3 9.3
Transfer between reserves – – (50.0) – – 50.0 50.0
Actuarial gains on pension schemes – – – – – 54.7 54.7
Tax on actuarial gains on pension schemes – – – – – (16.4) (16.4)
Changes in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedges (net of tax) – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Share-based payments – – – 0.6 – (0.5) 0.1
At 30 April 2006 259.4 88.1 – (4.1) (0.5) 246.0 241.4
The Company made a proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year of £41.9m (2005 restated: £52.0m) including the recognition of intra-group dividends.
No separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985. 
The Company’s proﬁt and loss account includes an amount of £76.6m (2005: £126.6m) which is considered non-distributable.
11. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed the gross overdrafts and loans of certain subsidiary undertakings which at 30 April 2006 amounted 
to £155.0m (2005: £203.2m). Other guarantees to third parties amount to £11.7m (2005: £11.6m). 98 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Five Year Financial Summary
Reported under UK GAAP Reported under IFRS
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
(restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Paper and Corrugated Packaging – UK
720.5 747.0 748.9
631.2 649.6
Paper and Corrugated Packaging – Continental Europe 265.7 276.6
Plastic Packaging 171.9 195.0 208.7 195.9 202.4
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 500.5 495.6 498.8 499.7 518.7
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing
5
66.7 59.7 48.0 46.8 5.4
Intra-segment (19.4) (18.3) (15.9) (14.4) –
Group revenue 1,440.2 1,479.0 1,488.5 1,624.9 1,652.7
Operating proﬁt
1, 4
Paper and Corrugated Packaging – UK
51.2 53.1 41.4
31.6 20.5
Paper and Corrugated Packaging – Continental Europe 20.2 20.1
Plastic Packaging 12.7 14.7 14.0 9.3 7.2
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 9.7 16.2 19.7 21.5 12.6
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing (1.6) 4.0 0.3 – –
Group operating proﬁt
1, 4
72.0 88.0 75.4 82.6 60.4
Associated undertakings
1
2.2 2.6 3.0 3.4 4.1
Interest (11.6) (10.9) (10.4) (13.2) (12.3)
Other ﬁnance (expense)/income
4
– – (3.2) 1.1 1.2
Proﬁt before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
4
62.6 79.7 64.8 73.9 53.4
Exceptional items (32.4) (8.5) – (9.6) (42.4)
Amortisation of intangibles (1.4) (2.2) (3.6) – –
Proﬁt before taxation
4
28.8 69.0 61.2 64.3 11.0
Free cash ﬂow 73.5 60.2 63.0 55.8 63.2
Capital expenditure 74.8 57.4 49.8 53.6 62.7
Depreciation 63.6 62.2 64.5 68.6 67.2
Average capital employed
2
783.3 775.5 789.3 949.0 930.0
Shareholders’ funds
4
438.9 472.9 494.4 519.8 541.5
Net borrowings 195.9 202.3 274.7 260.7 237.8
Adjusted return on sales
1, 4
5.0% 5.9% 5.1% 5.1% 3.7%
Adjusted return on average capital employed
1, 4
9.2% 11.3% 9.6% 8.7% 6.5%
Gearing
4
44.6% 42.8% 54.9% 50.2% 43.9%
Adjusted earnings per share
1, 3, 4
13.1p 16.8p 13.6p 14.4p 10.0p
Dividends per share
3
8.2p 8.2p 8.2p 8.4p 8.4p
Adjusted dividend cover
1, 4
1.6x 2.0x 1.5x 1.7x 1.2x
Net assets per share
3, 4
127.5p 137.0p 129.2p 133.6p 138.5p
1 before exceptional items and, for years reported under UK GAAP, amortisation of intangibles
2 average capital employed is deﬁned in note 2 on page 59
3 adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue which took place during the year ended 30 April 2004
4 proﬁt and proﬁt-related ﬁgures for the ﬁnancial years 2003/04, 2004/05 and 2005/06 are not comparable with those for the previous two years. Results for 2001/02 and 2002/03 were reported under
previous accounting standard SSAP 24 and there is no pension charge in either of these years; results for 2003/04 are stated under pensions accounting standard FRS 17 and include a pension charge; and results
for 2004/05 and 2005/06 are stated under IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts and include a pensions charge. Shareholders’ funds, gearing and net assets per share for the ﬁnancial year 2003/04 are presented under
UITF 38; 2004/05 and 2005/06 are presented under adopted IFRSs; in both cases they include holdings of own shares as a reduction of shareholders’ funds; those for 2001/02 and 2002/03 include holdings
of own shares as investments
5 the Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing business was sold in July 2005
}
} DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 99
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006
Notice is hereby given that the Annual 
General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be 
held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool
Street, London EC2M 7QN, on Wednesday 
6 September 2006 at 12 noon to consider 
and, if thought fit, pass the following
resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 11 
will be proposed as ordinary resolutions 
and Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 will be
proposed as special resolutions:
1 To receive and adopt the Directors’
Report, the Auditors’ Report and 
financial statements for the year ended 
30 April 2006.
2 To declare a final dividend on the 
ordinary shares.
3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
4 To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a Director
of the Company.
5 To re-elect Mr R E C Marton as a Director
of the Company.
6 To re-elect Mr G M Morris as a Director
of the Company.
7 To re-elect Mr D R Piette as a Director 
of the Company.
8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as
Auditors of the Company.
9 To authorise the Directors to determine 
the remuneration of the Auditors.
10 That the provisions of French Section II 
of the DS Smith Plc 1999 Executive 
Share Option Scheme (the ‘Scheme’) 
be approved in their current form,
unamended, so that the Company can
continue to grant options under that
Section to eligible employees resident 
in France in a tax efficient manner 
for a period of 38 months from the 
date of the approval.
11 That:
(a) in accordance with article 6 of the
Articles of Association of the Company,
the Directors be authorised to allot
relevant securities up to a maximum
nominal amount of £10,945,894;
(b) this authority shall expire at the
conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting to be held in 2007 or, if earlier, 
5 December 2007 save that the Company
shall be entitled under such authority to
honour at any time before expiry thereof
any commitment to allot its ordinary shares
which will or might be concluded wholly or
partly after the expiry of such authority; and
(c) all previous authorities under Section
80 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
12 That:
(a) in accordance with article 7 of the
Articles of Association of the Company,
the Directors be given power to allot
equity securities for cash;
(b) the Directors be empowered to allot
equity securities within Section 94(3A) 
of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section
89(1) of the Act did not apply;
(c) the powers under paragraph (a) above
(other than in connection with a rights issue)
and paragraph (b) above shall be limited to
the allotment of equity securities having a
maximum nominal amount of £1,954,624; 
(d) these authorities shall expire at 
the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2007 or, if earlier,
5 December 2007 save that the Company
shall be entitled under such authorities to
honour at any time before expiry thereof
any commitment to allot its ordinary
shares which will or might be concluded
wholly or partly after the expiry of such
authority; and
(e) all previous authorities under Section
95 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
13 That in accordance with article 11 of the
Articles of Association of the Company and
the Companies Act 1985, the Company is
generally and unconditionally authorised to
make market purchases (within the meaning
of the Companies Act 1985) of ordinary
shares of 10p each in the capital of the
Company in such manner and on such
terms as the Directors may from time 
to time determine provided that:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary
shares hereby authorised to be purchased
is 39,092,479 ordinary shares;
(b) the minimum price which may be paid 
for each ordinary share is 10p (exclusive
of expenses payable by the Company);
(c) the maximum price which may be 
paid for each ordinary share is an amount
equal to 105% of the average of the
middle market quotations for an ordinary
share as derived from the London Stock
Exchange Daily Official List for the five
business days immediately preceding the
date of any such purchase (exclusive of
expenses payable by the Company); and
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall,
unless previously varied, revoked or
renewed, expire on 5 December 2007 or,
if earlier, at the conclusion of the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company,
save that the Company shall be entitled
under such authority to make at any time
before the expiry thereof any contract to
purchase its ordinary shares which will or
might be concluded wholly or partly after
the expiry of such authority.
14 That the regulations set out in the printed
document submitted to the Meeting and
for the purpose of identification initialled
by the Chairman be adopted as the 
Articles of Association of the Company 
in substitution for all existing articles 
of association of the Company.
By Order of the Board
Carolyn Cattermole
Secretary
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
19 July 2006
  100 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 
continued
Notes
(i) Only those Members registered 
in the Register of Members of the 
Company as at 6 pm on 4 September 2006
shall be entitled to attend and vote at 
the Meeting in respect of the number 
of shares registered in their names at 
that time.
(ii) A Member entitled to attend and vote 
at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one 
or more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, 
to vote instead of him. A Proxy need not
be a Member of the Company.
(iii)A Form of Proxy is enclosed. To be
effective, Forms of Proxy must reach 
the Registrars at the address shown on 
the Form not later than 48 hours before 
the time of the Meeting. Completion 
and return of the Form will not, however,
prevent a Member from attending and
voting at the Meeting.
(iv) CREST Members who wish to appoint 
a proxy or proxies through the CREST
electronic proxy appointment service 
may do so for the Meeting to be held on 
6 September 2006 and any adjournment(s)
thereof by using the procedures described
in the CREST Manual. CREST personal
Members or other CREST sponsored
Members, and those CREST Members
who have appointed a voting service
provider(s), should refer to their CREST
sponsor or voting service provider(s), who
will be able to take the appropriate action
on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or
instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate 
CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly
authenticated in accordance with
CRESTCo’s specifications and must
contain the information required for 
such instructions, as described in the
CREST Manual. The message, regardless
of whether it constitutes the appointment 
of a proxy or an amendment to the
instruction given to a previously appointed
proxy must, in order to be valid, be
transmitted so as to be received by the
issuer’s agent (ID 7RA01) by the latest
time for receipt of proxy appointments
specified in (iii) above. For this purpose,
the time of receipt will be taken to be 
the time (as determined by the timestamp
applied to the message by the CREST
Applications Host) from which the 
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the
message by enquiry to CREST in the
manner prescribed by CREST. After 
this time any change of instructions 
to proxies appointed through CREST
should be communicated to the appointee
through other means.
CREST Members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service
providers should note that CRESTCo 
does not make available special 
procedures in CREST for any particular
messages. Normal system timings and
limitations will therefore apply in 
relation to the input of CREST Proxy
Instructions. It is the responsibility of 
the CREST Member concerned to take 
(or, if the CREST Member is a CREST
personal Member or sponsored Member 
or has appointed a voting service
provider(s), to procure that his CREST
sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary
to ensure that a message is transmitted 
by means of the CREST system by any
particular time. In this connection, CREST
Members and, where applicable, their
CREST sponsors or voting service
providers are referred, in particular, to
those sections of the CREST Manual
concerning practical limitations of the
CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid 
a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation
35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities
Regulations 2001. 
(v) Copies of the following documents will be
available for inspection at the Registered
Office and at the offices of Allen & Overy
LLP, One New Change, London EC4M
9QQ during normal business hours and at
the place of the Meeting from 11.45 am
until its conclusion: 
(a) Service contracts of the Executive
Directors;
(b) Letters of appointment of the 
non-Executive Directors;
(c) Articles of Association; and
(d) Proposed new Articles of Association.
(vi)The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration
and Nomination Committees will be
available to answer relevant questions 
at the Meeting.
Explanatory notes on the resolutions
Resolution 1:
Report and financial statements
The Directors present to shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting the Reports of 
the Directors and Auditors and the financial
statements of the Company for the year 
ended 30 April 2006. These are contained 
in the Annual Report.
Resolution 2: 
Declaration of a final dividend
Final dividends declared by shareholders 
must not exceed the amount recommended 
by the Directors. By passing Resolution 2,
shareholders will declare a final dividend. 
The amount of the final dividend
recommended by the Directors is 5.8p net
per ordinary share.
Resolution 3:
Approval of Report on Remuneration
As required by the Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002, shareholder
approval is sought for the Report on
Remuneration set out on pages 36 to 42. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 101
Resolutions 4 – 7: 
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association of the Company
require that all Directors retire at least once
every three years but are eligible to submit
themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
The Directors who retire at each Annual
General Meeting are those who would
otherwise have served for over three years
without re-election by the date of the
following Annual General Meeting.
Mr Johnson, Mr Marton and Mr Morris will
retire and, being eligible, offer themselves 
for re-election at this year’s Annual General
Meeting. Mr Johnson is a member of the
Nomination, Audit and Remuneration
Committees. Mr Marton is a member of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
Mr Morris is a member of the General
Purposes Committee. Mr Piette is submitting
himself for re-election as he has served more
than three terms of appointment. 
A biography of each Director, including those
seeking re-election, appears on page 5 of the
Annual Report.
Resolutions 8 and 9: 
Re-appointment of Auditors
The auditors of a company must be 
re-appointed at each general meeting at 
which accounts are presented. Resolution 8
proposes the re-appointment of the Company’s
existing Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, until the
next Annual General Meeting. Resolution 9
gives authority to the Directors to determine
the Auditors’ remuneration.
Resolution 10:
Re-approve French Section II to the Executive
Share Option Scheme
The Company has been advised that under 
the applicable French legislation, shareholder
approval needs to be obtained if the Company
wishes to continue to grant options under
French Section II of the DS Smith Plc 
1999 Executive Share Option Scheme (the
‘Scheme’) to eligible employees (as defined 
in the rules of the Scheme) resident in France.
Accordingly, while no amendment is proposed
to French Section II which was formally
approved by shareholders on 8 September
1999 and further approved by shareholders 
on 3 September 2003, shareholder approval is
being sought to allow grants of options under
the Section for a further period of 38 months
from the date of the Resolution so that any
options granted will qualify for beneficial 
tax treatment. 
Resolution 11:
Directors’ authority to allot shares
Authority was granted to the Directors at last
year’s Annual General Meeting, pursuant to
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to 
allot shares in the Company without the prior
consent of shareholders for a period of five
years. Resolution 11, which will be proposed
as an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, 
give the Directors renewed authority to 
allot shares up to a maximum nominal 
value of £10,945,894 (representing 28% 
of the issued share capital of the Company 
at 28 June 2006).
Other than in connection with any exercise 
of options under the Group’s employee share
option schemes, the Directors have no 
present intention of exercising the allotment
authority proposed by this Resolution. This
authority will expire at the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier, 
on 5 December 2007, except in so far as
commitments to allot shares have been 
entered into before that date. It is the present
intention of the Directors to seek a similar
authority annually.
Resolution 12: 
Directors’ power to disapply 
pre-emption rights 
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a
special resolution, supplements the Directors’
authority to allot shares in the Company
(proposed by Resolution 11). Section 89 of 
the Companies Act 1985 requires a company
proposing to allot equity securities for cash 
to offer them first to existing shareholders pro
rata to their existing shareholdings. Authority
was granted to the Directors at last year’s
Annual General Meeting and the Directors
propose to seek shareholders’ approval to
renew this authority, pursuant to Section 95 
of the Companies Act 1985, to allot such
securities, notwithstanding the requirement
imposed by Section 89, in two cases:
– in connection with a rights issue; and 
– allotments of shares for cash up to a total
nominal value of £1,954,624 (representing 
5% of the Company’s issued share capital 
at 28 June 2006) although it is not intended
without prior consultation with the
investment committee of the Association 
of British Insurers to issue or transfer in this 
way more than 7.5% of the share capital 
in a rolling three-year period. This gives 
the Directors flexibility to take advantage 
of business opportunities as they arise,
including the sale of any shares the
Company has purchased and held in
treasury, whilst the 5% limit ensures that
existing shareholders’ interests are protected,
and is in line with guidelines issued by
institutional investors’ bodies.
This authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if
earlier, on 5 December 2007, except in so 
far as commitments to allot shares have been
entered into before that date. It is the present
intention of the Directors to seek a similar
authority annually.
Resolution 13:
Company’s authority to purchase shares 
This Resolution, which will be proposed 
as a special resolution, seeks to renew 
the existing authority for the Company 
to purchase its own shares in the market. 
This authority gives the Company greater
flexibility in managing its capital resources.
The Directors have no specific intention of
using this authority and would do so only
when, in the light of market conditions, they
believed that the effect of such purchases
would be to increase earnings per share, 
and that the purchases were in the interests 
of shareholders generally. The Directors 
would also give careful consideration to
gearing levels of the Company and its general 102 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 
continued
financial position. The purchase price would
be paid out of distributable profits. Resolution
13 specifies the maximum number of shares
which may be purchased (representing 10% 
of the Company’s issued share capital at 
30 April 2006), the minimum and maximum
prices at which they may be bought and 
when the authority will expire, reflecting 
the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 
and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
The maximum price at which the shares may
be purchased is 5% above the average of 
the middle market values of those shares 
for the five business days before the purchase
is made.
Purchases of shares under the proposed
authority are required by the FSA to be 
made in compliance with The Model Code.
Accordingly, the Company would not exercise
the authority at a time when the Directors
would be precluded from dealing in the
Company’s shares. Specifically, purchases
would not be made within the 60 days
preceding the announcement of the interim 
or final results. This proposal should not be
taken as an indication that the Company 
would purchase shares at any particular price
or to imply any opinion on the part of the
Directors as to the market or other value 
of the Company’s ordinary shares. 
The Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares)
(Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 enable
certain listed companies to hold shares 
in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling
them, following a purchase of own shares 
by the Company in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. Shares held in treasury
may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash
or used to satisfy share options and share
awards under the Company’s share schemes.
Once held in treasury, the Company is not
entitled to exercise any rights, including the
right to attend and vote at meetings in respect
of those shares. Further, no dividend or
distribution of the Company’s assets may 
be made to the Company in respect of those
shares whilst held in treasury.
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the
authority conferred by Resolution 13, the
Company will have the option of holding
those shares in treasury rather than cancelling
them. The total number of ordinary shares that
are under option through the Company’s share
option schemes at 28 June 2006 (being the
latest practicable date prior to publication of
this notice) is 9,133,834 of which 8,058,314
are options over unissued ordinary shares. 
The proportion of issued ordinary share capital 
that the options over unissued ordinary shares
represented on this date was 2.06% and the
proportion of issued ordinary share capital 
that they will represent if the full authority 
to purchase shares (existing and being sought) 
is used is 1.87%. The authority will expire on 
5 December 2007 or at the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting (whichever is
the earlier). It is the present intention of the
Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 14:
Adoption of new Articles of Association
This Resolution, which will be proposed as 
a special resolution, adopts new Articles of
Association in place of the existing Articles 
of Association. The only change to the existing
Articles of Association is the insertion of the
new article 71 (Power to borrow money) 
and the deletion of the existing article 71.
Companies listed on the London Stock
Exchange are required with effect from the
current financial year to prepare their accounts
in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS). The existing
Articles of Association limit the power of 
the Company to borrow money to 2 times 
the Group’s “adjusted capital and reserves”. 
In addition, the existing definition of adjusted
capital and reserves in the Company’s Articles
of Association has reference to historical 
items that are no longer recorded in the
Group’s financial statements or which have 
been changed by the adoption of IFRS.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the borrowing
power in the Company’s existing Articles 
of Association be altered, the principal
changes being:
– to increase the ability of the Company to
borrow money to the greater of an amount
equal to 2.5 times adjusted total equity (total
equity being the new terminology used by
IFRS and appearing on consolidated balance
sheets of the Group prepared under IFRS) 
and £1,000,000,000 (the Fixed Limit). The
increase in the multiple to 2.5 times, from 
the previous multiple of 2 times, will provide
headroom to compensate for any reductions
that may arise as a direct result of the
introduction of IFRS and the consequent
change in definition of total equity. The
introduction of a lower limit to the amount 
of the Fixed Limit as a component of the
Group’s borrowing limit has been made to
reflect the fact that volatile and significant
accounting charges, which would reduce the
Group’s total equity, are possible under IFRS,
but either would not have been recorded
under previous UK GAAP or reversed when
computing the borrowing powers under the
existing Articles of Association. These could
include, for example, the recognition of the
Group’s pension arrangements on balance
sheet or the impairment of assets. It would 
be disadvantageous to the Group for these
non-cash accounting charges to restrict the
Group’s power to borrow money above a
sensible financial amount. The Fixed Limit
represents a 2.5 times multiple of adjusted
total equity of the Group of £400,000,000,
which is over £100,000,000 less than 
the adjusted total equity of the Group 
at 30 April 2005 and 30 April 2006. The 
change to the multiple and the inclusion 
of the Fixed Limit to the borrowing power 
are in line with the approach taken by other
FTSE 350 companies and are understood 
to be acceptable to the ABI and major
institutional shareholders.
– a new definition of “cash and cash
equivalents” has replaced the old 
definition of “cash deposited”.
A copy of the new Articles of Association of
the Company is available for inspection at the
addresses specified in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting of the Company. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 103
Important notes about the 
Annual General Meeting
Date
Wednesday 6 September 2006
Location
Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, 
London EC2M 7QN
Timing
The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon
and shareholders wishing to attend are advised
to be in the venue no later than 11.50 am. The
reception area will be open from 11.30 am,
from which time refreshments will be served.
Travel information
See map on the reverse of Admittance Card
for the location of the Great Eastern Hotel, 
and the nearest underground and railway
stations. The venue is less than five 
minutes’ walk from Liverpool Street station.
There are no car parking facilities at 
the venue.
Admission
Please bring the Admittance Card with you 
to the Meeting. You may be asked to show 
the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy holders may also 
be required to provide proof of identity. The
registration process may take longer without
these documents. Shareholders are politely
requested to bring no more than one guest 
to the Meeting except by prior arrangement
with the Company Secretary.
Facilities
The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair
access. If you are planning to come to the
Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would 
be helpful if you would telephone the venue 
in advance on 020 7618 5618.
Enquiries and questions
Shareholders who intend to ask a question
related to the business of the Meeting are
asked to provide their name, address and
question at the Registration desk. Staff 
from Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on 
hand to provide advice and assistance. 104 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Shareholder Information
Financial Diary
29 June 2006
Preliminary announcement of results 
for the year ended 30 April 2006
16 August 2006
Ex-dividend date for ﬁnal dividend
6 September 2006
Annual General Meeting
19 September 2006
Payment of ﬁnal dividend
6 December 2006*
Announcement of interim results 
for the six months ended 31 October 2006
31 January 2007*
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend
6 March 2007*
Payment of interim dividend
28 June 2007*
Preliminary announcement of results 
for the year ended 30 April 2007
*Provisional date
Company Website
The Company’s website at
www.dssmith.uk.com contains the latest
information for shareholders, including press
releases and an updated financial diary. Email
alerts of the latest news, press releases and
financial reports about DS Smith Plc may be
obtained by registering for the email news
alert service on the website.
Share Price Information
The latest price of the Company’s
ordinary shares is available from the 
FT Cityline service. Calls within the UK 
are charged at 60 pence per minute at all
times. To access this service, telephone 
0906 843 4044 and enter the code 4044 
when requested to do so. Alternatively 
click on www.londonstockexchange.com.
DS Smith’s ticker symbol is SMDS. It is
recommended that you consult your financial
adviser and verify information obtained 
from these services before making any
investment decision.
Registrars
Please contact the Registrars at the address
below to advise of a change of address or for
any enquiries relating to dividend payments,
lost share certificates or other share
registration matters.
The Registrars provide on-line facilities 
at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Once 
you have registered you will be able to 
access information on your DS Smith Plc
shareholding, update your personal details 
and amend your dividend payment instructions
on-line without having to call or write to 
the Registrars.
Dividends
Shareholders who wish to have their 
dividends paid directly into a bank or 
building society account should contact 
the Registrars. In addition, the Registrars 
are now able to pay dividends in 36 foreign
currencies. This service is called ‘TAPS’
and enables the payment of your dividends
directly into your bank account in your home
currency. A charge of £2.50 is deducted from
each dividend payment to cover the costs
involved. Please contact the Registrars 
to request further information.
Share Dealing Services
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone 
and internet dealing service. Further 
details including terms and rates can be
obtained by logging on to the website at
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling
0870 850 0852. Lines are open between 
8.30 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
JPMorgan Cazenove operates a low cost 
share dealing service for private investors 
who wish to buy or sell ordinary shares of 
the Company. This is an execution-only
service and further details can be obtained
from The Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan
Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Telephone 020 7606 1768. Please note there 
is a minimum level of £500 for purchasing
shares using this service.
Registered Ofﬁce and Advisers
Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce
Carolyn Cattermole
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Registered in England No: 1377658
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
Solicitors
Allen & Overy LLP
One New Change
London EC4M 9QQ
Principal Clearing Bank
The Royal Bank of Scotland
135 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 3UR
Stockbroker
JPMorgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Investment Bank
UBS
2 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registrars Queries
UK telephone 0870 600 3970
Overseas telephone +44 121 415 7047
On the internet at www.shareview.co.uk Contents
1 Highlights
2 Group Overview
4 Chairman’s Statement
5 Directors and Company Secretary
6 Chief Executive’s Review
Business Review
9 Description of the Group
11 Strategy
12 Operating Review
22 Financial Review
27 Risk Management
29 Corporate Social Responsibility Review
33 Corporate Governance
36 Remuneration Report
43 Directors’ Report and 
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
46 Auditors’ Report
47 Contents of the Financial Statements 
and Notes
48 Consolidated Financial Statements 
and Notes
92 Company Balance Sheet and Notes
98 Five Year Financial Summary
99 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006
104 Shareholder Information
105 Principal Locations
Design 
in action
Creating retail-ready packaging 
that satisfies new customer requirements
Development
in action
Although the Group’s
2005/06 results were
affected by tough
trading conditions, we
continued to strengthen
DS Smith. In this Report,
we highlight some 
of the ways in which
we are developing 
our businesses.
Innovation
in action
Developing new products and markets 
for our Plastic Packaging businesses
Supplying the fast-growing Polish market 
from our new Kutno box plant
p 15
p1 9
Advancing Spicers’ business in continental Europe
p21
Expansion
in action
p1 7
Growth 
in action
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 105
Principal Locations
Group Office
DS Smith Plc
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Divisional Offices
DS Smith Packaging 
Pilgrim House
2-6 William Street
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 1BA
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 754 380 
St Regis Paper Company 
Mill Lane
Taplow 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 0AF
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 798 111 
DS Smith Kaysersberg
BP 1
68320 Kunheim
France
Telephone +33 (0) 3 89 72 24 00
DS Smith Plastics 
Brownsover Road 
Rugby
Warwickshire CV21 1HL
Telephone +44 (0) 1788 535 329
Spicers 
Homewood
Sawston
Cambridgeshire CB2 4JG
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 834 555
Published by Black Sun Plc +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
Printed by the colourhouse
  DS Smith Plc
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Fax +44 (0) 20 7932 5003
Email ir@dssmith.co.uk
www.dssmith.uk.com
Annual Report 
2006
www.dssmith.uk.com
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
