 ANNUAL REPORT 2009
STRENGTH TODAY
ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW DS Smith is an international packaging supplier
and office products wholesaler. It has revenue of
£2.1 billion and employs over 11,000 people in
18 countries.
The Group’s strong market positions combined
with our focus on cost competitiveness and cash
generation provide a robust base from which to
confront today’s challenging business environment
and benefit from future economic recovery.
Front cover photographs, clockwise from top left:
• Retail-ready packaging: DS Smith is a leader in this growth sector of the market.
• High-quality printing: the Group has a strong capability to supply packaging
with high visual impact.
• Continental European growth: the strong service proposition of Spicers Germany is
assisting our continued development.
• Innovative market development: our bag-in-box packaging is being used by fast-food
outlets to sell multiple servings of coffee.
CONTENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW
1 Highlights
2 Our Activities
4 Strength and Action
6 Chairman’s Statement
7 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Strategy
11 Our Key Performance
Indicators
12 Description of the Group
14 Operating Review
22 Financial Review
27 Risk Management
30 Corporate Responsibility
Review
GOVERNANCE
36 Directors and
Company Secretary
38 Corporate Governance
41 Remuneration Report
49 Directors’ Report and
Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
52 Index to the Financial
Statements and Five-Year
Financial Summary
53 Independent Auditors’
Report
54 Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes
101 Company Balance
Sheet and Notes
107 Five-Year Financial
Summary
NOTICE OF MEETING
108 Notice of Annual General
Meeting 2009
112 Shareholder Information
113 Principal Offices BUSINESS REVIEW
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 1
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
HIGHLIGHTS
• Adjusted proﬁts down: a robust performance given the economic conditions
• Strong cash generation
• Packaging: good results in Corrugated Packaging; proﬁts in Paper well down
• Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling: continental European proﬁt advance offset by
lower results in the UK
• Action programme implemented to secure future results
• Full-year dividend reduced: one of a range of measures to underpin
ﬁnancial strength
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
2008/09 2007/08
Revenue – £m 2,106.6 1,967.5
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
1
–£m 72.5 111.0
Proﬁt before tax – £m 16.8 109.1
Adjusted earnings per share
1
– pence 12.6 19.9
(Loss)/earnings per share – pence (3.0) 19.6
Adjusted return on average capital employed
1
–% 9.3% 12.9%
Free cash inﬂow
2
–£m 59.9 84.8
Net debt/adjusted EBITDA
3
– times 1.8x 1.4x
Total dividend per share – pence 4.4 8.8
1 before exceptional charge of £55.7m (2007/08: net exceptional charge of £1.9m)
2 before exceptional cash costs, dividends and net acquisitions
3 adjusted for exceptional charge of £50.6m (2007/08: £1.9m)
07 1,766
1,967
2,107
08
09
REVENUE
£million
2008/09 REVENUE
£million
Packaging
£1,386.1m
Ofﬁce Products
Wholesaling
£720.5m
UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging
Continental European
Corrugated Packaging
Plastic Packaging
237
786 721
363
2008/09 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£million
Packaging
£73.9m
Ofﬁce Products
Wholesaling
£20.1m
UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging
Continental European
Corrugated Packaging
Plastic Packaging
20.1 36.5
30.4
7.0 BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR ACTIVITIES
2 www.dssmith.uk.com
Revenue £786 million
A leading position in the whole UK
corrugated packaging supply chain –
enabling total recyclability
Waste paper – No. 1 UK collector for recycling and
a provider of waste management services
Paper – No.1 UK producer; leader in recycled corrugated
case material and plasterboard liner
Corrugated packaging – No.1 UK supplier; 65% to the
fast-moving consumer goods sector
www.severnside.com, www.stregis.co.uk, www.dssmith-packaging.com
Packaging
LOCATIONS
• Severnside Recycling’s network of 16 collection depots enables
it to collect waste paper from most parts of the UK.
• St Regis produces paper at 4 mills to supply DS Smith
Packaging and a wide range of non-Group customers.
• DS Smith Packaging’s network of 31 corrugated packaging
plants enables it to service customers throughout the UK.
DS Smith Packaging’s
innovative box for top
confectionery brand
Snickers, has enabled
reductions in the amount
of packaging used and in
freight costs. The previous
outer corrugated box and
inner carton board pack
were replaced with a
strong and eye-catching
single corrugated pack.
SAVING COSTS AND CARBON
Revenue £363 million
Strong positions in chosen national markets,
principally in corrugated packaging; also
produces speciality paper
Corrugated packaging – well-established positions in France,
Italy and Poland; a leader in heavy-duty packaging, growing
strongly in the fast-moving consumer goods sector
Paper – speciality grades, principally produced in France
www.dssmith-kaysersberg.com
LOCATIONS
• DS Smith Kaysersberg has manufacturing operations in
France, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Turkey.
• The Group also has an associate business, Rubezhansk,
in Ukraine.
DS Smith Kaysersberg
provides packaging
solutions which increase
efficiency in retailers’
supply chains. This
integrated corrugated
pallet and box saves
storage and transport
space and raises
productivity in store by
reducing product handling.
Kaysersberg
POINT-OF-PURCHASE SOLUTIONS
PACKAGING
UK PAPER AND CORRUGATED CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN CORRUGATED DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 3
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
Revenue £237 million
Focused on two plastic packaging markets
Returnable transit packaging (RTP) – a leading European
supplier of beverage crates, reusable containers and extruded sheet
Liquid packaging and dispensing (LP&D) – No. 2 globally
in bag-in-box systems and taps
www.dssmith-plastics.com
LOCATIONS
• RTP products are produced in: UK, Belgium, France, Spain,
Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
• LP&D products are produced in: UK, Germany, Bulgaria, USA,
Australia and New Zealand.
• The segment’s two smaller businesses have locations in Israel,
USA, UK, Germany, France and Czech Republic.
DW Plastics solved various
issues for AMP, Belgium’s largest
newspaper distributor, with this
easily-handled crate which has
a lockable lid and a document
holder to keep dispatch notes
safe and clearly visible.
INNOVATIVE FEATURES
Revenue £721 million
The leading European office products
wholesaler — Spicers, supplies a
comprehensive range of own-label
and branded products
Established businesses – leading positions in UK, Ireland,
France and Benelux
Development businesses – growing positions in Germany,
Spain and Italy
www.spicerseurope.com
Spicers’ on-line
ordering systems give
improved customer
service levels, speeding
delivery and order
turnaround times.
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Plastics
LOCATIONS
Spicers’ network of distribution centres comprises:
•UK–9
• Ireland – 1
• France – 6
• Benelux – 1
• Germany – 2
• Spain – 2
• Italy – 1
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
PLASTIC 4 www.dssmith.uk.com
BUSINESS REVIEW
STRENGTH AND ACTION
1MARKET POSITIONS
Our strategic objective to be a significant force
in the markets in which we operate is assisting
us in weathering the current difficult trading
conditions. The market positions we have built
give us a strong base from which to compete.
2OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY
Our continuing focus on operational improvement
has strengthened our businesses for facing today’s
more challenging times.
3CASH AND FINANCING
We have an established record of close attention
to cash management and maintaining a sound
balance sheet. Our financing facilities were
prudently renewed in the summer of 2008.
4MANAGEMENT
The Group’s executive teams have considerable
experience of managing in tough trading
conditions. They have demonstrated their
capabilities in handling the challenges of
changing circumstances and highly
competitive situations.
The strength of DS Smith today and the actions we are taking will position
the Group well for the future. Our action programme, in response to the
present tough trading environment, is firmly focused on the essentials of cost
reduction and cash generation. At the same time, we continue to develop
the Group and find new ways of adding value for our customers and
shareholders. Some examples of how the actions we are taking are
strengthening our position for tomorrow are shown in the following pages.
ACTIONS FOR
TOMORROW
STRENGTH
TODAY
1DEVELOPING OUR
MARKET POSITIONS
To ensure the Group’s future success, we
continue to invest in, and strive to grow, our
market positions. We pursue opportunities
to strengthen our product and service
range, improve our competitive position
and grow geographically.
2COST REDUCTION
In addition to our ongoing drive to reduce
costs, we have taken action to establish
a substantially lower cost base to ensure
the Group’s future competitiveness and
profitability. We have particularly focused
on lowering the Group’s structural costs.
3ADDING VALUE
While focusing on the costs and efficiency of
our operations, our businesses also continually
strive to add value for their customers. They
use their considerable expertise and resources
to provide solutions that improve the efficiency
and profitability of their customers’ businesses.
4CASH GENERATION
A key element of our action programme is the
maintenance of good cash generation. We
are focusing on the reduction of working
capital and are curtailing capital expenditure
to reflect the demands of the present situation. BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 5
EXPANDED SERVICES
Severnside Recycling is growing its business, using its specialist
skills to add high-profile names to its customer list. It offers
a developing range of waste management and recycling
services which help businesses avoid escalating landfill costs.
NEW PRODUCTS
Our £100+ million
investment at Kemsley
Mill has enabled us
to add high-quality
lightweight corrugated
case material (CCM)
to our product range.
This type of CCM is in
strong demand today
and will be an essential
element of any future
CCM product range.
GEOGRAPHIC GROWTH
Spicers has expanded its business
in continental Europe by over
50% in the last three years. The
German and Italian businesses
both made particularly strong
progress in 2008/09.
PACKAGING
DESIGN
At our Impact and
Innovation Centre
we demonstrate
to customers and
retailers how we
are able to add
value for them. We
create packaging
that will increase
sales through stronger
visual identity and
improve supply
chain efficiency
in handling and
transportation. BUSINESS REVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6 www.dssmith.uk.com
I am confident the Group will
continue to manage the impact
of the difficult trading environment.
In common with most manufacturing businesses, DS Smith saw its markets
weaken during the course of our financial year. The pace of decline
accelerated during the second half of the year, when we also faced growing
pressure on prices. The demand for packaging materials for industrial
customers and for plasterboard liner was especially affected. Reduced paper
demand led to significant reductions in corrugated case material (CCM)
prices on the continent, which in turn led to lower CCM prices in the UK.
The impact of these exceptionally difficult market conditions was mitigated by
the continued implementation of the Group’s strategy and management’s
decisive response to implement an action programme to reduce costs and
conserve cash.
As set out in the Strategy section on pages 10 and 11, management
has refocused the business over recent years. The Group is now a net
consumer of CCM. The major markets for its corrugated boxes are for the
fast-moving consumer goods sector, where it has established a leading
position in the supply of retail-ready packaging. It has focused on
innovation in both products and services, in particular, linked to its
expertise in recycling and solving customers’ packaging problems.
As a result, although adjusted operating profit of £94.0 million (2007/08:
£119.6 million) and adjusted earnings per share of 12.6 pence
(2007/08: 19.9 pence) were down on the previous record year, these
results reflect a robust performance in such difficult market conditions.
Management reacted swiftly to the changing market. Early in the financial
year they renegotiated the Group’s major borrowing facilities, extending
repayment terms at limited cost. In December, they announced a
comprehensive programme to reduce costs and conserve cash that will
result in savings of over £26 million a year. The programme to control
working capital was further strengthened during the year such that, despite
the capital expenditure to convert the newly acquired paper machine at
Kemsley, and the cash costs arising from the action programme, the Group
remained cash generative. Free cash flow, before dividends, exceptional
items and net acquisitions, was £59.9 million (2007/08: £84.8 million).
As part of this series of actions designed to ensure the Group remains
financially sound through this period of economic uncertainty, the Board
has decided to recommend a reduced final dividend for 2008/09 of
1.8 pence per share (2007/08: 6.2 pence) which, together with the
interim dividend of 2.6 pence, would give a total dividend for the year
of 4.4 pence (2007/08: 8.8 pence). The Board recognises the importance
of dividends to shareholders and remains committed to the payment of
dividends that reflect the sustainable earnings and cash generation of
the Group over the cycle.
The financial and operational performance of the Group during the year
are set out fully in the following reports, together with an assessment of the
risks facing the Group, its performance on environmental and other matters
of corporate responsibility and reports on the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. During these difficult times, the Board has maintained a strong
focus on identifying and managing risks, ensuring the Group’s financial
position remains strong and on ensuring it is well placed, financially and
operationally, to benefit from recovery in our markets, whenever that might
happen. An increased focus was placed on ensuring the business strategy
was clear and being implemented as well as on shorter-term financial
strength. The strategies for our businesses are set out in this report. The
Board continues to keep the composition of the Group under review.
The Nomination Committee reviews longer-term succession plans both
for the senior Executive team and for the Board. There were no Board
changes during 2008/09. However, with effect from 16 June 2009,
George Adams was appointed Divisional Chief Executive of Spicers,
our Office Products Wholesaling division, and as a result stood down
from the DS Smith Plc Board when his appointment was confirmed on
26 May 2009. George had served as a most effective Non-Executive
Director of DS Smith from 29 January 2008 and I would like to thank
him for his contribution.
Jonathan Nicholls will join the Board of DS Smith Plc as a Non-Executive
Director with effect from 1 December 2009. Jonathan has considerable
Board level experience, including having been Group Finance Director of
Hanson Plc and, most recently, Group Finance Director of Old Mutual Plc
and we look forward to his contribution.
Richard Marton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009 having
served DS Smith Plc as a Non-Executive Director since 13 March 2000.
Richard has made an outstanding contribution during his time in office
and I thank him for his sound advice and wise counsel.
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our colleagues across the world for
their ongoing efforts and commitment. The trading environment in the year
ahead is likely to prove at least as challenging as was the financial year
being reported on. I am confident the Group will continue to manage
the impact of this difficult environment, benefiting from its strong market
positions and the results of its action programme.
PETER JOHNSON
Chairman BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 7
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
We have taken action aimed at
underpinning the Group’s future
results in these challenging trading
conditions.
In 2008/09, the Group’s results were significantly affected by an external
environment that worsened as the year progressed. Adjusted operating
profit at £94.0 million was 21.4% lower than in the previous year. All
our business segments felt the impact of lower demand for their products
and services as a result of the general contraction in economic activity.
This weakening of demand gathered pace in the second half of our
financial year.
Profit before exceptional items and tax was £72.5 million (2007/08:
£111.0 million). As previously advised, the Group has incurred operating
profit exceptional charges in the year of £50.6 million (2007/08:
£1.9 million) of which £23.6 million are non-cash impairment charges,
principally related to our associate business in Ukraine and our packaging
operation in Turkey. After exceptional items, the Group made a post-tax
loss of £11.2 million. After exceptional cash costs the Group was cash
generative, reflecting our ongoing focus on cash management.
We have taken action aimed at underpinning the Group’s future results
in these challenging trading conditions. In December, we announced an
action programme focused on cost reduction and cash generation. This
programme is now well advanced and we are on course to achieve the
expected annual benefits of over £26 million per annum. The programme
has an up-front cash cost of circa £27 million, giving a payback period
of just over one year. The programme includes restructuring activities
designed to improve performance in currently underperforming products
and territories, together with actions to optimise performance in areas of
strength. We remain committed to exiting non-core businesses and smaller
businesses which consistently underperform.
Net capital expenditure in the year of £79.7 million (2007/08: £57.2 million)
reflected the costs of the conversion of New Thames Mill, acquired in
February 2008, which now forms part of our Kemsley paper manufacturing
operation. This expenditure is enabling the Group to compete strongly in
the growing market for lightweight packaging. In the coming year it is
anticipated that net capital expenditure will be held below £50 million.
The net deficit on our defined benefits pension schemes increased by
£83.5 million to £138.0 million, the principal component of which is
the UK defined benefit pension scheme. We are keeping the position
as regards the deficit of this scheme under review. It was closed to
new members in April 2005.
The Group’s adjusted return on average capital employed was lower in
2008/09 at 9.3% (2007/08: 12.9%). Our returns were affected by both
the general business environment and by the inherent cyclicality of parts of
our business, especially corrugated case material (CCM). Our target is
to exceed the Group’s estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital
of 11.8% over the industry cycle. The actions taken to reduce costs and
conserve cash, together with the ongoing development of our strong
market positions are aimed at achieving our targeted returns.
GROUP
• Adjusted profits down: a robust performance given the
economic conditions
• Strong cash flow
• Significant restructuring under way
• Full-year dividend reduced
PACKAGING
• Successful modification and start-up of our machine producing
lightweight CCM at Kemsley
• Weaker demand affected all our markets
• UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging results were impacted
by the fall in CCM prices
• Strong performance in continental Europe
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
• Slow-down in demand across Europe
• UK – reinforced position but margins under pressure
• Continental Europe – good performance, particularly in Germany
and Italy
ASSOCIATE
• Exceptional charge taken to impair fully the carrying value
of Rubezhansk
SUMMARY OF THE YEAR BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
8 www.dssmith.uk.com
The Group extended its financing facilities in August 2008 with the renewal
of its five-year syndicated revolving facility of £287.5 million (previously
£250 million). As a consequence, the weighted average maturity of the
Group’s committed borrowing facilities, as at 30 April 2009, was four
years and one month.
OPERATING OVERVIEW
Our two activities, Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling, are
managed through a decentralised structure.
PACKAGING
Across Europe, packaging demand fell progressively throughout the year.
The current level of market decline is at levels that are unprecedented in
recent times. Packaging demand in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG)
sector has held up better than in the industrial sectors and we have benefited
from our actions in recent years to focus on this area of the market.
Lower box demand has caused CCM prices to fall significantly. This is
putting some pressure on box prices.
The cost of our key raw material, waste paper, declined during the course
of the year, however, this is now rising as a result of renewed demand for
waste paper from the Far East, especially China. The current cost of waste
paper is high relative to CCM prices. Energy costs followed a similar
trend, declining during 2008/09 and now moving upwards.
Profits in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging operations declined
significantly, reflecting not just lower demand but also our high exposure
in the UK to movements in CCM prices. Results in our Continental European
Corrugated Packaging business were very good, with its performance
being assisted by its status as a net buyer of CCM and by the strength
of the euro.
Profits in Plastic Packaging declined as a result of lower demand. We have
a relatively large exposure to the industrial sector in this product area.
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In 2008/09, the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment, which
accounted for 37.3% of Group revenue and 54.0% of Group average
capital employed, reported a slight increase in revenue to £785.8 million
(2007/08: £753.2 million). Revenue benefited from a tolling contract with
the previous owner of the New Thames Mill. This revenue supported the
fixed costs of the site during the period when the mill was being converted
to produce lightweight CCM. Operating profit was lower at £36.5 million
(2007/08: £68.5 million), primarily due to reduced sales volumes, the
reduction in CCM prices and a weaker paper sales mix during the second
half of the year.
Severnside Recycling, which supplies the waste paper raw material for our
own recycled paper mills, experienced a small decline in profit on slightly
lower sales volumes; this was due to the reduced availability of waste as a
consequence of the slow-down in the economy. Sourcing of the additional
raw material required for the new lightweight CCM production capacity at
Kemsley went well. Severnside is continuing to expand its activities and
has secured a number of new retail customers.
Our UK paper business was significantly affected by the lower demand for
both CCM and plasterboard liner, the latter due to the sharp decline in the
construction sector. Margins were also put under pressure by the relatively
high cost of raw materials. In general, demand for paper to supply boxes
to the FMCG sector has performed better than that relating to the industrial
sector. We have been producing high-quality lightweight CCM at Kemsley
since January 2009. This project was completed on time and with a very
favourable customer reaction to the product’s performance.
Our UK box business produced a good result in a market that weakened
considerably in the second half of the year. Our emphasis on the FMCG
sector and higher value-added products assisted our performance
significantly, when compared to the UK corrugated industry as a whole.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
Despite lower volumes, sales revenue increased to £363.4 million
(2007/08: £346.0 million) reflecting the benefit of movements in
exchange rates. Operating profits increased to £30.4 million (2007/08:
£20.3 million), assisted by reduced CCM costs. In France, our corrugated
box business increased its operating profit, thanks to efficiency improvements
and our ongoing focus on higher value-added sectors of the market.
Despite poor market conditions, our Italian business performed well
primarily as a result of its strong position in the FMCG sector. Our Polish
operation performed very strongly as a result of continued sales growth
and a good product mix. Market conditions in Turkey remain particularly
depressed and we have taken an impairment charge of £5.0 million
against the assets of our Turkish business.
Profits at our Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, were significantly
affected by an exchange rate loss incurred as a result of the devaluation
of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US dollar. Rubezhansk has a US
dollar denominated loan of $87 million related to its investment project
to increase its paper capacity and develop a capability to produce
plasterboard liner. Currency movements on the loan resulted in an
exceptional loss of £5.1 million. Reflecting the issue with the loan, an
exceptional charge of £18.1 million has been taken to impair fully the
carrying value of our investment in Rubezhansk. There is no recourse to
the Group in relation to the loan. The cumulative net cash cost of our
investment in Rubezhansk has been less than £5 million, after taking into
account the acquisition investment less the dividends received. Rubezhansk
continues to trade profitably and to generate cash. We are continuing to
work with our partner and the lending banks to resolve the position in
relation to the loan.
Plastic Packaging
Including the positive impact of foreign exchange translation, revenue
in Plastic Packaging increased by 6.0% over the year to £236.9 million
(2007/08: £223.4 million) and adjusted operating profit fell to
£7.0 million (2007/08: £10.7 million). The returnable transit packaging
(RTP) sector experienced lower profitability due to reduced demand.
RTP volumes were impacted by the decline in economic activity across
all our major markets: beverage crates, automotive and construction.
The liquid packaging and dispensing (LP&D) sector saw increased volumes
in both taps and bags. Overall profits were ahead of the prior year but
prices remained under pressure. Our US business in this sector performed
well. In Europe, further restructuring has taken place, which, will reduce
the cost base during the current year. The benefits of this action will
augment the benefits that will be derived from the restructuring of our
German bag-in-box operations, which was completed in April 2009.
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
Overall revenue increased by 11.7% to £720.5 million (2007/08:
£644.9 million), reflecting some sales growth combined with the translation
benefits of the strong euro. The trading environment became progressively
more difficult as the year progressed; this resulted in de-stocking and
down-trading by both our customers and end-users. We have increased
sales, almost entirely in electronic office supplies (EOS), which is a
growing, but lower margin, sector of the market. The decline in the
non-EOS or traditional products market has continued. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 9
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
In Spicers UK, turnover increased but operating profit came under significant
and increasing pressure. This was due to much lower sales of traditional
products, as well as the highly competitive nature of this market. A number
of actions based on improving the sales mix and lowering costs are under
way to reverse this downward trend.
In the continental European businesses, which account for just over 50%
of Spicers’ total revenue, profit was slightly ahead of the previous year,
assisted by the strength of the euro. Difficult trading conditions for our
more established businesses depressed both revenue and operating profit,
but results were good relative to their markets. Our developing German
and Italian operations continued to grow both their revenue and profit.
George Adams, who has taken up the role of Chief Executive of Spicers
in June 2009, brings with him a wealth of relevant business experience
both in the UK and Europe as well as a good understanding of the
Spicers business.
The current year will be testing, especially in the UK, but Spicers is well
placed to take advantage of improved economic circumstances, due to
its strong market positions.
STRATEGY
The Group has two distinct activities, Packaging and Office Products
Wholesaling. The Board regularly reviews the structure of the Group.
Each activity has a well-established strategy. The key elements of these
strategies are described in detail on pages 10 and 11. We believe that
progress in the implementation of these strategies has contributed to our
robust performance in 2008/09. In addition, in the current difficult economic
environment, we believe our strategies have established a strong base
from which we can develop further when activity levels improve.
We will continue to drive for progress in the implementation of our
strategies, but given the current outlook for the trading environment,
the pace of development is likely to be slower.
OUR PEOPLE
The employees of DS Smith have shown themselves to be not only tough
but also resilient, in the face of the most difficult trading conditions seen
in a generation. I feel confident in saying that because of their dedication
and resourcefulness we have performed at levels above those which
might otherwise have been expected. They have my thanks.
OUTLOOK
Economic indicators continue to show a global economy in recession.
The timing of any recovery remains uncertain. Although it is early in our
financial year, trading is in line with our expectations. Our consistent
strategy to build leadership positions is standing us in good stead in the
downturn and we are confident that this, combined with the continued
implementation of our action programme, will underpin our results. We
expect to benefit strongly from the upturn when it arrives.
TONY THORNE
Group Chief Executive BUSINESS REVIEW
STRATEGY
10 www.dssmith.uk.com
GROUP STRATEGY
The Group has two distinct activities, Packaging and Office Products
Wholesaling. The Board regularly reviews the structure of the Group.
Each activity has a well-established strategy. The key elements of these
strategies are outlined below. We believe that progress in implementation
has contributed to our robust performance in 2008/09. This progress has
included the development of our recycling business, the enlargement of our
corrugated box business, particularly through growth in products for the fast-
moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector, and the continued development of
our Office Products Wholesaling operations in continental Europe.
In addition, in the current difficult economic environment, we believe our
strategies have established a strong base from which we can develop
further when activity levels improve.
We will continue to drive for progress in the implementation of our
strategies, but given the current outlook for the trading environment, the
pace of development is likely to be slower. In the short term, we will focus
on maximising returns from our existing strong market positions, cost
reduction and cash conservation. Capital investment will be limited, highly
selective and focused on optimising our current asset base. We will exit
businesses that are non-core, or are not expected to meet our financial
objectives through the industry cycle.
PACKAGING STRATEGY
Our strategy is to:
• enhance our leadership position in cost-efficient supply chain solutions
across our chosen geographies, particularly in relation to retail-ready
packaging, decorative promotional packaging for the retail market
and heavy-duty packaging for the industrial segments;
• increase our leadership position across the supply chain in the UK
and to build strong businesses in selected continental European
countries, concentrating on the production and marketing of
corrugated packaging;
• provide a range of innovative and cost-efficient returnable transit
packaging (RTP) solutions for selected industrial and retail market
segments;
• be a high specification, low-cost supplier of corrugated case material
(CCM) for the packaging industry and plasterboard liner for the
construction industry; and
• extend our recycling capability to ensure that we have a cost-effective
supply of waste paper for our paper operations and a market-leading
recycling business.
Our strategic goals are:
• to be recognised as a leader in transit packaging solutions and promotional
packaging, concentrated on corrugated and plastic packaging;
• to be an overall net purchaser of CCM; in the UK, however, to be
a strong net supplier of CCM; and
• to safeguard the supply and minimise the cost to our paper-making
operations of their key raw material by managing a total quantity of
waste paper greater than is used internally; the balance being sold
to other users.
In the UK we are seeking to maintain our leadership positions in all three
parts of the paper and corrugated supply chain, through both organic
development and acquisition. We believe that a combination of scale
and the interaction between our three businesses will allow us to meet
our target cost of capital through the industry cycle.
• Severnside is the UK’s leading collector and processor of waste paper.
• St Regis is the leading and most cost-competitive UK producer of
CCM. The recent commissioning of a machine to make lightweight
CCM completes our range of packaging papers and gives us a high
specification product in a growth sector of the market. Despite the
significant volumes of CCM used in our UK corrugated business, we
remain a net CCM supplier in the UK. Additionally, we are a leader
in the supply of top quality plasterboard liner to the European
construction industry.
• DS Smith Packaging is the UK market leader in the production and
marketing of corrugated packaging. We will continue to increase
our capability to supply the FMCG sector of the market, which is
more resilient than the industrial sector.
A significant element of our Packaging strategy continues to be the
drive for growth both in the UK and in selected geographical markets in
continental Europe. We will concentrate on the production and marketing
of corrugated packaging, rather than CCM, since our objective is for the
Group, as a whole, to be a net buyer of CCM. In light of the fluctuation
in CCM prices we believe this net buyer status will provide us with a
more consistent earnings profile through the industry cycle.
The Group is developing sizeable and highly profitable businesses in
France, Italy and Poland. Our Polish business now acts as a hub for
supply into other East European countries. We also have a market-leading
associate company in Ukraine.
Our Continental European Corrugated Packaging business is a market leader
in heavy-duty industrial packaging, a high value-added product which is
competitively supplied to both local and export markets. Through our
investment in equipment and people we are increasing the proportion of
FMCG packaging products within our European portfolio. The FMCG market
segment is growing and we believe it will be less impacted by overall
economic factors than the industrial packaging sector in the longer term.
In our Plastic Packaging business we are focused on two sectors: liquid
packaging and dispensing (LP&D); and RTP. We are number two globally
in LP&D with leading market positions in Europe, the USA and Australasia.
The RTP market is highly fragmented but we have built good positions in
our selected market sectors. Going forward, we will seek to consolidate
our existing positions and grow further in RTP.
We believe that progress in the
implementation of our strategy
has contributed to our robust
performance in 2008/09. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 11
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
07 8.7%
12.9%
9.3%
08
09
ADJUSTED RETURN
ON AVERAGE CAPITAL
EMPLOYED
Target: to achieve an
adjusted return on average
capital employed over
the business cycle that is
comfortably in excess of the
Group’s weighted average
cost of capital, which we
estimate to be 11.8%
(before tax).
Deﬁnition: operating
proﬁt before exceptional
items divided by average
capital employed, expressed
as a percentage.
OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
07 8.0%
9.2%
7.8%
08
09
07 13.1 pence
19.9 pence
12.6 pence
08
09
07 1.3 times
1.4 times
1.8 times
08
09
ADJUSTED EBITDA
MARGIN
Target: to generate an
adjusted EBITDA margin
which enables us to grow
our dividend while
providing funds for
development.
Deﬁnition: earnings
before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortisation
and exceptional items
divided by revenue,
expressed as a percentage.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS
PER SHARE
Target: to achieve
an improved adjusted
earnings per share
between one business
cycle and the next.
Deﬁnition: net proﬁt
attributable to shareholders
before exceptional items
divided by the weighted
average number of shares
outstanding (see note 8 on
page 69).
NET DEBT/
ADJUSTED EBITDA
Target: to maintain a
healthy balance sheet,
sufﬁcient to support our
dividend through the
business cycle.
Deﬁnition: net debt
divided by earnings
before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortisation
and exceptional items.
Our financial objective in Packaging remains to generate an adjusted
return on average capital employed over the business cycle in excess of
the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, which we estimate
to be 11.8%. Due to the prevailing market conditions we are currently
well below this target. We believe that the actions we have planned,
and those we have currently under way, will ensure we are well placed
to meet our financial objectives when the economy improves.
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
Our strategy is to be a pan-European, highly efficient wholesaler of office
products. Our primary aim is to support our network of dealers in growing
their share of the market. We especially concentrate on developing our
fulfilment service for those dealers who outsource their logistics and also on
supplying products that resellers choose to sell but not to stock. We provide
this support through: offering a wide range of both traditional office
products and electronic office supplies; cost-effective purchasing, both on
a local and pan-European basis; stocking, breaking bulk and distributing
small quantities cost-efficiently; the production of catalogues and other
marketing tools and giving access to highly effective e-commerce packages.
Today, approximately 50% of our sales are in the UK and Ireland, with the
other half spread across the major markets of France and Benelux, where
we have significant market shares, and Germany, Spain and Italy, where
our businesses are in a development phase. We are prepared to consider
further geographic expansion but in the short term our emphasis will be
on: raising profits substantially in the UK and Ireland; strengthening further
our market positions in the continental European markets in which we have
an established position; and extending our businesses in our developing
markets, especially Germany and Italy.
Our longer-term financial objective for Office Products Wholesaling is
to generate a return on average capital employed in excess of 20%.
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
Our aim is to generate enhanced returns and cash flows for our investors
over the longer term, while maintaining a strong balance sheet. We
recognise that there is a significant degree of cyclicality in parts of our
portfolio and the effects of this are particularly apparent as a result of
the current downturns in both the general economic and the CCM sector
cycles. Our strategy and operational actions are designed to manage the
negative impacts of the volatility of the Group’s results through the cycle,
while ensuring that there is sufficient profit growth in the less cyclical parts
of our packaging operations to achieve long-term progress.
We measure the financial success of our strategy using the financial
key performance indicators (KPIs) described below. Our performance
in 2008/09 was significantly affected by the deterioration in trading
conditions. Our action plans are designed to improve the Group’s
performance against these KPIs within the context of the economic
and industry cycles. BUSINESS REVIEW
DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP
12 www.dssmith.uk.com
DSSmith–internationalpackaging
supplierandofficeproductswholesaler
The Group’s activities of Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling
are managed through a decentralised structure covering four segments:
THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING SUPPLY CHAIN
Severnside Recycling
Waste paper collected – 1,700 CCM – 750 Boxes and board – 600
Other speciality papers – 250
St Regis Paper DS Smith Packaging
Annual volume
(’000 tonnes)
DS Smith – UK
Solid board and speciality
papers – 220 Boxes and board – 400
DS Smith Kaysersberg –
France and Turkey
DS Smith Kaysersberg –
France, Italy, Poland, Turkey,
Czech Republic and Slovakia Annual volume
(’000 tonnes)
DS Smith –
Continental Europe
–
DS Smith operates in all parts
of the corrugated packaging
supply chain – waste paper,
paper and boxes – but the
balance between these is
different in the UK and
continental Europe. In total,
the Group is a net buyer
of CCM, its box-making
operations using more CCM
than the Group produces.
In the UK, we collect more
waste paper than we require
for our paper mills and we
produce more CCM than we
consume in making boxes.
In continental Europe we
are predominantly a box
manufacturer and a large
net buyer of CCM.
WASTE
PAPER
PAPER
(CORRUGATED CASE
MATERIAL – CCM)
RECYCLED
CORRUGATED
PACKAGING
(BOXES)
PACKAGING
UK PAPER AND CORRUGATED
A leading position in the whole UK corrugated
packaging supply chain.
This segment comprises three businesses: Severnside Recycling, which
collects waste paper and other materials for recycling; St Regis, which
processes the waste paper to produce recycled paper, the majority of
which is corrugated case material (CCM) used in the manufacture of
corrugated packaging; and DS Smith Packaging, which converts CCM
into corrugated board and boxes. These three businesses operating in the
corrugated packaging supply chain are heavily interdependent, although
all three maintain open-market positions to ensure competitiveness.
Severnside Recycling is the leading UK collector and merchant of waste
paper, the principal raw material for producing recycled paper. In total,
annually it sources 1.7 million tonnes of waste paper by means of
collections through its 16 UK depots and open-market purchases from
supermarkets and third-party waste merchants. In addition, Severnside’s
facilities management function provides general recycling and waste
disposal services for customers in a number of sectors. Severnside’s
main sources of waste paper include large supermarket groups and
other retailers, other commercial and industrial organisations and local
authorities. The largest single source of waste paper accounts for 16% of
the total amount sourced. Severnside particularly concentrates on sourcing
used corrugated packaging, referred to as old corrugated containers
(OCC), which is the most suitable form of waste paper for producing
recycled CCM. Severnside supplies all of the 1.2 million tonnes of waste
paper required by the St Regis paper mills and it sells 0.5 million tonnes
on the open market.
St Regis’ four paper mills produce approximately 1.0 million tonnes
of 100% recycled paper. St Regis is the leading UK producer of CCM,
which accounts for over 70% of the paper it produces, and is a leading
European producer of plasterboard liner, which accounts for approximately
15% of its production; the remainder comprises other speciality paper
grades. The Group’s Corrugated Packaging operations account for around
55% of St Regis’ CCM sales. St Regis’ external sales are made to around
340 customers; no single external customer accounts for more than 5%
of the Group’s total UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion square metres per annum of
corrugated packaging at 31 factories located throughout the UK. It is the
leading supplier of corrugated packaging to the UK market with a market
share of around 25%. Approximately 65% of sales go into the fast-moving
consumer goods (FMCG) sector, predominantly for food and beverages,
with the remainder being principally for the consumer durables and
industrial sectors. DS Smith Packaging supplies many of the leading FMCG
companies; no individual customer accounts for more than 2% of the total
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 13
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
Strong positions in chosen national markets.
In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.5 billion square
metres per annum of corrugated packaging at 13 factories located in
France, Italy, Poland, Turkey, Czech Republic and Slovakia. The bulk of its
CCM requirements are sourced from third parties. It has estimated market
shares of 6% in France, 3% in Italy, 8% in Poland and 4% in Turkey. The
business has been growing strongly in Poland and the Czech Republic.
DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million tonnes of recycled paper
(principally solid board for use in the manufacture of detergent boxes)
at two mills in France and one mill in Turkey. DS Smith also owns 49.6%
of the leading paper and corrugated packaging business in Ukraine;
the results of this business are reported under associates.
The Group’s continental corrugated packaging operations are particularly
strong in heavy-duty and litho-laminated packaging. Approximately 45%
of sales are to the FMCG sector and the remainder is to the consumer
durables, industrial and other sectors. This segment has a large and
diverse range of customers, none of which accounts individually for more
than 6% of Continental European Corrugated Packaging’s total revenue.
CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN CORRUGATED
PLASTIC
Focused on two plastic packaging markets.
DS Smith Plastics holds a major European position in industrial returnable
transit packaging (RTP) and is a leading worldwide supplier of liquid
packaging and dispensing systems (LP&D).
The Group is a leading European supplier of RTP. Its extensive product
range includes reusable containers, boxes and pallet systems, injection-
moulded crates and semi-ﬁnished extruded sheet. These products are
supplied to the automotive, beverage, pharmaceutical and other markets
from ten locations in the UK, France, Belgium, Spain, Poland, Czech
Republic and Slovakia.
In LP&D, it is ranked as number two globally in bag-in-box packaging
systems and injection-moulded taps and dispensers, which are supplied
worldwide to the soft drinks, wine, food and other industry sectors from
eight locations in the UK, Germany, Bulgaria, the USA, Australia and
New Zealand.
Additionally, the segment contains two small speciality businesses:
Packaging Management, which provides logistics services, particularly
for pallet and plastic layer pad pools; and a development business,
StePac, which specialises in modiﬁed atmosphere packaging for
preserving the quality of fresh fruit and vegetables in transit.
OFFICE PRODUCTS
WHOLESALING
The leading European office products
wholesaler.
Spicers is the number one European wholesaler of office products; it
has leading positions in each of the UK, Ireland, France and the Benelux
region, and it is building its position in continental Europe with development
businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy. Its network of distribution centres
comprises: UK – 9; Ireland – 1; France – 6; Benelux – 1; Germany – 2;
Spain – 2; and Italy – 1.
Spicers provides a wholesaling service to its customer base of office
products dealers and resellers, who principally supply small and medium-
sized offices. It supplies approximately 12,500 dealers throughout Europe
and no single dealer customer accounts for more than 4% of Spicers’ total
revenue. Spicers’ product range supplied across Europe of up to 22,000
product lines comprises its own 5-Star brand and other branded products
of traditional stationery items, electronic office supplies, office furniture,
janitorial supplies and office catering and vending provisions. Its range
is communicated to its dealers and the offices they supply through printed
catalogues and electronic systems; orders are now principally submitted
to Spicers on-line or by other electronic means.
Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day or an overnight, next-day
delivery service; it also provides the dealers with marketing and promotional
support. The business is highly transaction-intensive with approximately
700,000 line-items being processed weekly. The maintenance of reliable
and efficient systems that are capable of handling the high volume of
customer orders received daily, either on-line or by telephone, is a key
feature of the business. Spicers’ business model is explained further on
page 21.
The division purchases a wide range of polymers and plastic ﬁlms, principally
polypropylene, high density polyethylene and polycarbonate. This segment
has a widely spread customer base and no single customer accounts for
more than 5% of DS Smith Plastics’ total revenue. BUSINESS REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW
14 www.dssmith.uk.com
Within the overall weaker market
for boxes there is a continuing
strong trend towards the
greater use of lighter-weight
corrugated packaging.
PACKAGING
PAPER AND CORRUGATED
MARKET OVERVIEW
THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING MARKET
The European market for corrugated packaging in 2008 is estimated to
have been approximately €23 billion, equivalent to circa 22 million tonnes
or 40 billion square metres
1
, of which the UK market is estimated to be 9%.
Demand for corrugated packaging is principally influenced by overall
economic activity and manufacturing output.
In the calendar year 2008, the European market for corrugated packaging,
measured in square metres, declined by 2.8%
2
. Demand in western Europe
fell by 3.3% and within this the UK market fell by 3.5%. Demand in eastern
and central Europe continued to be relatively stronger but only grew by
0.1%. Owing to cost and environmental pressures, there is a continuing
emphasis in most markets on reducing the average weight of packaging.
As a result, European demand when measured by weight declined by 3.6%
and the UK market, which is at the forefront of the ‘lightweighting’ trend, fell
by 4.6%. Across Europe, demand deteriorated as the year progressed and
this trend continued in the early months of 2009.
Usage of corrugated packaging (boxes) for the fast-moving consumer
goods (FMCG) sector, which accounts for approximately two-thirds of the
corrugated market, has been affected by the slow-down in retail demand
but has remained significantly stronger than that for industrial market
sectors. Demand from the FMCG sector continues to benefit from the trend
towards the use of retail-ready packaging (RRP), which can be readily
converted from its initial role as a protective transit pack into a box or tray
that can be placed on display in the retail store. RRP benefits retailers by
reducing the manual work involved in loading goods onto store shelves
and reducing the amount of damage to goods in store, while enabling
products to be presented more attractively. RRP requires more sophisticated
packaging manufacturing capabilities for cutting, printing and gluing
the corrugated board to form the more complicated box structures. The
increased proportion of these higher value-added boxes, often requiring
multi-passes within the production process, has contributed to capacity
utilisation across the corrugated industry remaining higher than would
be indicated by the overall level of demand.
Usage of corrugated packaging for the home delivery of products continues
to grow in association with the growth of purchasing through the internet.
In contrast, the usage of boxes in most industrial manufacturing sectors
has been severely affected by the sharp downturn in industrial activity
throughout Europe. Demand from the automotive, construction and
chemical industries has been particularly weak.
Within the overall weaker market for boxes there is a continuing strong trend
towards the greater use of lighter-weight corrugated packaging. This trend is
being driven not only by the continuing pressure through the supply chain to
reduce the cost of packaging but also the increased attention being given to
the quantity and type of packaging being used in order to reduce the amount
of waste going to landfill. Corrugated packaging is fully recyclable and the
trend towards use of lighter-weight boxes has been enabled by the increasing
availability of high-quality lightweight recycled corrugated case material
(CCM) with good strength characteristics. This lightweight CCM allows box
manufacturers to produce packaging with high performance characteristics
while reducing the weight of material used.
Supply of corrugated board and boxes is generally relatively local to the
point of production, with a typical operational radius of approximately 150
miles, owing to customers’ service requirements and the proportionately high
transport costs for a low-density product. Pricing and margins in corrugated
packaging are strongly influenced by developments in the price of CCM, the
paper that is the principal component in corrugated packaging, and which
typically accounts for around 50% of the cost of a box.
ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW
We have developed Severnside
Recycling into a significant asset for
the Group. In addition to being a major
collector of waste paper for recycling,
it is now one of the UK’s largest
collectors of plastic waste for recycling.
From its headquarters in South Wales,
it co-ordinates the collection of waste
from circa 12,500 business locations
and provides a range of waste
management services.
STRENGTH TODAY
20 times
We collect, each year, sufficient
waste paper for recycling to fill
the bowl of Wembley Stadium
circa 20 times.
EXPANDING OUR RECYCLING SERVICES
1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers/DS Smith estimates
2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers Corrugated board is cut to the
required size before its ﬁnal
conversion into a box.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 15
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
THE CORRUGATED CASE MATERIAL MARKET
Whereas boxes are generally sold locally, CCM is sold on a pan-European
basis and pricing is therefore affected by pan-European supply and
demand. The total demand for CCM in Europe (including eastern and
central Europe but not Russia) in 2008 was circa 25 million tonnes.
The market for CCM in Europe is dependent upon European demand for
corrugated packaging, as the imports and exports of unfilled boxes are
negligible. Approximately 80% of the CCM used in Europe is made from
recycled fibre, with the balance principally comprising kraftliner, which is
made from virgin wood pulp.
The lower demand for boxes has resulted in reduced demand for CCM.
However, within the overall CCM market there is strong demand for high-
quality, lightweight CCM to produce lighter-weight packaging. The growth
in the usage of lightweight CCM continues to be limited by the available
supply of lightweight paper as the majority of the existing CCM machines
are unable to manufacture lightweight papers cost-effectively or to an
acceptable quality. This increased demand for high-quality lightweight
CCM is resulting in the addition of new CCM capacity capable of
producing lightweight paper. In January 2009, the Group started
production of its ‘K-light’ lightweight CCM product at Kemsley. Other
European producers plan to commence production of lightweight CCM
on new machines located in Poland, Hungary and Germany during the
THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING RECYCLING PROCESS
Boxesfilled anddelivered
Paper converted into board and then boxes
Paper fibres recycled into paper
Boxesusedand disposedoffor recycling
THE
CORRUGATED
LOOP
DS Smith’s operations play
a significant role in the first
three stages of the corrugated
packaging recycling process.
The fibres in corrugated
boxes can be back on the
shelf in-store within 14 days
of disposal; their re-use
minimises waste disposal to
landfill. In the UK, over 80%
of corrugated packaging
is recycled.
Corrugated boxes protect
products, reduce product
wastage, enable more
efficient and lower-cost
handling and transportation
and are increasingly used to
provide strong visual display
in-store. Approximately two-
thirds are used for food,
beverages and other fast-
moving consumer goods.
Usedboxesandpapercollected,sortedandbaled
CCM reels are shipped from the
paper mill to a box plant for conversion
into corrugated board. BUSINESS REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED
16 www.dssmith.uk.com
second half of 2009 and in 2010. This new capacity, which is expected
to be started in 2009 and 2010, will produce circa 1.5 million tonnes
per annum when it is fully operational. It is anticipated that the production
from the new machines will principally be targeted at satisfying the rapidly
growing European demand for lightweight paper.
During 2008 and 2009, a number of closures of older recycled CCM
machines, representing circa 0.8 million tonnes of capacity, have been
announced and implemented across the industry. Despite these closures
it is estimated that there is currently an oversupply of some three to four
million tonnes of CCM in Europe as a result of the current lower demand
for boxes.
CCM AND BOX PRICES
The reduced demand for corrugated packaging during 2008 resulted in
an increase in European industry CCM stocks and this, coupled with the
developing oversupply position, led to a progressive weakening of the
price of recycled CCM. In continental Europe recycled CCM prices fell by
approximately 50%
3
between December 2007 and April 2009. Recycled
CCM prices in the UK, which were supported to some extent by the
weakness of sterling, fell by approximately 30% over the same period.
The combination of weaker demand and lower CCM prices has resulted
in some reduction in box prices. This reduction has been more marked in
continental Europe than in the UK.
WASTE PAPER
Waste paper, the principal raw material for recycled CCM, is a globally
traded commodity. The price of old corrugated containers (OCC), the
principal grade of waste paper used for producing CCM fell sharply in
autumn 2008 as a result of substantially reduced demand from Asia. The
price of OCC has firmed in recent months as a result of some recovery in
purchasing from Asia and the lower level of availability in Europe, which
is due to the lower overall level of economic activity. In the UK, the value
of Packaging Recovery Notes (PRNs), which are issued as evidence that
packaging has been reprocessed in compliance with the UK Packaging
Waste Regulations, has remained at a low level.
UK PAPER AND CORRUGATED PACKAGING
Results were affected by lower
demand and a sharp fall in the
price of CCM.
2008/09 2007/08
Revenue – £m 785.8 753.2
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 36.5 68.5
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 73.2 100.4
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth – % 4.3% 9.6%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 4.6% 9.1%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 9.3% 13.3%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 6.7% 14.3%
* before exceptional items of £18.2 million (2007/08: £nil)
2008/09 PERFORMANCE
Results in the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment were
adversely affected by lower demand and a sharp fall in the price of CCM.
Our corrugated box business performed well despite a lower demand for
boxes but this was not sufficient to offset the weaker results in our paper
business. Revenue advanced by 4.3% to £785.8 million; on a like-for-like
basis, excluding New Thames Mill, acquired in February 2008, revenue
declined by 4.4%. Adjusted operating profit was significantly lower at
£36.5 million (2007/08: £68.5 million).
Our waste collection business, Severnside Recycling, performed
satisfactorily despite the effects of large swings in the price of waste
material during the year and lower sales volumes. The amount of waste
available for collection was lower due to the reduced levels of activity
at retailers and other businesses. The dislocation in the market for waste
caused by the sharply reduced demand from Asia resulted in Severnside
acquiring a number of significant new customers, who recognised the
benefits of Severnside’s expertise and infrastructure for waste collection
and recycling. The Group’s reprocessing capability at its paper mills and
the Group’s own requirement for waste paper were increased during the
year by the start-up of the converted paper machine at Kemsley which
produces lightweight CCM. In addition to fulfilling its primary role of
securing the required quantities of fibre for our UK paper mills, Severnside
developed further its value-added waste management services in response
to growing demand, which is being stimulated by government action to
reduce the amount of waste going to landfill. During the course of the year,
Severnside and our UK box business, DS Smith Packaging, have further
strengthened their marketing collaboration for our ‘cradle-to-cradle’
environmental capability. Customers are increasingly recognising the
benefits of the Group’s expertise in the design of waste-minimising
packaging, the manufacture of fully recyclable boxes and waste
recycling and disposal services.
St Regis, our UK paper business, was affected by significantly lower sales
volume and a squeeze on its margins due to the fall in the price of CCM
and continuing high input costs. These factors increasingly affected results
during the second half of the year. In addition to the lower demand for
CCM as a result of reduced box demand, plasterboard liner sales were
severely affected by the slow-down in the construction industry. Production
at the mills was adjusted in recognition of the reduced level of demand.
3 Source: RISI, Inc. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 17
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
In January 2009, production of lightweight CCM commenced on schedule
on the recently acquired and modified paper machine at Kemsley, which
has an initial capacity of 260,000 tonnes per annum. The quality of the
‘K-light’ product being produced is exceeding our high expectations and
there is strong demand for this lightweight paper despite the generally
weak demand for CCM as a whole. Although prices currently being
obtained for the product are below those anticipated when the project was
initiated, this investment has, we believe, materially strengthened the long-
term competitiveness of our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging business.
It has established us as a leader in high-quality lighter-weight packaging
and given us a significant capability as well as an increased share of this
growth market segment.
As a result of the lower overall demand for CCM, we closed, with effect
from 1 May 2009, the PM1 machine at Kemsley, which was the Group’s
oldest paper machine and had a capacity of 75,000 tonnes per annum.
DS Smith Packaging, our UK box business, achieved a good result,
maintaining its share in a weaker overall market. Prices began to come
under pressure during the second half of the year. We benefited from our
expanded and strengthened position in the FMCG sector of the market
and particularly from our focus on RRP, which continues to increase its
share of the market. We are continuing to develop our innovative supply
chain support service, as part of which we work with customers to
produce packaging solutions that will reduce customers’ transportation
and handling costs. In our sheet feeding operations, which supply
corrugated sheet to box converters, we have retained our market share
and have had a positive response to the use of our ‘K-light’ material.
We have adjusted capacity levels and costs in our corrugated operations
to reflect the reduced demand and changes in product mix.
As we enter 2009/10, the recent trends in both demand and pricing
across the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment have been
adverse and energy and waste paper input costs are exerting further
pressure on our margins. We have taken action to reduce costs and raise
operational performance and are focused on maximising the opportunities
presented by our strong market positions.
ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW
Our investment at Kemsley to produce
lightweight CCM makes St Regis the first
and only significant UK supplier of this
type of paper. Lightweight CCM is in
strong demand and Kemsley’s product
is acknowledged by customers as being
of a very high quality. The investment
project was highly cost-effective and
was completed on time despite its very
tight schedule.
5m miles
St Regis, the UK’s leading supplier
of recycled paper, produces circa
5 million miles of paper each year.
STRENGTH TODAY
LEADING THE WAY IN LIGHTWEIGHT CCM
The new stock preparation plant
was a major part of the investment to
modify New Thames Mill at Kemsley.
Production of lightweight CCM
at New Thames Mill began on
schedule in January 2009. BUSINESS REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED
18 www.dssmith.uk.com
CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN
CORRUGATED PACKAGING
We achieved a strong result despite
weak demand across our markets.
2008/09 2007/08
Revenue – £m 363.4 346.0
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 30.4 20.3
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 45.8 33.9
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth – % 5.0% 12.3%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 8.4% 5.9%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 12.6% 9.8%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 15.2% 10.9%
* before exceptional items of £24.7 million (2007/08: £nil)
2008/09 PERFORMANCE
The Continental European Corrugated Packaging segment achieved a
strong result despite weak demand across its markets. Revenue increased
by 5% to £363.4 million (2007/08: £346.0 million). This segment, which
is a substantial net buyer of paper, benefited from our previous actions to
raise prices, the fall in the price of CCM and good cost control. Together
these factors enabled us to offset the effects of lower sales volumes.
Operating profit increased by 50% to £30.4 million. Excluding the effects
of foreign exchange translation, revenue was £40.5 million lower than
2007/08. Operating profit, excluding the effects of foreign exchange
was £3.3 million higher than in the prior year.
In our established markets, the French paper business, which focuses on
supplying speciality products, maintained its profits despite substantially
lower sales volume. Our French corrugated packaging business made
good progress, assisted by better margins and operational improvements
at the main facilities. Our particularly strong market position in heavy-duty
packaging for the industrial sector in France was severely affected by the
sharply lower level of activity in its customers’ industries. The effects of this
were partly offset by the benefits of our actions and investment aimed at
increasing our business in the FMCG sector. Based on its strong market
positions in the FMCG sector, our Italian business performed well in a
worsening trading environment.
In our developing markets, the Polish business achieved a further strong
advance, gaining share in a broadly static market. We are benefiting from
the investments we have made over a number of years and our focus on
developing sales of higher value-added products. Our small converting
businesses in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, aimed principally at the
automotive industry in central Europe, experienced especially tough trading
conditions. Results at our business in Turkey, which focuses on the brown
and white goods and automotive sectors were also depressed by the
international economic slow-down. We have extended our programme
aimed at lowering costs and improving performance and we are taking
an impairment charge against this business. Operating results at our
Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, which is reported under
associates, were affected by weaker sales volume and margin pressure.
Although the business remains profitable and cash generative, we have
fully impaired the value of our investment in it because of its exposure
to a large US dollar denominated loan.
In 2009/10, we expect margins to come under increased pressure while
sales volumes remain subdued. Our priorities are to maintain good levels
of profitability in our three principal markets, France, Italy and Poland. We
will continue to develop the Polish business and concentrate on supplying
the higher value-added product sectors in all our markets.
ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW
We have grown our business in Poland
by circa 125% over the last five years.
Our plant at Kutno is one of the most
advanced in Europe and achieves very
high efficiency levels. Recent investment
in Poland has been heavily focused on
further developing our capabilities to
supply higher value-added products
for the FMCG sector.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH
250m
DS Smith Polska produces over
250 million boxes a year.
STRENGTH TODAY
DS Smith Kaysersberg has invested to
increase its capabilities for supplying
boxes to the FMCG sector.
Retail-ready packaging is supplied
to major international food
manufacturers. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 19
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
PLASTIC PACKAGING
Results were lower in both of our
major sectors.
2008/09 2007/08
Revenue – £m 236.9 223.4
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 7.0 10.7
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 19.2 21.2
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth – % 6.0% 10.7%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 3.0% 4.8%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 8.1% 9.5%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 5.3% 8.4%
* before an exceptional charge of £4.0 million (2007/08: £1.9 million)
MARKET OVERVIEW
Returnable transit packaging (RTP) products are mostly used within the
retail, automotive, electronics and beverage sectors. Demand is heavily
influenced by industry sector activity levels. RTP is often a capital purchase
for our customers, being driven by particular projects, hence annual
demand can be uneven. The European market for RTP, which is estimated
to be approximately €1 billion, is fragmented into many product sub-
sectors and has a large number of suppliers. In western Europe, the
markets we serve are estimated to have declined in 2008 by 15% as
a result of the slow-down in industrial and retail activity. The previous
trend towards the use of multi-trip, reusable packaging on cost and
environmental grounds has reduced in recent years, although there remain
many market sectors that are well suited to returnable systems. This slow-
down in demand has been partly a result of the fluctuations in polymer
costs and partly a result of the general decline in economic activity.
The global market for liquid packaging and dispensing (LP&D) products is
estimated to be approximately £400 million. The principal uses of bag-in-
box packaging are for wine, agricultural produce (such as fruit juice and
dairy products) and food service applications such as carbonated soft-
drink concentrate (for the hotel and restaurant industries). The market for
dispensing products (principally taps), other than for bag-in-box systems,
is fragmented across a wide range of applications. DS Smith Plastics is a
major supplier to the wine and liquid detergent sector; the latter has grown
strongly in recent years in the USA and has more recently started to grow
in Europe.
The recent volatility of polymer prices has contributed additional
uncertainty into our markets over the last year. During the first half of
calendar year 2008, polymer prices rose substantially as a result of the
high oil price, reaching a peak in August 2008. They then fell sharply
during the autumn and early winter months before firming again during
the first half of 2009. This volatility contributed to the uncertainty of
demand during this period as it exacerbated the tendency of customers
to defer ordering products, particularly in the RTP sector.
2008/09 PERFORMANCE
DS Smith Plastics’ revenue increased by 6% to £236.9 million, including
the positive effect of foreign exchange translation. Results were lower in
both of our major sectors and consequently overall adjusted operating
profit fell by 34.6% to £7.0 million. The effects of foreign exchange
translation improved revenue and operating profit by £33.9 million
and £3.1 million respectively compared with 2007/08.
Revenue in RTP, which accounted for 43% of the segment revenue, was
6.0% lower due to weak and variable demand from almost all its main
customer sectors. Sales to the construction and automotive sectors fell
sharply and our beverage crate business was significantly affected by the
deferral by our customers of anticipated crate replacement programmes.
In LP&D, revenue, which accounted for 45% of the segment, grew by
16.2%. Our USA operations maintained their good performance, partly
due to the development of new market sectors for bag-in-box packaging.
Our European operations continued to be affected by competitive pressures,
particularly in the wine sector. The restructuring of our operations in
Germany was completed in April 2009 and further restructuring of
our tap and bag operations in the UK is being implemented.
We are seeking to mitigate the effects of the ongoing weak
demand, especially in RTP, through our restructuring actions and
productivity improvements.
Returnable transit packaging is
designed to meet the needs of
customers’ logistics systems.
Bag-in-box packaging is being used
for an expanding range of products,
including fruit juices. BUSINESS REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED
20 www.dssmith.uk.com
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
Profit was flat, assisted by a good
performance in continental Europe.
2008/09 2007/08
Revenue – £m 720.5 644.9
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 20.1 20.1
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 25.7 26.1
Key performance indicators:
Revenue growth – % 11.7% 13.3%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 2.8% 3.1%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 3.6% 4.0%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 15.2% 15.1%
* before an exceptional charge of £3.7 million (2007/08: £nil)
MARKET OVERVIEW
The office products markets of the UK, France and Germany, in which
Spicers currently has approximately 85% of its sales, are estimated to be
worth approximately £5 billion, €6 billion and €7 billion respectively, at
manufacturers’ selling prices. The demand for office products is principally
influenced by the level of economic activity. The value of the markets in
which Spicers operates fell in 2008, with the traditional stationery sector
declining significantly although the electronic office supplies (EOS) sector
continued to show modest growth
4
. The value of the market is being held
back by price deflation caused by intense competition between suppliers
and the trend for consumers to buy lower specification or own-branded
products. EOS, which is a growing sector of the market, accounts for
approximately 50% of the total office products market. It is especially
price-competitive on the high-volume EOS products.
The relative shares of the various supply channels to the end-user market
differ by country. Spicers principally supplies office products dealers and
resellers. In the countries in which Spicers operates, this channel accounts,
on average, for approximately 35% of the total office products market.
The share of the market held by dealers has been relatively stable in recent
years. Office products dealers primarily sell to small and medium-sized
organisations, generally offer a high standard of service to their customers
and source most of their products either from wholesalers or direct
from manufacturers.
2008/09 PERFORMANCE
Office Products Wholesaling – Spicers – showed an overall sales growth,
which was magnified by the translation benefits of the strong euro. Despite
the adverse impact of the economic environment on the demand for office
products, revenue increased by 11.7% to £720.5 million (2007/08:
£644.9 million). Adjusted operating profit was flat at £20.1 million, due
to a fall in profit in the UK and Ireland while profits in continental Europe
as a whole increased slightly, assisted by the strength of the euro. The
effects of foreign exchange translation improved revenue by £57.9 million
and operating profit by £3.1 million compared with 2007/08.
In the UK, which accounts for approximately half of our office products
wholesaling revenue, we grew sales. However, this growth masks a
significant decline in traditional office products, offset by a large growth
in lower margin EOS. Despite our actions to reduce the cost to sales ratio,
the fall-off in traditional product sales, combined with the effects of a highly
competitive market situation, put substantial pressure on profits. Action has
been taken to improve the sales mix and to raise efficiency levels further,
with the aim of reversing this downward profit trend.
In continental Europe, our well-established businesses in France and the
Benelux region performed solidly despite their revenue being affected by
the decline in the overall market; our Benelux operations were additionally
impacted by a change in government policy in Flanders regarding the
supply of stationery to younger school children. Spicers Germany
continued its development, reporting good revenue growth, assisted by
further improvement in its service levels. Our Italian operation once again
showed good overall growth, consolidating its position as a significant
supplier in this market and reporting its first full year of profit. Spicers
Spain produced a creditable result in light of the severity of the national
economic slow-down in this country, which affected its overall revenue
despite growing its EOS sales.
George Adams, who was appointed to the role of Chief Executive of
Spicers in June 2009, brings with him a wealth of relevant business
experience both in the UK and continental Europe as well as a good
understanding of the Spicers business.
We expect the current year to be testing, especially in the UK market.
Throughout 2009/10, our priorities at Spicers are to maintain our good
overall performance in continental Europe while re-establishing profit
improvement in the UK. We will focus on improving our overall sales
levels, primarily in traditional office products, and on tight cost control.
We believe that Spicers is well placed to take advantage of improved
economic conditions when they arrive, due to its strong market positions
and its thorough understanding of supply chain management.
Customers’ orders are picked and
despatched for same-day or for next-
day overnight delivery.
Spicers’ distribution centres process
orders for circa 700,000 line-items
per week.
4 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 21
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
SPICERS’ BUSINESS MODEL
ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW
Spicers continually develops new ways
to support its customers. It provides its
dealers with marketing material such as
promotional catalogues and brochures.
Its innovative e-commerce systems
enable ever faster and more efficient
communication between Spicers, its
customers and the end-users. Increasingly,
Spicers provides a complete fulfilment
service, delivering direct to end-users.
ADDING VALUE FOR OUR DEALERS
COMMUNICATION
• Product range –
catalogue/internet
• Marketing support
KEY
PRODUCT ORDERS
• Orders placed –
mainly via
e-commercesystems
PRODUCT DELIVERIES
DEALERS & RESELLERS
OFFICE END-USERS
22,000
Spicers supplies up to 22,000
office product lines to some
12,500 dealers across Europe.
STRENGTH TODAY
Supplies trade customers – dealers and resellers – with:
•Everything for the ofﬁce, except computers – up to 22,000 product lines
across Europe, branded and own-label
•Marketing support – catalogues/promotions
• Business development support
• E-commerce systems
• Fast service – same/next-day delivery
•Fulﬁlment service – orders delivered to dealers or direct to end-users
•Sell to end-users
•Some hold stock
•Some are stockless and use Spicers as their fulﬁlment provider
•Source products from Spicers; may also buy from manufacturers
•Ofﬁces of all sizes – from one person to large businesses – buy
their ofﬁce products from dealers
•Dealers also sell to other organisations such as schools and sometimes
sell directly to consumers
•End-users can buy from the dealer customers of Spicers not only
traditional stationery and electronic ofﬁce supplies but also ofﬁce
furniture, janitorial supplies and ofﬁce catering and vending provisions BUSINESS REVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW
22 www.dssmith.uk.com
Our ongoing focus on cash
management resulted in strong
cash generation.
OVERVIEW
The Group has achieved a robust financial performance in challenging
trading conditions. The cash flow performance in the year demonstrates
the Group’s ability to generate cash despite significant capital investment
and restructuring programmes. In August 2008, we successfully refinanced
a syndicated loan facility at market-competitive rates.
TRADING RESULTS
The Group’s trading results for the year to 30 April 2009 are summarised
in Table 1.
The major drivers of the 2008/09 results were: lower volumes across the
Packaging activity as a whole due to the weak economic environment;
decreases in CCM selling prices in the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
segment; and continuing strong competition combined with lower demand
in the UK business of the Office Products Wholesaling segment. The
improvement in margins in our continental European packaging operations
together with the effects of the depreciation of sterling against both the
euro and US dollar offset some of the decline.
Revenue for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 increased by 7.1%
over the prior year; it was 17.0% higher in the first half of the year and
2.0% lower in the second half. Excluding the effects of the acquisition, in
February 2008, of New Thames Mill within UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging, revenue was up 3.5%. If, in addition, the effect of movements in
foreign exchange rates is excluded, revenue was down 4.5% on 2007/08.
Adjusted Group operating profit (excluding exceptional items) in 2008/09
was £94.0 million (2007/08: £119.6 million). The decrease in adjusted
Group operating profit resulted from declines in UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging and Plastic Packaging of £32.0 million and £3.7 million
respectively, which were partially offset by an increase in Continental
European Corrugated Packaging of £10.1 million. Adjusted operating profit
in Office Products Wholesaling was flat. Group adjusted operating profit
in the first half of the year was £54.4 million (2007/08 H1: £60.4 million)
and in the second half was £39.6 million (2007/08 H2: £59.2 million).
The Group’s adjusted return on sales was 4.5% (2007/08: 6.1%).
The Group’s adjusted return on capital employed (which is defined as
the adjusted operating profit divided by the average capital employed)
decreased from 12.9% in 2007/08 to 9.3% in 2008/09, below the
Group’s estimated pre-tax cost of capital of 11.8%. The decline in the
Group’s return on capital employed reflected lower returns in 2008/09
across UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging, Plastic Packaging and Office
Products Wholesaling, which were partially offset by a better return in
Continental European Corrugated Packaging.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The Group recorded net exceptional charges before tax of £55.7 million
during the year (2007/08: £1.9 million). A total of £50.6 million was
recorded against operating profits which included £18.1 million in respect
of the impairment of the carrying value of the Group’s Ukrainian associate
and £5.0 million in respect of our Turkish business, as well as £0.5 million
against an investment in Italy. The balance of £27.0 million related to the
restructuring costs and provisions as part of the Group’s previously announced
action programme. Restructuring costs of £18.2 million were incurred in
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging, £1.6 million in Continental European
Corrugated Packaging, £3.5 million in Plastic Packaging and £3.7 million
in Office Products Wholesaling. The restructuring costs comprise redundancy
and other cash costs of £25.1 million and a balance of £1.9 million of
non-cash items, principally impairments of tangible fixed assets. The cash
return on this expenditure is expected to be £26.0 million in 2009/10
(2008/09: £nil) and this will help to underpin the Group’s performance
in the current year. Operating profit after exceptional items was
£43.4 million (2007/08: £117.7 million).
TABLE 1 – TRADING RESULTS SUMMARY
First half Second half Full-year
2008/09 2007/08 2008/09 2007/08 2008/09 2007/08
Revenue – £m 1,102.8 942.7 1,003.8 1,024.8 2,106.6 1,967.5
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 54.4 60.4 39.6 59.2 94.0 119.6
Adjusted return on sales – %* 4.9% 6.4% 3.9% 5.8% 4.5% 6.1%
Adjusted return on average capital
employed – %* 10.8% 13.6% 7.7% 12.3% 9.3% 12.9%
* before exceptional items DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 23
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
INTEREST, TAX AND EARNINGS PER SHARE
Net interest expense increased from £20.8 million in 2007/08 to
£23.6 million in 2008/09, mainly reflecting higher interest rates following
the refinancing completed in August and increased average net debt.
Employment benefit net finance income, which is a non-cash item, was
£1.5 million (2007/08: £8.8 million), reflecting a higher opening deficit
on the defined benefit schemes. For 2009/10, given the higher discount
rates used, higher opening deficit and reduced return on assets, it is
anticipated that there will be an increase in the employment benefit
finance charge to circa £11 million.
The Group’s adjusted share of the non-exceptional after-tax profits of
Rubezhansk, the Group’s associate paper and packaging company in
Ukraine was £0.6 million, down from £3.4 million in 2007/08. The
Group has reported an exceptional loss of £5.1 million as the Group’s
share of the after-tax net loss at Rubezhansk incurred in the second half
of 2008/09, principally as a result of foreign exchange losses incurred
on Rubezhansk’s US$87 million loan, following the significant decline in
the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US dollar. Exchange rate movements
have resulted in Rubezhansk breaching its banking covenants. Consequently,
due to the uncertainty of the financial position of Rubezhansk, the Group
has fully impaired the carrying value of its investment in Rubezhansk. This
impairment of £18.1 million has been charged to operating profit as an
exceptional charge. The net cash cost of this investment has been less than
£5 million. Having reduced the carrying value of the investment to zero
the Group has no further exposure to potential future losses at Rubezhansk.
There is no recourse to the Group for the loan held by Rubezhansk.
Adjusted profit before tax was £72.5 million (2007/08: £111.0 million).
Profit before tax after exceptional items was £16.8 million (2007/08:
£109.1 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate, excluding exceptional items and associates,
at 31.4%, was higher than last year’s rate of 29.4% as a result of a shift
in the mix of profits towards the higher tax rate jurisdictions in continental
Europe. The tax charge on exceptional items of £5.4 million comprises an
exceptional charge of £13.3 million in respect of UK taxation following the
announcement of the cessation of industrial building allowances, partially
offset by tax allowances of £7.9 million for restructuring costs.
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 12.6 pence (2007/08: 19.9 pence).
Basic losses per share were 3.0 pence (2007/08: earnings 19.6 pence).
DIVIDEND
The proposed final dividend is 1.8 pence (2007/08: 6.2 pence), giving a
total dividend for the year of 4.4 pence (2007/08: 8.8 pence). Dividend
cover before exceptional items was 2.9 times in 2008/09 (2007/08:
2.3 times). After exceptional items the dividend was not covered
(2007/08: cover 2.2 times).
CASH FLOW
The Group generated free cash flow of £59.9 million (2007/08:
£84.8 million). Adjusted EBITDA fell by £17.7 million to £163.9 million,
however, a strong focus on working capital resulted in a cash inflow of
£30.8 million (2007/08: £13.2 million). Cash generated from operations
(before exceptional items) was £2.0 million below the prior year at
£183.6 million.
Net capital expenditure payments after disposals were £79.7 million
(2007/08: £57.2 million), the most significant expenditure being the
investment to convert the paper machine at New Thames Mill. The interest
paid increased in line with the income statement charge after excluding last
year’s non-cash charge relating to an increase in the fair value of put options
held by minority, non-continuing shareholders in a subsidiary of the Group.
TABLE 2 – CASH FLOW
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Operating proﬁt before
exceptional items 94.0 119.6
Depreciation and amortisation 69.9 62.0
Adjusted EBITDA 163.9 181.6
Working capital movement 30.8 13.2
Other (11.1) (9.2)
Cash generated from operations
1
183.6 185.6
Capital expenditure payments (87.4) (66.5)
Sales of assets 7.7 9.3
Tax paid (21.0) (27.8)
Net interest paid (23.0) (16.8)
Dividends – 1.0
Free cash ﬂow 59.9 84.8
Exceptional cash costs (17.2) (5.8)
Dividends (34.4) (33.7)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (1.9) –
Net acquisitions (1.2) (87.2)
Net cash ﬂow 5.2 (41.9)
Shares issued – 0.2
Purchase of own shares (0.2) (2.0)
Net debt acquired (0.2) (1.3)
Non-cash movements (44.5) (25.6)
Net debt movement (39.7) (70.6)
1 before exceptional cash items
* before exceptional items BUSINESS REVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
24 www.dssmith.uk.com
Tax payments were £21.0 million (2007/08: £27.8 million) and were
reduced by the lower adjusted trading profit described above. Cash dividend
cover, defined as free cash flow divided by dividends paid/declared for
the year, was 1.7 times, down from 2.5 times in 2007/08.
The cash outflow in respect of exceptional restructuring costs was
£17.2 million (including cash outflows related to exceptional charges
made in 2007/08), compared with a cash outflow from restructuring
costs of £5.8 million in 2007/08.
The net cash outflow on acquisitions and disposals was £1.2 million
(2007/08: £87.2 million) principally accounted for by the acquisition
of a small recycling business in north west England.
In respect of pension payments, the agreed annual contributions into the
UK Group Pension Scheme were £15.6 million in 2008/09 (2007/08:
£14.6 million).
Overall, the Group generated cash of £5.2 million after funding additional
capital expenditure and restructuring costs.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Shareholders’ funds totalled £458.0 million at 30 April 2009, down from
£601.7 million at 30 April 2008, principally due to the increase in the net
liability to the Group Pension Scheme and the impairment of the carrying
value of the Group’s associate in Ukraine. Net assets per share were
116.7 pence (30 April 2008: 153.9 pence). The loss attributable to the
shareholders of DS Smith Plc was £11.8 million and dividends of
£34.4 million were paid during the year. In addition, after-tax actuarial
losses of £88.5 million on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes
were debited to reserves through the Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense. Other items recognised directly in equity, relate to currency
translation of £0.7 million and movements in cash flow hedges of
£10.3 million.
The Group has committed facilities to 2012 of £535 million. The closing
net debt was £291.5 million, £39.7 million higher than at the start of the
year, reflecting the net cash inflow during the year of £5.2 million and
non-cash movements, principally exchange differences and related fair-
value movements, of £44.5 million.
Gearing, defined as net debt as a percentage of net assets, was 63.9%
(30 April 2008: 41.8%); the movement reflected the increase in borrowing
from the net cash outflow for the year which was proportionally greater
than the increase in shareholders’ funds. Adjusted Interest Cover (as
defined in the loan agreements) was 4.5 times, compared with 7.6 times
last year, the lower cover reflected the lower adjusted operating profit
combined with the increased interest charge. The ratio of net debt to
EBITDA (before exceptional items) was 1.8 times (2007/08: 1.4 times).
The Group’s banking covenants for the syndicated loan and the private
placements specify an Adjusted Interest Cover not less than 3.0 times, a
maximum ratio of net debt to EBITDA of 3.25 times and net assets to be in
excess of £360 million. The covenant calculations exclude from the income
statement exceptional items and the net interest income/charge arising
from the defined benefit pension schemes. The calculation of net assets
excludes the net asset or liability arising from the defined benefit pension
schemes. As at 30 April 2009, the most important covenant is the
Adjusted Interest Cover and this had an Adjusted Profit headroom
of £34.6 million (2007/08: £78.9 million).
ENERGY COSTS
The high level of energy costs continued to be a significant factor for the
Group in 2008/09. The Group’s total costs for gas, electricity and diesel
fuel increased from circa £91 million in 2007/08 to circa £114 million in
2008/09. After adjusting for the effect of the acquisition of New Thames
Mill in February 2008 this represents an underlying increase of circa
£5 million. The Group continued with its strategy of hedging the energy
costs with suppliers and financial institutions, the purpose of which is to
reduce the volatility of energy costs and provide the Group with a
degree of certainty over energy costs.
Approximately 40% of the Group’s energy costs, principally related to our
largest energy-consuming facilities, are incurred under supply contracts in
which our energy costs tend to lag the trends in market prices.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of cash: operating
cash flow, borrowing, shareholders’ equity and disposals of peripheral
businesses, where appropriate. The Group’s objective is to achieve a capital
structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing
flexibility in immediate and medium-term funding so as to accommodate
material investments or acquisitions. The Group also aims to maintain
a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having
a range of maturities and borrowing from a variety of sources.
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are
available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage financial
risks. The Group’s treasury strategy is controlled through the Treasury
Committee, which meets regularly and includes the Group Chief Executive,
the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Group
Treasurer. The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with
policies and procedures approved by the Board and controlled by the
Group Treasurer. The function arranges funding for the Group, provides
a service to operations and implements strategies for interest rate, foreign
exchange and energy exposure management. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 25
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
The Group’s main borrowing facilities comprise: private placements,
of US$105.0 million due in 2012 and £25.0 million also due 2012; a
private placement of US$105 million due 2014 and US$95 million due
2016. Additionally, the Group has a syndicated revolving credit facility
of £287.5 million, which expires in 2013 and a bilateral facility of
£50.0 million expiring in 2010. At 30 April 2009, the Group’s committed
borrowing facilities were £625.9 million. The total gross borrowing drawn
under all these facilities at the year-end were £346.1 million. At 30 April 2009,
the Group’s borrowing facilities had a weighted-average maturity of four
years and one month.
The major treasury risks to which the Group is exposed relate to movements
in interest and foreign exchange rates and market prices for energy. The
overall objective of the Treasury function is to control these exposures whilst
striking an appropriate balance between mitigating risks and controlling costs.
Financial instruments, including derivatives, may be used in implementing
hedging strategies but the speculative use of financial instruments, including
derivatives, is not permitted.
The Group manages the risks associated with its purchases of energy in
the UK through its Energy Procurement Group, which operates under the
oversight of the Treasury Committee. UK purchases of energy represent
the significant majority of the Group’s overall energy costs.
The Treasury Committee regularly reviews the Group’s exposure to interest
rates and considers whether to borrow on fixed or floating terms. The
Group has a current policy of mainly borrowing at floating rates, which
the Treasury Committee believes provides better value over the medium
term. Fixed-rate borrowing, taking into account the effect of related swaps,
comprised 35% of total borrowing at 30 April 2009 (30 April 2008: 16%).
The Group has a net investment in major overseas subsidiary companies’
foreign currency assets and liabilities, in particular those whose functional
currency is the euro or the United States dollar. The Group’s policy is to
hedge a large part of the resulting exposure to movements in foreign
currency rates, by means of debt in the same currency, to a level determined
by the Treasury Committee. The overseas net assets hedged through euro
borrowing increased from 85% at 30 April 2008 to 89% at 30 April 2009
as a proportion of the Group’s euro net investment.
The Group’s foreign currency debt may be put in place either in the
currency itself or through the use of cross-currency swaps on differently
denominated borrowing. The Group applies hedge accounting under
IAS 39 to its hedges of its net investment of foreign currency subsidiaries
and records exchange differences arising on the net investments and the
related foreign currency borrowing directly in equity. In addition, the
Group’s operations make product sales and purchases of raw materials
in foreign currencies; here, cash flow hedges are taken out to reduce
the risk associated with these transactions.
IMPAIRMENT
When applying IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’, the Group compares the
carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets with the higher of
their net realisable value and their value-in-use to determine whether an
impairment exists. The value-in-use is calculated by discounting the future
cash flows expected to be generated by the assets or group of assets being
tested for impairment. At the year-end, a series of tests were undertaken to
determine whether there had been any impairment to the balance sheet
carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets. The key assumptions
behind the calculations can be found in note 10 to the financial statements.
In summary, the test indicated that, despite the weak markets currently being
experienced, the value of discounted future cash flow meant it remained
appropriate not to write off any of the goodwill previously acquired by the
Group. The tests for impairments did indicate that due to the uncertain state
of the corrugated box market in Turkey it was appropriate to make an
impairment of £5.0 million against the plant and equipment of Çopikas,
the Group’s subsidiary in Turkey.
Approximately 73% of the carrying value of the Group’s goodwill is allocated
to UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging.
Whilst the Board considers that its assumptions are realistic, it is possible
impairment would be identified if any of the key assumptions were changed
significantly. The net book value of goodwill and other intangibles at
30 April 2009 were £222.0 million (30 April 2008: £215.2 million).
As noted above, the Board has reviewed the carrying value of the Group’s
Ukrainian associate, Rubezhansk, and has determined that due to the
financial position of Rubezhansk it is prudent to impair fully the carrying
value of this investment.
Note 10 to the financial statements sets out additional information regarding
the Group’s annual impairment exercise including the details of the carrying
value headroom for the key cash-generating units that hold goodwill.
PENSIONS
IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, requires the Group to make assumptions
including, but not limited to, future asset returns, rates of inflation, discount
rates and current and future life expectancies. The use of different assumptions
could have a material effect on the accounting values of the relevant assets
and liabilities, which in turn could result in a change to the cost of such
liabilities as recognised in the income statement over time. The assumptions
involved are subject to periodic review.
The Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme in the UK and
has some small, overseas arrangements. The aggregate gross assets of the
schemes at 30 April 2009 were £555.3 million and the gross liabilities at BUSINESS REVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
26 www.dssmith.uk.com
30 April 2009, calculated under IAS 19, were £746.6 million, resulting
in the recognition of a gross balance sheet deficit of £191.3 million
(30 April 2008: £75.9 million), a net deficit of £138.0 million (30 April
2008: £54.5 million) after the establishment of a deferred tax asset of
£53.3 million (30 April 2008: £21.4 million). The increase in the gross
balance sheet deficit of £115.4 million was principally due to a reduction
in asset values of £166.5 million resulting from the decline in global equity
prices during the year.
In order to control the future costs and financial obligations of these
schemes, the Group’s UK defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new
members. The current service cost in 2008/09, amounted to £9.7 million
compared with £8.3 million in 2007/08. The Group’s agreed annual
cash contributions to the main UK scheme were £15.6 million (2007/08:
£14.6 million). A triennial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at
30 April 2007.
Note 24 to the financial statements sets out additional information
regarding the Group’s pension and other post-retirement benefits.
STEVE DRYDEN
Group Finance Director BUSINESS REVIEW
RISK MANAGEMENT
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 27
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
The Group has a rigorous procedure
for understanding and managing its
significant risks.
The Group faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have
a material effect on its performance. The Group’s exposure to individual
risks is limited and diversified by the fact that it has several distinct types
of activity, with 30 business sectors operating from over 100 sites in 18
different countries, and it sells to a broad range of customers. Details of
the limited dependence of each of our segments on any one customer are
provided in the Description of the Group on pages 12 and 13. The main
commercial and other risks that are specific to a business segment are
described within the narrative on that segment. The principal Group-wide
key risks and uncertainties, as perceived in the light of present knowledge,
and the way they are managed, are described below. There are further
references to the risks faced by the Group in the Financial Review on pages
22 to 26, in the Corporate Governance section on pages 38 to 40 and in
the Notes to the Accounts on pages 58 to 100. The Group seeks to mitigate
its insurable risks through an insurance programme that covers property
and liability risks where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
CHANGES IN THE DEMAND FOR, OR PRICING OF, THE
GROUP’S PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AS A RESULT OF GENERAL
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR MARKET-SPECIFIC FACTORS
The profitability of the Group’s businesses is sensitive to the volume and
mix of sales and to product pricing. Demand across the Group’s markets
has weakened and become less predictable as a result of the global
economic downturn. This has, in turn, contributed to a fall in prices in some
of the Group’s markets. In the present circumstances, management has
reduced visibility for forecasting the Group’s levels of activity and margins.
Trading conditions may prove to be very different from those that are currently
expected. In these circumstances the Group’s businesses are monitoring
sales and pricing trends in their markets especially closely. The businesses
all have programmes in place aimed at maximising sales and managing
margins in the context of the evolving situation in their specific markets.
For our paper-based packaging products, a 5% reduction in the current
level of overall demand across Europe could have the potential to reduce
future operating profits by approximately £14 million. However, the
actual impact would depend upon the specific impact of the reduction on
individual products and markets and upon the outcome of the actions that
management would take to mitigate the effects of such a change in demand.
With specific regard to our UK Paper business, based on an annual
production of approximately 1 million tonnes, if the selling price of paper
moved by £10 per tonne, the Group’s operating profit would be impacted
by circa £10 million, all other factors being equal. The actual impact
would initially be partially mitigated by a corresponding reduction in
the paper costs within our corrugated packaging operations.
In respect of our Office Products Wholesaling business, a 1% reduction
in the overall margin achieved for office products would reduce Group
operating profits by circa £7 million.
Further information on the changes and trends in demand and pricing
relevant to our business segments is provided within the market
commentaries in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 21.
VOLATILITY OF PRICING AND AVAILABILITY OF GLOBALLY
TRADED RAW MATERIALS
In 2008/09, the Group purchased approximately £93 million of waste
paper and approximately £110 million of polymers and films as the principal
raw materials in its Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses, respectively.
These products are globally traded and subject to variations in supply and
demand which result in volatility in their pricing. The Group endeavours
to recover any raw material cost increases through good material usage
programmes and through price rises. Approximately one-third of the Group’s
corrugated and plastic packaging customer contracts include arrangements to
link selling prices to an index of raw material prices. The achievement of
price increases for the majority of our Packaging business is substantially
determined by the state of supply and demand in the relevant market at any
time. Due to the variety of contractual arrangements with customers, margins
may be squeezed for a period of time until price increases are achieved to
recover input cost increases. In the present trading environment it is likely to
prove more difficult to recover input cost increases through price rises.
The Group’s Severnside Recycling business collects and trades waste
paper to ensure a continuous cost-competitive supply to the Group’s paper
mills. It achieves this through long-term contracts with major suppliers of
waste paper and the collection of waste from smaller suppliers through
its network of collection depots. Based on the Group’s purchases of waste
paper of approximately £93 million, a £10 per tonne increase in waste
paper prices would reduce Group operating profits by £8 million. However,
as noted above, the actual impact on future profitability would depend
upon the extent to which finished goods prices are linked to input prices.
Of the Group’s total polymer and film purchases, polycarbonate,
polypropylene and high density polyethylene are the principal polymers
used, with the remainder comprising a large number of different polymers
and films. The Group has developed a good level of expertise in polymer
purchasing and uses a number of suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at
competitive prices.
VOLATILE AND INCREASING ENERGY PRICES
The Group’s exposure to energy costs is described on page 24 and is
being managed in a number of ways. The Group is looking to maximise
in-house energy generation from its combined heat and power (CHP)
plants in the UK and France, thereby taking advantage of the greater
efficiency of the CHP process. It is also investigating the potential for the
use of renewable or low-carbon energy sources, including refuse-derived
fuel. The Group continues to undertake a wide range of energy-saving
projects aimed at increasing its energy efficiency and reducing its energy
usage. In 2008/09, the Group reduced its energy usage by 10% compared
with 2007/08, principally due to lower activity levels across the Group.
The regulatory developments in the energy market are monitored and the
Group collaborates, when appropriate, with other higher energy users in
the paper and other industry sectors to influence government on energy
policy and the operation of energy markets. The Group maintains a
centralised energy-purchasing approach in the UK and France, which
enables it to obtain economies of scale in buying and to apply specialist
expertise. Given the sensitivity of the Group’s financial results to energy
prices, the impact of energy costs are managed through the use of long-
term supply contracts (which reduce the volatility of price movements)
and the application of hedging techniques. The Group transacts hedging
instruments with a number of counterparties and monitors its overall
reliance and exposure against each counterparty. BUSINESS REVIEW
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
28 www.dssmith.uk.com
A US$10 per barrel increase in global oil prices would reduce Group
operating profits by circa £3 million and a 10 pence per therm increase in
UK gas prices would reduce Group operating profits by circa £3 million.
MOVEMENTS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES AND
INTEREST RATES
These risks and the way in which they are managed through the Group’s
Treasury Committee and its subsidiary committees or groups are described
on pages 24 and 25.
In terms of the effects of currency translation, the principal conversion rates
which affect the Group’s reported financial performance are sterling to the
euro and sterling to the US dollar. An increase in sterling’s value against
the euro by 10 cents would decrease operating profits by around £3 million,
principally due to the impact on the translation of profits in the Group’s
euro denominated operations. This impact would be partially offset at a
profit before tax level by a reduction in interest costs of circa £1 million
due to translation of interest costs on the Group’s euro debt. Similarly,
a 10 cents increase in the value of sterling against the US dollar would
reduce reported operating profits by around £0.3 million and reduce
interest costs by circa £0.1 million.
An overall one percentage increase in interest rates across the debt held
by the Group would increase interest costs by £1.8 million. However, as
noted on page 25, we currently have 35% of our debt placed at fixed
interest rates.
THE FUNDING POSITION OF THE GROUP’S UK DEFINED
BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME
The funding of the Group’s UK defined benefit scheme is sensitive to a
number of key factors: the value of the assets, of which 63% is invested
in equities and 37% in bonds, gilts and cash; the discount rate, based
on the yield on high quality corporate bonds, which is used to calculate
the scheme’s liabilities; and the expected mortality rate of the scheme’s
members. The funding position of the scheme has deteriorated during
2008/09 as described on page 26. The Group faces the risk that this
funding position may deteriorate further over time. The Group and the
scheme’s trustee have sought to mitigate this risk through the scheme’s
investment strategy and through having increased the contributions
made to the scheme by both the members and the Group. The regulatory
environment for pension schemes and their trustees has changed in recent
years, in particular with the Pensions Act 2004: the presence of a deficit in
a scheme may now oblige the trustee or possibly the Pensions Regulator to
seek some further funding of the scheme in the event of a significant corporate
action or perceived decline in the Group’s financial covenant. The sensitivity
of the funding position to the key assumptions is detailed in note 24.
THE CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF BORROWING FACILITIES,
INCLUDING COMPLIANCE WITH BORROWING COVENANTS
The Group’s borrowing facilities and their management through the
Treasury Committee are described on pages 24 and 25. The Group has
committed facilities of £625.9 million (2007/08: £506.0 million) and, as
at 30 April 2009, £346.1 million was drawn against these facilities. The
facilities are provided by a range of banks that typically have a credit
rating of BBB+ or greater. The Group is required as a condition of its
borrowing facilities to remain within certain covenants. These are detailed
in the Financial Review on pages 24 and 25. In the event that a breach of
covenant occurs, borrowing under the facility becomes repayable on demand.
The Group has cash deposit, borrowing and transactional relationships with
a range of institutions. The counterparty risk is carefully monitored to ensure
that the risk of an individual counterparty failure would not curtail the Group’s
ability to manage foreign exchange, energy or impinge significantly on its
borrowing facilities. Cash deposits are held with institutions of credit rating
AA or greater.
CUSTOMER CREDIT RISK
Although the Group has a broad base of customers, the financial failure of
one or more of the Group’s key customers may have a material impact on
the results in a particular segment and result in a significant loss of future
business. Given the current environment we are closely monitoring credit
risk across our customer base. The potential effect of the failure of any
particular Group customer is limited as no single customer represents
more than 2% of the Group’s revenue.
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE GROUP’S ACTION PROGRAMME
FOCUSED ON COST REDUCTION AND CASH GENERATION
In the light of the challenging trading conditions, the Group has implemented
an action programme which is described in more detail in the Chief
Executive’s Review on pages 7 to 9. If trading conditions were to worsen
significantly from the currently expected level, this programme may prove
not to be sufficient and it may be necessary to reduce the Group’s cost base
further, thus incurring additional restructuring costs. In these circumstances
the Group’s results could be adversely affected.
SERIOUS BREACHES OF THE LAW OR OTHER REGULATIONS
The Group’s Key Corporate Values, which are described in more detail
in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 30 and are available in
full at www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/Policies.asp on the Group’s website,
require all employees to comply with all relevant laws and regulations in
the countries in which they operate. The Group recognises the risk that
substantial fines, or other penalties, may be imposed for non-compliance
with laws and regulations relating to competition, environmental, health
and safety or other matters, and has control mechanisms, ongoing
programmes and systems, and special initiatives in place for monitoring
compliance. It also carries out training programmes for employees and has
systems in place to share expertise and best practice on these matters. The
Group has a Workplace Malpractice Policy, and a process for employees
to report any suspected wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place across
its international operations where such reporting is permitted by law.
INCREASING COSTS IN THE MEDIUM TERM RELATED TO
CLIMATE CHANGE AND CARBON DIOXIDE (CO
2
) EMISSIONS
As a result of its substantial energy usage, the Group is likely, in the
medium term, to be increasingly subject to regulation and taxation of its
CO
2
emissions. The details of this and the actions being taken to reduce
the Group’s future energy usage and CO
2
emissions are described in the
Corporate Responsibility Review on page 35 and in the statement of the
Group’s strategy for managing its energy costs on page 24. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 29
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
PRODUCT LIABILITY
The Group’s packaging products, many of which are supplied into the
food and beverage industries, may give rise to potentially substantial
product liability claims in the event of a failure of the packaging to
perform its function when in use or from contamination of the product
by its packaging. The potential for such claims is reduced by the fact that
the majority of the Group’s packaging is used as secondary, or transit,
packaging and does not come into direct contact with the products it
ultimately protects. The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the
safety and adequate performance levels of its packaging through design,
manufacturing control processes, technical testing and other means while
having appropriate product liability insurances in place. It also looks to
minimise its product liability risk through its relevant terms and conditions
of trading.
OTHER SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Group’s management of other social and environmental risks is
described in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 30 to 35. BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
30 www.dssmith.uk.com
AIMS 2008/09 ACTIONS AND PROGRESS
HEALTH AND SAFETY
ENVIRONMENT
EMPLOYEES
COMMUNITY
INVOLVEMENT
• Ensure the safety of our staff
and others affected by our
operations – our top priority
• Reduce the number of
accidents
• Group-wide ‘think safe... be safe!’ campaign continued, focused
on particular safety topics
• Local initiatives targeted at key safety issues for each business
• Lost time accidents down 14%
• Accident frequency rate down 16%
• Accident severity rate down 4%
• Businesses use audits and benchmarking processes to measure
performance and highlight areas for improvement
• Extensive training programmes undertaken aimed at analysing
and reducing risks and changing attitudes and behaviour
• Reduce the impact of our
operations on the environment
• Contribute to optimising
resource usage and waste
throughout our supply chains
• Developed further our services to provide the optimum packaging
solutions for the end-use
• Expanded further our major recycling capabilities
• Invested to produce high-quality lightweight paper
• Reduced environmental impact, partly due to lower activity
and partly due to improved performance
• Energy usage down 10%
•CO
2
emissions down 8%
• Water usage down 8%
• Total waste generated down 6%
• Attract, retain and motivate
good people
• Enable our employees to
fulfil their potential
• Training and initiatives carried out to reinforce implementation
of employee-related Key Corporate Values
• Increased level of communication to ensure awareness of
business plans and objectives
• Employee surveys in parts of the Group
• Training and development programmes to meet our businesses’
and employees’ specific needs
• Develop and maintain
good relations with our
local communities
• Businesses work closely with local schools and colleges
• Involvement in a range of community activities
• Participate in liaison groups and hold open days
• Support good causes in local communities
DS Smith is committed to maintaining high standards in the way we
conduct our business. The safety of our employees is our principal concern.
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 31
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
OUR PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH TO
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
DS Smith is committed to providing good sustainable returns for its investors
while maintaining high standards in the way we conduct our business. The
safety of our 11,000 employees, working at over 100 locations worldwide,
is our principal concern. We also pay close attention to the fulfilment of
our responsibilities towards the environment and to how we interact with
our employees and local communities. This review presents information on
these high priority aspects of corporate responsibility (CR) for the Group.
The Board considers risks to the Group’s short- and long-term value arising
from CR matters as part of its regular review of the key risks to the Group’s
operations. It ensures that the Group has in place effective policies and
systems for managing any significant CR risks and it receives regular
reports on performance. The Group Chief Executive is the Director
responsible for CR matters and he reports to the Board on these. It is the
responsibility of the Divisional Chief Executives and General Managers
of the individual businesses to communicate and to apply the policies, to
ensure compliance and to review procedures, taking account of local
legislation and potential risks. Divisional Chief Executives are required
annually to attest that the companies for which they are responsible have
complied with relevant Group and divisional policies.
The Group’s Key Corporate Values define the way in which we require our
people and businesses to operate. In summary, all employees are expected
at all times to act ethically and with integrity, to treat their colleagues fairly,
equitably and with respect, to work safely and to protect the environment.
Our Key Corporate Values statement is reinforced by more detailed
policies on health and safety, the environment and other relevant
topics; these documents may be viewed on the Group’s website at:
www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/Policies.asp. The Group has a Workplace
Malpractice Policy, under which employees may report in confidence any
perceived wrongdoing within the Group on matters relating to safety, the
environment, unethical business conduct or breaches of Group policies,
the law or other regulations. This policy is reinforced by a confidential
Employee Concern Helpline and e-mail facility which we aim to make
available to our employees worldwide as local legal and regulatory
issues are resolved; to date it has been extended to over 70% of our
employees, located in nine countries. Any concerns reported are
appropriately investigated.
DS Smith continues to be selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good
UK Index of companies deemed to meet globally recognised corporate
responsibility standards. DS Smith is also a constituent of the Kempen/
SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index for smaller companies deemed to have
high social responsibility standards and practice.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
DS Smith is committed to ensuring that throughout the Group the safety of
our staff and others affected by our operations receives the highest priority.
Accordingly, safety at work is the first fixed agenda item at all main Board,
executive committee and divisional review meetings. Providing a safe
workplace and ensuring safe working practices are not only legal and
ethical responsibilities for the Group but are also essential elements for
achieving our aims of attracting and retaining a high-quality and well
motivated workforce and in carrying out our operations productively and
cost-effectively. Responsibility for the safety of our people is regarded as a
key aspect of the role of management at all levels. Managers are provided
with training to assist them in fulfilling this responsibility.
We give particular attention to communicating with our people about the
importance of safety at work and involving them closely in initiatives aimed
at finding ways to improve safety on our sites. Our campaign, launched in
autumn 2006 under the slogan ‘think safe… be safe!’, continues to be a key
feature of our drive to raise further employees’ awareness of their individual
responsibilities for preventing accidents. Supplementary Group-wide
initiatives, focusing on particular safety topics, have been implemented to
reinforce the central theme. Our businesses use the core campaign material
as a basis for introducing programmes which concentrate on the safety issues
which are most relevant to each business. Many of our businesses have
recently focused particular attention on reducing accidents caused by
manual handling activities and by slips and trips. In the last year, Severnside
Recycling and St Regis, which both operate sizeable transport fleets,
have taken various initiatives aimed at reducing road traffic accidents.
Information on safety performance, including statistics related to our
performance indicators, is reported to the Board quarterly. Our divisions set
improvement targets against the indicators, which reflect the nature of their
business and their previous performance. In 2008/09, our continuing emphasis
on safety was reflected in a 14% reduction in the number of accidents that
resulted in one shift or more of working time being lost and a 16% reduction in
the accident frequency rate, which measures lost time accidents in proportion
to the number of hours worked. There was a 4% improvement in the accident
severity rate, which measures the hours lost as a result of all accidents as a
percentage of the total hours worked. We continue to focus on addressing the
underlying reasons for the lower level of improvement in the latter indicator,
which particularly reflects the number of relatively minor accidents after which
employees take a longer time to return to work.
Our businesses benchmark their performance on safety against other Group
businesses and through the use of external data. This process enables them
to identify areas for increased attention. Site health and safety audits by
internal specialists and external consultants are also used to measure
LOST TIME ACCIDENTS
Number of accidents resulting in lost time
of one shift or more
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE
Number of lost time accidents permillion
hours worked
ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE
Working hours lost as a result of accidents
as a percentage of hours worked
SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
32 www.dssmith.uk.com
performance and highlight areas for improvement. Investigations are carried
out of all accidents and situations that might have resulted in accidents to
ensure that we learn from these incidents and prevent recurrence. Our
businesses undertake extensive programmes of training on safety matters.
In addition to focusing on the most significant specific risks for their
operations, and the techniques of risk assessment and root cause
analysis, these programmes also aim more broadly to change
unsafe attitudes and behaviour.
ENVIRONMENT
Protecting the environment is an important feature of DS Smith’s business.
We continually seek to reduce the impact of our own operations on the
environment and to contribute to reducing energy usage, greenhouse
gas emissions and waste throughout our supply chains. The Group’s
leading UK position in recycling of paper and packaging makes a major
contribution to conserving resources and reducing landfill waste. Our
Packaging products are made from recycled raw materials wherever it is
practicable and our Packaging businesses use their expertise in packaging
design to assist customers and retailers in optimising the use of resources
and reducing waste in their supply chains. In corrugated packaging, which
is fully recyclable, we are at the forefront of the trend to use lightweight
paper to lower the weight of packaging used. Spicers offers its customers
an increasingly large selection of products which are made from recycled
materials, are recyclable or have other environmentally beneficial features.
We continue to carry out work to evaluate not only the carbon footprint
of our own packaging products but to understand better the role of our
packaging in the total life cycle of the product for which it is used.
Recycling
The Group’s operations make a major contribution to the corrugated
packaging recycling process. In the UK, Severnside Recycling is the
largest collector of waste paper and an increasingly significant collector
of plastic and other materials for recycling. It sources waste paper and
other recoverable materials from major supermarkets, other retailers and
industrial operations and is providing the waste collection services for
Tesco plc’s front-of-store automated recycling centres which are being
located at an increasing number of its stores. Severnside’s growth into
the integrated recycling and waste management market has been further
underlined by a contract with Marks & Spencer plc, in line with its Plan A
principles, to deliver waste and recycling services across their retail and
distribution network.
All of the paper produced by the Group is made from recycled waste paper.
St Regis is the UK’s leading recycler of packaging waste and largest
producer of recycled paper, while DS Smith Kaysersberg is a significant
recycler of waste paper in France; in total the Group recycled 1.4 million
tonnes of paper in 2008/09. 77% of the paper used by the Group’s
corrugated packaging operations in 2008/09 was 100% recycled paper.
The remainder was made from virgin wood pulp, sourced from producers
who obtain their wood pulp from sustainable forestry sources, and is
required by certain customers for its particular strength and appearance
characteristics.
A key benefit of paper recycling is that there are carbon savings from
diverting waste paper from landfill. A recent study by the UK’s Waste &
Resources Action Programme (WRAP) concluded that recycling one tonne
of paper rather than sending it to landfill avoids the equivalent of 1.4
tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.
The Group’s paper collection and recycling operations play an important
role in meeting the EU and UK government objectives for the recycling of
packaging waste, as prescribed in the EU Packaging and Packaging
Waste Directive and the UK Packaging Waste Regulations. Under the
Directive, the UK is required to recycle at least 60% of all paper packaging;
it is well ahead of this target, with 80% of paper packaging being recycled
in 2008, and DS Smith is the largest contributor to this reprocessing.
Packaging and the environment
The conservation of resources and the lowering of the amount of waste
being disposed of in landfill are important aspects of caring for our
environment. As a result of this, there is increasing pressure from society
and government to reduce the overall quantity of packaging in use and
to increase the proportion of packaging that is recycled. The Group
recognises its responsibility to contribute to the conservation of resources
and we are fulfilling this responsibility through both the provision of
packaging products which enable our customers to meet their environmental
objectives and the development of our recycling services.
Although packaging receives a lot of attention in the media, it plays an
important part in making modern lifestyles possible and its significance
should be seen in perspective. Packaging is just one, often relatively minor,
aspect of the total environmental impact of a product; ten times more energy
goes into the production of the food and goods that it contains than into
the packaging itself. In the UK, packaging of all types accounts for less
than 5% of total landfill waste and approximately 20% of household dustbin
waste
1
; approximately 60% of the packaging of all types used in the UK
is recycled
2
.
Our packaging businesses work with their customers to develop packaging
of the optimum specification for the required end-use. Most packaging
performs the valuable functions of protecting products, reducing product
wastage, enabling more efficient and lower-cost handling and transportation
and, in many cases, contributes to lowering the environmental impact of
the supply of goods. The choice of the most appropriate packaging material
and pack design for a particular product depends upon a wide range of
factors including the nature of the product itself, how the total supply chain
for the product operates and the requirements of retailers and consumers.
Corrugated packaging, the Group’s principal packaging product, is
100% recyclable and in the UK over 80% of all corrugated packaging is
recycled
3
. Although corrugated packaging is not generally reused, it is a
fully recyclable packaging material that is produced predominantly from
recycled paper in what is essentially a loop system, which is described in
more detail on page 15. Used corrugated boxes are recycled into paper;
this paper is converted into boxes which are packed with goods; retailers
or consumers discard the used boxes which are then collected for recycling
and delivered to the paper mill to be turned into paper once again.
Corrugated products are playing an increasingly important role in the
pursuit of sustainable, environmentally-friendly packaging. The Group
has been at the forefront of the trend to lower the weight of corrugated
packaging used through the use of lightweight paper and improved box
Our ‘think safe... be safe!’ campaign
has raised awareness of safety across
the Group.
Severnside Recycling collects used
paper packaging from industrial and
commercial sources.
1 Source: Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment (INCPEN)
2 Source: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)
3 Source: Confederation of Paper Industries (CPI) DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 33
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
design. DS Smith Packaging’s suite of PackRight tools enables the analysis
of all the factors relating to a particular pack to ensure that it is fit for
purpose, makes the supply chain efficient and reduces environmental
impact. In many instances our design and technical expertise enables the
customer to reduce the weight of raw materials used in a pack as well as
to pack the goods more efficiently; this reduces transport costs and thereby
the carbon emissions per unit.
In circumstances where packaging is designed to be reused many times,
plastic returnable transit packaging may be required by customers if the
packaging can be readily recovered, transported and cleaned for reuse.
Plastic bag-in-box packaging is increasingly being used to contain liquids
in bulk as well as for consumer use. It has significant benefits for storing
and transporting beverages and other liquids hygienically and securely,
and can substantially extend the storage life of products, thus reducing
product wastage. Bag-in-box packs are, in many instances, environmentally
superior to alternative packaging formats; they use space efficiently and
are relatively lightweight compared with bottles or drums so they may
reduce the overall energy usage in the supply chain because they can
be transported and stored more efficiently.
Our Packaging businesses continue to carry out work to evaluate the
carbon footprint of their products. This work is enabling us to collaborate
with other companies in our supply chain on analyses of the total
environmental impact of products that use our packaging. DS Smith
Packaging and Severnside Recycling are working together to help large
supermarket chains and other businesses to reduce the amount of waste
they send to landfill and improve their environmental performance with
regard to packaging.
Environmental management and regulation
The environmental performance and activities of the divisions are reviewed
at the Group Environment Committee, which meets three times a year and
is chaired by the Group Chief Executive. Under the terms of the Group’s
Environment Policy, which may be viewed on the Group’s website, each
of our sites is required to implement an environmental management system
(EMS) which is appropriate to its activity. Of our total operations, 37
have been identified as having higher potential environmental impact,
due to their size or type of activity; 36 of these are accredited under
the internationally recognised ISO 14001 EMS standard and the one
remaining operation is in the process of working towards this standard.
The Group’s other 46 operations, which are required to have in place a
simplified EMS, appropriate to their lower level of potential environmental
impact, review and improve these systems regularly, often with the assistance
of external auditors. As part of their EMS, many Group businesses have
procedures in place for assessing their suppliers’ environmental policies
and management systems, as appropriate.
The Group had a number of minor environmental incidents during the year,
following which prompt corrective action and steps to prevent any recurrence
were taken and, where necessary, the appropriate agencies were informed.
The Environment Agency has brought a case against St Regis Paper Company
Ltd in relation to alleged breaches of Higher Kings Mill’s Pollution Prevention
and Control (PPC) permit that occurred between December 2005 and March
2008. The charges primarily relate to the training of staff, record keeping
and the operation of the plant; an independent investigation has indicated
that these breaches did not result in any significant environmental impact.
The circumstances surrounding all environmental incidents are investigated
immediately and, when appropriate, the findings and lessons learnt
are communicated throughout the Group as part of our drive to reduce
such incidents.
The Group’s paper manufacturing operations account for over 80% of the
Group’s environmental impact, particularly because their manufacturing
process uses large quantities of energy and water. The UK paper mills
are regulated through PPC permits under which they each have specific
improvement programmes and targets. St Regis’ overall compliance with
its environmental permits fell to 94% in 2008/09 (2007/08: 98%)
principally due to lower performance of the effluent treatment plant at
Higher Kings Mill. Management actions taken have already improved
compliance significantly at the site with further improvements expected
in 2009/10. St Regis is a key participant in the UK paper sector Climate
Change Levy (CCL) Agreement with the Department of Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs under which the industry has undertaken to achieve energy
consumption reduction targets. St Regis met its target for the year to
September 2008 and is on course to meet its next target for the year
to September 2009.
The Group’s UK and French paper operations are subject to the terms
of their respective national schemes for implementing the EU Emissions
Trading Directive. We expect the Group’s emissions to be slightly below
our emissions allocations during EU ETS Phase 2. The effects of subsequent
phases from 2013 onwards are likely to be more onerous, being dependent
upon the details of the emissions allocations and the market price of carbon
under future phases of the scheme.
St Regis’ Kemsley and Wansbrough Mills have obtained certification under
the Forest Stewardship Council’s chain of custody standard. Although
initially set up to provide assurance that forestry products use material
that comes from responsibly managed sources, this standard has been
extended to include products such as recycled paper which are made
from recovered raw materials.
Environmental performance
Our businesses continue to take action and invest in order to reduce
their environmental impact. During the year, we employed independent
consultants, Bureau Veritas, to review our environmental data collection
and reporting process in order to ensure the robustness and accuracy of
the Group’s environmental performance indicators. This review concluded
that overall there was a good level of process control and reporting at the
sites but identified some areas for improvement, particularly in relation
to the conversion factors being used for converting energy usage into carbon
emissions. The recommendations of Bureau Veritas have been implemented.
As a consequence of this, and the inclusion of data for New Thames Mill,
acquired in February 2008, some of the data reported for 2007/08 has
been restated so that it is comparable with the data for 2008/09. The
Group’s overall environmental performance in 2008/09 is shown in the
table on page 34. A fuller report on our environmental performance is
available in the Corporate Responsibility section of our website.
Bales of waste paper are taken into
the new stock preparation plant at
Kemsley Mill.
Severnside is also a major collector
of plastic waste for recycling. BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
34 www.dssmith.uk.com
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1
2008/09 2007/08
Energy consumption
2
Gigawatt hours 3,247 3,606
Megawatt hours/£’000 revenue 1.54 1.73
Carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions
3
Scope 1 (direct) emissions – ‘000 tonnes 274 318
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions – ‘000 tonnes 653 689
Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions – ‘000 tonnes 927 1,007
Kilograms/£’000 revenue 440 484
Water usage
Million cubic metres 11.4 12.3
‘000 cubic metres/£’000 revenue 5.4 5.9
Waste management
4
Waste recycled – ‘000 tonnes 135 167
Waste sent to landspread – ‘000 tonnes 130 117
Waste-to-energy – ‘000 tonnes 102 119
Waste sent to landﬁll – ‘000 tonnes 71 63
Total waste generated – ‘000 tonnes 438 466
Kilograms/£’000 revenue 208 224
% of total waste sent to landﬁll 16% 13%
Methodology: The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the
extent that this is currently practicable. The figures reported above include data from all of the Group’s wholly-owned or majority-owned operations and sites worldwide. The methodology used is consistent for
2007/08 and 2008/09.
1 The Group’s data for 2007/08 has been restated from that reported in the 2008 Annual Report. The restatement is due to: a) the inclusion of data for New Thames Mill which was acquired in February
2008 and was not included in the previously published 2007/08 data but has now been included for the full year 2007/08, b) recalculated figures for CO
2
emissions using the latest available national
factors for converting electricity usage to CO
2
emissions, and c) the provision of additional detail in the waste data.
2 The energy figures relate to the usage of gas, electricity, coal, fuel oil, LPG and steam used on the Group’s sites, and diesel fuel for freight transport used in the Group’s own vehicles.
3 The CO
2
emissions have been calculated using the energy data, as defined above. The energy data has been converted into CO
2
emissions using the same conversion factors for both 2007/08 and
2008/09. The factors used for converting gas, coal, fuel oil and diesel usage into CO
2
emissions are as published by the UK Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) in the 2008
Guidelines to DEFRA’s GHG Conversion Factors. The factors used for converting electricity usage are the national figures for each country in which the Group operates sourced from the International
Energy Agency Data Services via the UK Carbon Trust; these factors therefore reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country. As required by the GHGP, Scope 1 and Scope 2
CO
2
emissions are reported separately. Scope 1 (direct) emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or vehicles owned by the Group; Scope 2 (indirect) emissions are those
arising from bought-in energy (i.e. electricity or steam) where the combustion has been carried out by another company. The 2008/09 Scope 1 emissions included 60,000 tonnes (2007/08: 69,000
tonnes) of CO
2
which were associated with the production of electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our CHP plants. Scope 3 emissions from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the
supply chains for the Group’s products and services are not included.
4 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations. The
data on waste identifies separately: a) the amount of waste that is conventionally recycled in the manufacture of other products, b) the quantity of waste cellulose fibre, generated in the paper-making
operations, which is recycled through agricultural use as landspread, c) the quantity of waste that is used for energy recovery at our waste-to-energy plant, and d) the waste that goes to landfill.
We have worked with DS Smith Plc to provide an independent
opinion on the Environmental Performance Indicators presented on
this page of DS Smith’s 2009 Annual Report. Having completed a
process incorporating site visits, document review and interrogation
of associated management and reporting systems, it is our opinion
that the presented performance indicators provide a fair and
accurate representation of DS Smith Plc’s performance.
DS Smith Plc should be commended on their approach to
performance indicator data collection, which is consistent across the
divisions with a clear understanding of the processes demonstrated
by both divisional and site managers. It is clear that DS Smith Plc
is constantly looking to improve these processes; both via internal
mechanisms, and as demonstrated in the proactive manner in
which the Company engaged Bureau Veritas on this project.
Bureau Veritas encourages DS Smith Plc to continue to improve
performance indicator data collection by extending the capture of
environmental data at all of its operations and to utilise the available
information to determine a set of targets to drive environmental
improvement at a Group level.
A full verification statement including our methodology, basis for our
opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement of
Bureau Veritas independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc
website (www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/CorporateResponsibility.asp).
June 2009
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd
London
VERIFICATION STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LTD DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 35
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
The Group consumed 10% less energy in 2008/09 compared with the
previous year. This reduction was principally due to lower activity levels
across the Group but also reflected improved energy efficiency at some of
our businesses. The Group’s lower energy usage in 2008/09 resulted in
an 8% reduction in total emissions of CO
2
. The Group’s total water usage
was 8% lower than in 2007/08. Although we reduced the total amount of
waste generated by our businesses by 6%, the proportion sent to landfill
increased slightly to 16%; this was principally due to higher levels of waste
being produced at Kemsley Mill, partly associated with the start-up of the
converted paper machine at New Thames Mill, which could not be
processed in the waste-to-energy plant.
Energy efﬁciency
Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the UK and Kaysersberg in
France, which account for approximately 65% of the Group’s energy
usage, have on-site combined heat and power (CHP) plants. These CHP
facilities provide energy more efficiently, with lower CO
2
emissions and
at significantly lower cost than if it were to be sourced from the external
grid. In addition, Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of energy recovery,
a substantial proportion of the reject material, such as plastic and
polystyrene, which enters its process mixed in with the waste paper and
is separated out during paper manufacture; the mill’s own waste-to-energy
plant efficiently recovers the energy to produce steam for use in the mill’s
operations. We are investigating the potential for installing a sustainable
energy plant at Kemsley Mill to reduce the mill’s reliance on fossil fuels.
The proposed fuel for this plant is hard-to-recycle materials, sourced
and pre-treated offsite, which might otherwise go to landfill.
DS Smith Packaging, which in 2008 became the first UK corrugated
packaging producer to be accredited under the UK’s Energy Efficiency
Accreditation Scheme, lowered its energy usage per square metre sold by
2% in 2008/09 through its division-wide energy management system and
a wide range of energy reduction projects. Both DS Smith Packaging and
DS Smith Kaysersberg have achieved substantial improvements in their
energy efficiency through programmes of process improvements on their
corrugator machines.
EMPLOYEES
We aim to create a working environment which will attract, retain and motivate
good people, and enable them to fulfil their potential. The Group ensures that
the divisions have in place appropriate structures, procedures and resources
to implement the employee-related aspects of the Group’s Key Corporate
Values, which include: providing fair opportunities for employment to all;
treating everyone with dignity and respect; not tolerating any form of
harassment or discrimination; ensuring advancement is based on merit;
and providing appropriate training and development opportunities. Our
businesses carry out training and implement various initiatives aimed at
reinforcing our values and policies in this area.
Box design can contribute to reducing
environmental impact by minimising
waste and increasing the efﬁciency
of transportation.
Spicers’ range includes many
environmentally beneﬁcial
products which are promoted
in ‘Green’ catalogues.
4 Source: Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development
The Group is committed to applying equal opportunities in all recruitment and
employment practices. It is also committed, as a minimum, to meeting the
labour rights and legislation requirements in each of the countries in which
it operates; in practice the Group often exceeds the local and international
requirements. As DS Smith’s operations are almost entirely located in member
countries of the OECD, human rights matters are not perceived as a
significant Group risk.
The annual turnover rate in the Group’s workforce worldwide of circa
10% compares favourably with the UK national average of circa 17%
4
.
Recruitment and retention of employees is not a significant issue for most of
the Group’s operations but the situation varies depending upon the alternative
employment opportunities in any particular location and the skills required.
Our divisions and businesses communicate with, and consult, their people
through newsletters, intranets, briefing meetings, local works councils, national
employee forums and a European Works Council. Many of our businesses
have increased the level of internal communications in light of the present
difficult economic environment to ensure that employees are aware of the
business’s plans and objectives. Employee surveys have been carried out
in a number of parts of the Group. Generally the results of these have been
positive; action has been taken to address any particular issues that have
been highlighted.
Training and development programmes are carried out by the Group’s
businesses to meet their specific needs for raising operational performance
and career development. The individual training and development needs of
employees are met through a variety of schemes including: management
development programmes, which in some cases involve external accreditation;
support for study for external vocational and professional qualifications;
and schemes for coaching and mentoring managers, using external and
internal resources.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
We seek to develop and maintain good relations in the local communities in
which we operate; this is particularly important as in many of the locations
where we operate we are one of the largest employers. As well as providing
significant employment opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions
to our communities and build a reputation as a good neighbour and
employer. Our businesses work closely with local schools and colleges
providing training, mentoring, work experience placements and other
opportunities for pupils to learn about industry and business. The Group
is involved in a wide range of other local community activities including
sponsorship of community projects or sports teams and provision of
adult skills training. Our businesses participate in liaison groups with
local residents, particularly at locations where there is a need to review
ways in which we can reduce any inconvenience to neighbours from our
operations as a result of traffic movements, odour or noise. Some sites hold
open days to foster relationships with their local communities. The Group
supports charitable fund-raising activities through cash contributions and in
the form of products and services or staff time. The majority of the modest
amount of money donated by the Group is given by individual operating
units, principally to good causes in their local communities. Donations
by the Group headquarters are principally focused on helping young
disadvantaged people become involved in business and working life. 36 www.dssmith.uk.com
PETER JOHNSON
+
Chairman
Appointed to the Board on 8 December
1999 as a Non-Executive Director. He
became Chairman of the Board on
1 January 2007 and is Chairman of
the Nomination Committee. He is a
Member of the Supervisory Board of
Wienerberger AG and was appointed
as a Non-Executive Director of SSL
International plc with effect from
1 October 2008. He was previously
Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc
and prior to that Chief Executive of The
Rugby Group PLC. Age 61.
TONY THORNE
§+
Group Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board on 1 January
2001 as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and
became Group Chief Executive on
5 December 2001. He was previously
President of SCA Packaging’s
Corrugated Business Division and
prior to that held senior management
positions in Shell. Age 58.
BOB BEESTON
†+
*
#
Appointed to the Board on 5 December
2000 as a Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and is the Senior Independent
Director. He is also Chairman of
Cookson Group plc and Elementis plc
and was previously Chief Executive of
FKI plc. Age 67.
STEVE DRYDEN
§
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008
as Group Finance Director. He was
appointed a Non-Executive Director of
Fiberweb plc with effect from 1 June
2009. He previously held the position of
Finance Director of Filtrona plc following
its demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005.
Prior to that he was divisional Finance
Director of the Filtrona businesses and
held other senior finance positions
within Bunzl plc. He began his career
at Price Waterhouse and has also
held various finance roles within
Rolls-Royce plc. Age 41.
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 37
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
CHRISTOPHER BUNKER
†+
*
#
Appointed to the Board on 9 December
2003 as a Non-Executive Director and
is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He
was previously Group Finance Director
of Thames Water Plc, Tarmac Plc and
Westland Group Plc. He is a Non-
Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc
and was a Non-Executive Director of
Mowlem Plc, Baltimore Technologies plc
and Xansa plc. Age 62.
RICHARD MARTON
†+
*
#
Appointed to the Board on 13 March
2000 as a Non-Executive Director. He
was previously Chief Executive and
then a Non-Executive Director of Britax
International plc. Age 68.
PHILIPPE MELLIER
†
*
Appointed to the Board on
7 September 2006 as a Non-Executive
Director. He is currently President of
Alstom Transport and an Executive Vice-
President of Alstom Group. Previously,
he was Chairman and CEO of Renault
Trucks and a Member of the Executive
Committee of AB Volvo, and prior to
that held senior management positions
with Renault S.A. and Ford Motor
Company. Age 53.
CAROLYN CATTERMOLE
Appointed Company Secretary on
20 November 2000. She was
previously Company Secretary of
Courtaulds Textiles plc and prior to
that was a senior legal adviser with
Courtaulds plc, having qualified as
a solicitor with Norton Rose. Age 48.
† Non-Executive Director
§ Member of General Purposes Committee
+ Member of Nomination Committee
*
Member of Remuneration Committee
# Member of Audit Committee GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
38 www.dssmith.uk.com
The Company is committed to the principle and application of sound
corporate governance.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the
provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006.
The Board has an ongoing review of its corporate governance policy.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have
been applied is set out below and in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Company’s Auditors have reviewed the compliance with those
provisions of the Combined Code specified for their review.
BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the
Company by directing and supervising the Company’s affairs. The Board’s
role is to provide leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent
and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Company’s strategic aims, ensures that the necessary
financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its
objectives, and reviews management performance.
In addition, the Board sets the Company’s values and standards and
ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood
and met.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and four
Non-Executive Directors. The offices of Chairman and Group Chief Executive
are held separately. Mr R G Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
As referred to in the Chairman’s Statement on page 6, MrGMB Adams
became Chief Executive of Spicers, the Group’s Office Products Wholesaling
division, with effect from 16 June 2009. As a result of this appointment
he resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 26 May 2009. As previously
announced, Mr J C Nicholls will join the Board with effect from 1 December
2009 and MrRECMarton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009,
having served nine years as a Non-Executive Director. During the year,
each of the Non-Executive Directors has at all times acted independently
of management and has no relationships which would materially interfere
with the exercise of their independent judgement and decision making.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year. During the year
under review it met eight times. All Board members attend all Board and
relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances prevent
them from attending. During the year, Mr Marton did not attend the Board
meeting or the Remuneration Committee meeting held in May 2008. There
were no other absences from any Board or Committee meetings by any
Director. In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and Group
Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors and hold
informal meetings with Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting
the Company. Once a year the Board visits a business unit and receives a
presentation from local management. Individual Directors are encouraged
to make additional site visits during the year. The Board continually
reviews the performance of all of the divisions and undertakes a strategic
review on an annual basis. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved
for consideration and approval for the Board. These include the annual
Plan, substantial acquisitions and disposals, the approval of the full-year
and half-year results and a review of the overall system of internal control
and risk management.
The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely
information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles
effectively. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary. A procedure is in place for any Director to take
independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the
Company’s expense. No such advice was sought by any Director during
the year. The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to
ensure that they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and
changing commercial risks. On appointment, new Directors are given
appropriate induction training, including site visits to major business units.
During the year, the Board carried out a comprehensive appraisal which
was led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director with the
assistance of an independent third party. The Board used external support
for the review process to give a degree of independence to the process.
The Board concluded that the review process showed that the Board and
its Committees operated effectively. The review resulted in an action plan
aimed at further enhancing the effectiveness of the Board. The review
comprised feedback from a questionnaire and individual discussions.
All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in the exercise.
The appraisal included the performance of Board Committees, although
a separate and more detailed appraisal of the Audit Committee was also
carried out during the year. In addition, the Senior Independent Director
conducted a review of the performance of the Chairman which concluded
that the Chairman had led the Board effectively. The Non-Executive
Directors met separately in April to give them the opportunity to discuss
any matters they wished to raise in the absence of the Chairman.
Board Committees
The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration
and Nomination Committees. The Audit and Remuneration Committees
comprise independent Non-Executive Directors. The Nomination
Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive
Directors. All Board Committees have written terms of reference
agreed by the Board. These are available on the Company’s website at
www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/CorporateGovernance.asp or are available
on request to the Company Secretary. The Audit Committee is chaired by
Mr C J Bunker, the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Beeston and
the Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr P M Johnson. The membership
of each Committee and the experience of its members can be seen on
pages 36 and 37. The Board has used the criteria proposed by the
National Association of Pension Funds for determining whether a Non-
Executive Director is independent.
Audit Committee
In addition to the Committee members listed on pages 36 and 37, the
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the
Head of Operational Audit and the Group Financial Controller attended
parts of each meeting by invitation. Mr Adams ceased to be a member
of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on 26 May 2009.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker has both current and relevant
financial experience.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least three
times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined Code
except the oversight of business risks which is the direct responsibility
of the Board. The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist
the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to:
• the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the
Group’s accounts;
• external financial reporting and associated announcements;
• the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration of the
Group’s Auditors;
• the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Group Operational
Audit department;
• the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control environment; and DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 39
• the Group’s compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external
Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit and the Group Finance Director.
The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine annually
their qualifications, expertise, resources, independence, objectivity, and
effectiveness. The Audit Committee receives written confirmation from the
external Auditors as to any relationships that might have a bearing on their
independence, whether they consider themselves independent within the
meaning of the UK regulatory and professional requirements, their quality
control processes and ethical standards.
The Committee monitors compliance with the Board’s policy in respect of
services provided by, and fees paid to, auditors. Audit fees are negotiated
with the Group Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee.
The policy on the supply of non-audit services by external auditors is as
follows. The Group should not employ the Auditors to provide non-audit
services where either the nature of the work or the extent of such services
might impair the Auditors’ independence or objectivity. The external
Auditors are permitted to undertake some non-audit services, providing
they have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the
best interests of the Group, on, for example, advisory services and due
diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions and disposals
and major changes in accounting regulations. Non-audit services and fees
are reported to the Audit Committee twice a year. For guidance, annual
non-audit fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75%
of the annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the
Committee: during 2008/09, non-audit fees were 10% of the annual
Group audit fee. Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought
as required by this Group policy which specifies that individual projects
which would cost over £100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of
the Committee for prior approval.
Deloitte LLP, a leading international audit partnership, was first appointed
as Auditor to the Group companies in 2006 and its fees are regularly
compared with peer companies by the Committee. There are no contractual
restrictions on the Group with regard to its appointment. In accordance with
professional standards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed
every five years.
During the year, the Committee met on three occasions and there were no
absences. On each of these occasions the Committee also met privately
with both the external Auditors and the Head of Operational Audit. The
Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private meetings
during the year with the external Auditors, the Head of Operational
Audit and the Group Finance Director.
At its meeting in June, the Committee reviewed the annual financial
statements of the Company and received reports from Group Operational
Audit on internal control matters and from the external Auditors on the
conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement
and the financial statements and their comments on statements concerning
risk and internal control. A similar review was undertaken in December when
the half-year results were considered. At these meetings and the meeting
in April, the Committee dealt with the following particular matters:
• it reviewed the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and Group
Operational Audit;
• at each meeting it received a report from the Head of Operational
Audit covering, amongst other things, the work undertaken by the Group
Operational Audit function and management responses to proposals
made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year;
• it considered the effectiveness of systems for monitoring and reporting
on risks faced by the Group;
• it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee
(as part of the Board evaluation process referred to on page 38), the
external Auditors and Group Operational Audit, the results of which
were reported to the Board. The Committee concluded that each area
operated satisfactorily during the year; and
• it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the Group’s
Workplace Malpractice Policy.
Nomination Committee
Mr Bunker became a member of the Committee in December 2008.
The Nomination Committee considers the appointment of Directors,
reviews succession planning at Board level and makes recommendations
to the Board as a whole. A rigorous process is in place for the
appointment of new Directors, involving the use of external recruitment
consultants followed by meetings both with the Committee and then with
the Board. The Committee met four times during the year and there were
no absences.
Remuneration Committee
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings
by invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed. The
Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration
of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary and
for advising on the remuneration of senior management. The Remuneration
Report is set out on pages 41 to 48. During the year, the Committee
met four times. Mr Marton did not attend the meeting in May 2008,
but otherwise there were no absences.
Other Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, to the
General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief Executive
and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of the Group
Chief Executive.
Conﬂicts of interest
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2008, the Company’s
Articles of Association were amended following implementation of the
relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to permit the Board of
Directors to authorise a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest
notified by a Director provided that the Board considers this to be in the
best interests of the Company.
Each of the Directors reviewed their individual positions prior to the
implementation date for the new legislation of 1 October 2008. The
Company has put procedures in place via the Company Secretary
whereby the Directors can notify any future conflicts or potential
conflicts of interest that may arise so that the Board can consider
whether authorisation is appropriate.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company has a programme of regular meetings (which sometimes
includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director), site visits
and results briefings with its major institutional shareholders, which
provides opportunities to discuss the progress of the business. The
Board also receives feedback from major shareholders in the form
of independently prepared reports. The Annual General Meeting
is used as an opportunity to communicate with private shareholders,
including a short presentation on the business and current trading
position as well as an opportunity for questions from investors to the
Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. Regular communication with shareholders also takes place
through the full-year and half-year reports and via the Company’s website
www.dssmith.uk.com.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
40 www.dssmith.uk.com
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system, however,
can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can
therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. In accordance with the Turnbull Committee
guidance, the Company established the procedures necessary to ensure
that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the significant risks to the Group. These procedures have been in place for
the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2009 and up to the date of
the approval of these financial statements and they are reviewed regularly.
In April 2008 a Group Risks Committee was established, comprised of the
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Human
Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional Chief Executives
and the Head of Operational Audit. This Committee meets at least four
times a year to review the risks faced by the Group and the adequacy and
suitability of the mitigation arrangements in place to manage those risks.
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which are required
to be brought to it for decision. The Board has delegated to management
the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate
to the business environments in which the Group operates. Key elements
of this system include:
• a set of Key Corporate Values which have been communicated to
all employees;
• a clearly defined divisionalised organisation structure for monitoring
the conduct and operations of individual business units;
• clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the
matters reserved for the Board;
• a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Group’s
operations are identified and assessed on a regular basis, together
with the controls in place to mitigate these risks. Risk consideration
is embedded in decision-making processes. The most significant risks
are periodically reported to the Board and considered by it;
• the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and
Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of
the corporate strategy;
• the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget,
forecasts (including bank covenant headroom) and the previous year,
with explanations obtained for all significant variances;
• clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment,
including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital
projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval;
• procedures manuals laying down common control procedures and
policies to apply throughout the Group; and
• formal monthly meetings between the Group Chief Executive,
the Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss
strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Group’s Operational Audit function undertakes regular reviews of
the Group’s operations and their systems of internal control and internal
financial control. The work of the function is overseen by the Audit
Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities. The Directors
can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control. This included a process of self-certification by
senior divisional management in which they are asked to confirm that their
divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and to
report any significant control weaknesses identified during the past
year. It also involved reviewing the results of the work of the Group’s
Operational Audit function and the risk identification and management
processes identified above.
GOING CONCERN
A review of the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in
pages 7 to 9 of the Chief Executive’s review of the year. The financial
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing
facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow, the accompanying
notes to the financial statements on pages 54 to 106 and in the Financial
Review on pages 22 to 26. Further information concerning the Group’s
objectives, policies and process for managing its capital, its financial risk
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging
activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found
in the section covering risk management on pages 27 to 29.
Management’s review of liquidity and the adherence to banking
covenants takes into account the Group’s budget and forecasts for the
next two financial years. Furthermore, the forecasts have been subjected
to a number of ‘downside’ and mitigation scenarios in order to evaluate
the impact on liquidity and adherence to banking covenants if the Group’s
plans are not achieved. A summary of the outcome of this evaluation
by management has been provided to, and discussed with, the Board
of Directors.
In arriving at their opinion, the Directors have taken into account the
risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic
environment. These risks are described in the section covering risk
management (pages 27 to 29). The planning assumptions and sensitivities
of these risks are covered on pages 27 to 29. The principal risks and
uncertainties which would have a direct impact on liquidity and banking
covenants are summarised below:
– changes in the demand for, or pricing of, the Group’s products and
services as a result of general economic conditions or market-specific
factors;
– volatility of pricing and availability of globally-traded raw materials;
– volatile and increasing energy prices;
– movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates;
– the funding position of the Group’s UK defined benefit pension scheme;
– the continuing availability of banking facilities, including compliance
with borrowing covenants; and
– customer credit risk.
The Directors consider that the Group has the flexibility to react to
changing market conditions. The action programme announced in
December 2008 is described on pages 7 to 9, and management will
take further actions, including additional restructuring, as may be
appropriate to the changing circumstances.
The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties as summarised above
and after making enquiries, including a review of recent performance, the
Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial
statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements. GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 41
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders’
approval of the Remuneration Report will be sought at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). The Remuneration Report has been
approved by the Board of Directors.
(A) COMPOSITION AND ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE (‘THE COMMITTEE’)
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. The
members of the Committee are Mr R G Beeston (Chairman), Mr C J Bunker,
MrRECMartonandMrPJ-C Mellier. As mentioned in the Chairman’s
Statement on page 6, Mr Marton will be retiring from the Board on
31 August 2009. The members of the Committee have no personal financial
interest, other than as shareholders of the Company, in the matters to be
decided by the Committee, no potential conflicts of interest arising from
cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee operates under written terms of reference agreed
by the Board which are available on the Company’s website,
www.dssmith.uk.com/downloads/RemunerationCommittee.pdf. The
Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of Executive
Directors, the Chairman of the Company and the Company Secretary.
It also considers the remuneration of senior executives reporting to the
Group Chief Executive (taking into account recommendations from him).
(B) COMPLIANCE
The Board, in conjunction with the Committee, has taken the necessary
steps to ensure that the Company complies with the provisions of the
Combined Code, which relate to Directors’ remuneration. Certain
disclosures in this Report fall within the scope of matters for review by
the Auditors.
(C) ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE
Hewitt New Bridge Street has been appointed by the Committee to
provide advice on the remuneration of Executive Directors and other
senior executives. Hewitt New Bridge Street also provides advice to the
Company in connection with the operation of the Company’s share-based
incentive schemes. The Committee consults with the Chairman of the
Company and with the Group Chief Executive, who may attend meetings
of the Committee, although they are not involved in deciding their own
remuneration. The Committee is assisted by the Company Secretary and
the Group Human Resources Director, and also receives advice from
Mercer Limited, the Actuary to the Company’s pension scheme, in relation
to Executive Directors’ pensions. Hewitt New Bridge Street provided no
other services to the Company during the year.
(D) GENERAL POLICY ON REMUNERATION
The Committee’s overall policy is to ensure that the remuneration packages
enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors
and other senior managers of sufficient calibre to meet the Company’s
needs. In addition, the remuneration packages are designed to align the
interests of executives and shareholders and to link a significant proportion
of executives’ remuneration to performance. To achieve this, the Company
operates cash and share-based incentive schemes which are linked to
the achievement of short-term and long-term performance targets. As in
previous years, the main elements of the remuneration policy in 2009/10
will be as follows:
• basic salary;
• pension provision;
• annual bonus scheme; and
• long-term incentives, comprising the Performance Share Plan.
Basic salaries and pension provision are not linked to performance
(except when basic salaries are reviewed), whilst payments under the
annual bonus scheme and any long-term incentive scheme operated by
the Company are wholly dependent upon performance against agreed
targets. Only basic salary is pensionable.
The Committee considered the operation of the annual bonus plan and the
terms of the Performance Share Plan during 2008/09. After weighing the
various factors (i.e. the outlook for the business over 2009/10, the reduction
in the Company’s share price over the last year and the need to ensure
that the Executive Directors and other senior executives are appropriately
incentivised to drive the business forward in these difficult times), and after
discussing the matter with the ABI, RiskMetrics and some major investors,
the Committee decided to make some changes to the annual bonus for
2009/10 and the Performance Share Plan award to be granted in 2009.
The remuneration policy (including the changes referred to above) is
described more fully in the remainder of this Report.
Variable performance-related remuneration for Executive Directors for
2009/10 will account for approximately 46% of total target remuneration
(excluding pensions and benefits).
(E) BASIC SALARIES
The basic salaries of Executive Directors are reviewed annually on 1 August,
in conjunction with other aspects of remuneration. The basic salary for each
Executive Director is targeted at the rates of salary for similar roles within
a selected group of UK businesses of similar size with substantial overseas
operations. When determining the level of salary, the Committee takes into
account market salary levels, the relative performance of the Group and of
the individual Director, together with his experience in the particular job. The
Committee also considers relevant information on the remuneration of other
senior executives and the pay of employees elsewhere in the Group and,
where appropriate, communicates its views on the levels of such remuneration
to the Group Chief Executive. During its deliberations, the Committee has
regard to salary levels in other countries where this is relevant for any non-UK
based senior executive. The table of emoluments of the Directors is given on
page 44. The current basic salaries of Mr A D Thorne and MrSWDryden
are £551,200 and £330,000 respectively. These were fixed on 1 August
2008 and 1 April 2008 respectively.
The Remuneration Committee has decided that, in light of the current
economic environment, the basic salaries for Executive Directors will
not be increased in 2009. The same applies to the majority of other
senior executives.
(F) ANNUAL BONUS
The Executive Directors participate in an annual bonus scheme which has
been approved by the Committee. For the financial year 2008/09, the
maximum bonus payable was 100% of basic salary for Mr Thorne and
Mr Dryden. Under the scheme, the first 25% of salary worth of bonus is
payable in cash, with the excess split equally between cash and deferred
shares. The deferred shares vest three years after they are awarded and
are held pursuant to the Deferred Share Bonus Plan. At that point, the
Director receives the shares and a payment equal to the value of dividends
payable on the vested shares during the deferral period.
If the Director ceases employment with the Group during the deferral
period, he will lose his right to the shares unless he is a defined ‘good
leaver’ or the Committee considers that vesting is appropriate in the
circumstances. The shares will vest in the event of a change of control
or voluntary winding-up. GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
42 www.dssmith.uk.com
The annual bonus payable to Mr Thorne and Mr Dryden for the financial
year 2008/09 was 50% based on a profit before tax target with the other
50% based on a return on capital employed target both as determined by
the Committee. The outcome of the results for the financial year 2008/09
means that no bonus is payable.
The Committee has considered the design of the annual bonus plan for
2009/10 and, taking account of the expected reduction in profits, the
Committee decided that for 2009/10, the maximum bonus potential for
Executive Directors will decrease from 100% to 75% of basic annual salary.
The bonus will continue to be based on profit before tax and return on capital
employed. As has been the practice in previous years, there will be a sliding
scale around the target for the year. The target is considered demanding
in the circumstances facing the Company and, recognising the expected
fall in profits, the payment schedule will be much more demanding. In
particular, there will be a significantly greater stretch above the target
for full payment and a lower proportion of bonus potential will be paid
at target and threshold.
In 2010, the Committee will review the maximum bonus potential for
2010/11 in light of the prevailing circumstances and, if considered
appropriate, the maximum bonus potential will return to 100% of
basic salary.
The annual bonus for the other most senior executives for 2008/09 was
based on an appropriate combination of Group profit before tax and
personal performance for centre-based senior executives. In the case of
senior divisional executives, their bonus schemes are based on divisional
profit and cash flow relating to the operating performance of the division
in which they are employed. For 2009/10, the bonus maximum will not
exceed 70% of basic salary and the bonus metrics will be similar.
The annual bonus schemes are not contractual and bonuses under the
schemes are not eligible for inclusion in the calculation of the participating
executives’ pension scheme benefits.
(G) SHARE AWARDS
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) which was
approved by shareholders in 2008. The individual grant limit under this
Plan is 150% of basic salary per annum. In exceptional circumstances
this may be increased to 200% of basic salary. During the financial year
2008/09, the Executive Directors received an award under the PSP of
150% of salary. The other most senior executives generally received a
PSP award of 100% of basic salary.
For 2008 awards, the vesting criteria were as follows:
• The vesting of each award was split into thirds, based on the Company’s
Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) compared to the constituents of the FTSE
250 Industrial Goods and Services Supersector, average adjusted
Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) and average adjusted Return on Average
Capital Employed (‘ROACE’).
• For those senior executives working in one of the four Business
Segments, the three measures were TSR, average adjusted operating
profit and average adjusted ROACE for the relevant segment.
• 25% of the TSR part vests if the Company is ranked median, rising
so that 100% vests if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile.
The threshold and upper targets for EPS were 16.5 pence and
19.0 pence and for ROACE were 11.5% and 12.5%.
Under the PSP, the Committee has the power to vary the metrics used each
year and their relative weightings. It also has the power to review the
specific targets for each award to ensure that they remain appropriate,
but the new targets must be at least as challenging in the circumstances
as the original targets were when they were set.
The Committee has given consideration to the terms of the 2009 PSP
awards. The Committee is aware of the fall in the Company’s share price
so, recognising that management should be aligned with shareholders,
proposes to reduce the 2009 award for Executive Directors to 100% of
basic salary. Award levels will also be reduced in similar proportions for
other senior managers.
Recognising that it is currently much more difficult to set three-year financial
targets than a year ago, it proposes to alter the weighting of the measures.
Accordingly, for 2009 awards, 80% of each award will be based on TSR
relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Industrial Goods and Services
Supersector, with 20% based on average adjusted ROACE. The
Committee has set the ROACE targets taking into account the business
outlook over the next three years. EPS will not be used this year because
the lack of visibility made it impracticable to establish an appropriate set
of targets. The targets will be as follows:
Percentage vesting Average
as a proportion of that Relative TSR
1
adjusted ROACE
2
element of the award (80% of award) (20% of award)
100% Upper quartile 11.5%
Between Between Between
25% and median and 10.3%
100% upper quartile and 11.5%
25% Median 10.3%
1 The Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250 currently contains over
50 companies and is considered to provide a better basis for comparison than the FTSE 250 as
a whole. The Committee considers there are too few publicly quoted competitors to DS Smith to
form a more bespoke group.
2 Average adjusted Group operating proﬁt divided by the monthly average of capital employed
in each year. The ROACE calculation will be based on the average ROACE for the
forthcoming three ﬁnancial years, commencing with the ﬁnancial year starting immediately
prior to the award.
For those senior executives working in one of the four Business Segments,
the Committee considers that the performance conditions should reflect
the relevant segment’s performance. Therefore, for these senior executives
the measures will be TSR and average adjusted ROACE for the relevant
segment. The results for each segment are reported in the Annual Report.
The Committee considers that these targets are demanding in the
circumstances and no less challenging in the circumstances than the
targets set last year.
As was disclosed in last year’s report, to facilitate his recruitment in 2008,
Mr Dryden was granted a conditional share award over 143,404 shares as
compensation for lost entitlements to deferred share bonus awards relating
to his previous employer. This award was made under the Replacement
Deferred Share Bonus Plan which was formed specifically for this purpose
and was granted under Listing Rule 9.4.2R(2). Full details of this Plan,
including details of the first vesting, are set out in section (R) below.
Senior executives are expected to retain in shares half of the after-tax gains
on the vesting of long-term incentive plan awards (including share options)
until they have built up a shareholding equal to 100% of basic salary in
the case of Executive Directors and 50% of basic salary in the case of
other senior executives. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 43
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and
awards made under the PSP (last award 2008), Long-Term Incentive Plan
(last award 2007), Deferred Share Bonus Plan (last award 2008) and
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan (last award 2008) and details
of options granted to date under the Executive Share Option Scheme
(last grant 2007) are shown on pages 45 to 47.
(H) BENEFITS IN KIND
Mr Thorne has the provision of a company car, a driver and free fuel
and receives supplementary life cover. Mr Dryden has the provision of
a company car and free fuel. Mr Thorne and Mr Dryden both receive
permanent health insurance and private medical cover. Mr Marton
received £241 in excess of the statutory HMRC authorised mileage
allowance payment.
(I) PENSIONS
Mr Thorne participates in a funded contributory defined benefit pension
scheme with death in service cover. He has a normal pension age of 60
and his pension is based on an accrual rate of one-thirtieth with reference
to basic salary less a deduction equal to the basic State pension. This is
subject to a maximum pension of two-thirds of final pensionable pay.
Mr Thorne’s benefits from the Registered Group Pension Scheme are
subject to a Scheme-specific earnings cap (the ‘Cap’) (which was
introduced on 6 April 2006 when the Government’s simplification
regulations came in and replaced the statutory earnings cap that had
previously applied). The Company has given a promise to provide the
balance of Mr Thorne’s pension entitlement through a non-Registered
unfunded arrangement. A charge over certain assets of the Company
has been made as security against future pension payments pursuant to
this pension arrangement on behalf of Mr Thorne. The total accumulated
unfunded provision at 30 April 2009 is £5.8 million (2007/08:
£5.9 million), £2.1 million of which relates to Mr Thorne.
Life cover of four times the Cap is provided under the Registered Group
Pension Scheme on death in service in addition to a spouse’s pension of
two-thirds of the member’s prospective pension plus dependants’ benefits.
Additional life cover of four times the excess of the Cap over basic salary
is provided. The spouse’s pension on death after retirement is two-thirds
of the member’s pension, before any reduction for early retirement or
commutation of pension for cash.
Pensions in payment from the Registered Group Pension Scheme are
increased annually in line with the increase in the UK Retail Prices
Index, subject to a maximum guaranteed increase of 5% each year for
pensionable service to May 2005, and 2.5% each year for service after
May 2005, with the possibility of further discretionary increases. There is
no allowance in the transfer value calculation basis for such discretionary
increases or other discretionary benefits.
Mr Thorne contributes to the Registered Group Pension Scheme at the
rate of 15% of the Cap.
Following the introduction of the UK Government’s simplification
regulations, the Principal Employer has agreed with the Trustee the
changes to the Registered Group Pension Scheme rules in response
to the legislation. Prior to the change in legislation, members of the
Registered Group Pension Scheme had the option of paying Additional
Voluntary Contributions (AVCs). Neither the contributions nor the resulting
benefits are included in the table on page 48. As there is no longer a
requirement for pension schemes to provide an AVC facility, the Scheme
closed this facility to new AVC contributors on or after 1 June 2006.
New AVCs can be facilitated via the Group’s Saver Plus arrangement.
Mr Dryden participates in the Company’s Registered Defined Contribution
Scheme with death in service cover equal to four times basic salary.
Members of this scheme are required to contribute a minimum of 3% of
their basic salary to qualify for matching Company contributions, with
higher levels of Company contributions payable (up to a maximum of
6%) if the members pay a higher contribution. Mr Dryden has elected
to pay contributions at a level that qualifies for the maximum Company
contribution. Mr Dryden also receives a cash supplement of £65,000
per annum. This payment is not pensionable and is not considered to
be salary for the purpose of calculating any bonus payment.
(J) SERVICE CONTRACTS AND COMPENSATION
The Committee’s general policy is that the notice periods for Executive
Directors appointed in future will not exceed one year, although on
appointment it may be necessary in exceptional cases to offer a longer
initial period which reduces to one year or less after a specific date.
The service contract for Mr Thorne is dated 28 February 2001. It may be
terminated by 12 months’ notice by the Company, and by Mr Thorne. The
Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect, in which case
it must make a payment equating to 12 months’ basic salary, plus an equal
payment in respect of the loss of his contractual benefits.
The service contract for Mr Dryden is dated 1 April 2008. It may be
terminated by 12 months’ notice by the Company, and by Mr Dryden.
The Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by making
a payment equal to 12 months’ basic salary. Alternatively, the Company
may make such payment in monthly instalments. These monthly payments
will be reduced to take account of alternative employment or consultancy
income during the 12-month period.
(K) POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
Executive Directors are allowed to accept external appointments as a
Non-Executive Director of up to two other companies provided that these
are not with competing companies and are not likely to lead to conflicts
of interest. In normal circumstances, the Group Chief Executive may
not accept more than one external appointment. Executive Directors
are normally allowed to retain the fees paid from these appointments.
Mr Thorne has no external appointments. Mr Dryden was appointed
as a Non-Executive Director of Fiberweb plc on 1 June 2009.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
44 www.dssmith.uk.com
(L) FEES FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE CHAIRMAN
The remuneration for Non-Executive Directors consists of annual fees for their services as members of the Board and, where relevant, for their work
on selected Committees. Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for a term of three years whereupon they are normally renewed but for
no more than three terms in aggregate. Their respective dates of appointment are shown on pages 36 and 37.
The Chairman’s remuneration consists of an annual fee for his service as Chairman of the Board and his letter of appointment is for a term of three
years. His appointment may be terminated by three months’ notice by the Company, and by the Chairman.
The current rates for the Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ fees are as follows:
Senior
Independent Chairman Chairman of
Non-Executive of Audit Remuneration
Base fee Director fee Committee fee Committee fee Total
Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ fees £ £ £ £ £
P M Johnson 168,000 – – – 168,000
R G Beeston 45,000 2,500 – 7,500 55,000
C J Bunker 45,000 – 8,500 – 53,500
R E C Marton 44,700 – – – 44,700
P J-C Mellier 49,200 – – – 49,200
In line with the decision not to raise the salaries of the Executive Directors and other senior executives, it has also been decided that there will be no
increase to the fees for the Non-Executive Directors or the Chairman in 2009.
Neither the Non-Executive Directors nor the Chairman is eligible for pension scheme membership and they do not participate in any of the Group’s
annual bonus, share option or other incentive arrangements.
(M) DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS (AUDITABLE)
Salary/ Annual Pension 2009 2008
fees bonus Beneﬁts supplement total total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
P M Johnson 166 – 23 – 189 180
Group Chief Executive
A D Thorne 546 Nil 19 – 565 1,023
Group Finance Director
S W Dryden 330 Nil 27 65 422 62
Non-Executives
G M B Adams 44 – – – 44 11
R G Beeston 54 – – – 54 52
C J Bunker 53 – – – 53 50
R E C Marton 44 – – – 44 42
P J-C Mellier 49 – – – 49 46
1,286 – 69 65 1,420 1,466
Mr Dryden received an additional non-pensionable pension supplement payment during the year. The total emoluments of Mr Thorne for 2008/09 were
£565,000 (2007/08: £847,000 excluding the deferred element of his bonus which is disclosed separately in (Q)). The total emoluments of Mr Dryden
were £422,000 (2007/08: £62,000). DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 45
(N) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (AUDITABLE)
Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan, which is described in more detail on page 42, are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards Interests Vesting
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price under the date if
the Plan at made crystallised Date of on date of on date of Plan at performance
Executive Directors 30 April 2008 during year in year award award (p) vesting (p) 30 April 2009 conditions met
A D Thorne – 619,325 – 17 Sep 08 133.5 – 619,325 17 Sep 11
S W Dryden – 370,786 – 17 Sep 08 133.5 – 370,786 17 Sep 11
The vesting of each award granted in 2008 is split into equal thirds, based on the Company’s TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250
Industrial Goods and Services Supersector, average adjusted EPS and average ROACE. 25% of the TSR part vests if the Company is ranked median,
rising until 100% vests if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile. The threshold (at which 25% vests) and maximum targets are 16.5p and 19.0p
for EPS and 11.5% and 12.5% for ROACE.
(O) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARE OPTIONS (AUDITABLE)
Following shareholder approval of the PSP in September 2008, the Executive Share Option Scheme ceased to be operated, the last award having been
made in 2007. Directors’ interests in share options over ordinary shares are as follows:
Options Options Options
Options granted exercised lapsed Options Dates
held at during during during held at Exercise from which Expiry
Name of Director 30 April 2008 the year the year the year 30 April 2009 price (p) exercisable date
A D Thorne 243,979 – – – 243,979 135.23 26 Jul 05 25 Jul 12
241,245 – – – 241,245 149.22 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
207,500 – – – 207,500 159.00 2 Aug 08 1 Aug 15
239,050 – – – 239,050 149.00 1 Aug 09 31 Jul 16
155,600 – – – 155,600 240.00 31 Jul 10 30 Jul 17
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration. The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 April 2009 was 77.7p and the range during
the year was 49.0p to 148.5p. Aggregate gains made by Directors on exercise of share options in the year were £nil (2007/08: £nil). All options will
be exercisable from the dates stated above, subject to them satisfying the performance target. There is no retest facility for options granted since 2004.
For these share options to become exercisable, the growth in the Company’s normalised EPS must match or exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices
Index plus an average of 3% per annum over three years. During the transition to IFRS, the Committee has ensured that a consistent basis was used
to measure earnings per share performance. Options granted in 2002, 2003 and 2005 became exercisable when they passed their respective
performance conditions in 2008. Based on EPS performance to 30 April 2009, the options granted in 2006 will also become exercisable.
For this purpose, the EPS growth is based on adjusted EPS as disclosed in the Annual Report, except that the Committee may adjust this figure in
exceptional circumstances where this is appropriate. The verification of the calculation of EPS growth has been performed by Hewitt New Bridge Street,
in their capacity as advisers to the Committee.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
46 www.dssmith.uk.com
(P) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (AUDITABLE)
Following shareholder approval of the PSP in September 2008, the Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) ceased to be operated, the last award having been
made in 2007. Details of the Directors’ interests in the LTIP are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards Interests Vesting
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price under the date if
the Plan at made crystallised Date of on date of on date of Plan at performance
Executive Director 30 April 2008 during year in year award award (p) vesting (p) 30 April 2009 conditions met
A D Thorne 210,191 – 210,191 28 Jul 05 157.0 – – 28 Jul 08
237,500 – – 27 Jul 06 150.0 – 237,500 27 Jul 09
156,768 – – 26 Jul 07 238.2 – 156,768 26 Jul 10
The awards made under the LTIP will vest based on the Company’s TSR (being the increase in the share price and the value of reinvested dividends)
compared to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). If the Company’s TSR is ranked at the upper quartile of the
group or higher, the full award will vest reducing on a straight-line basis to 30% of the award vesting for median performance. None of the award vests
for below median performance. TSR performance is measured over a single period of three financial years starting with the year in which the award
is made.
In addition to the TSR condition, no awards will vest, irrespective of TSR performance, unless the Company’s EPS growth matches or exceeds the growth
in the Retail Prices Index over the three-year period. For this purpose, following the introduction of IFRS, the EPS growth will be based on adjusted EPS
as disclosed in the Annual Report, except that the Committee may adjust this figure in exceptional circumstances where this is appropriate.
The calculation of TSR performance is performed by Hewitt New Bridge Street, in their capacity as advisers to the Committee.
The awards made under the LTIP in 2005 lapsed during the year as the performance conditions were not met. Based on TSR performance to 30 April
2009, the awards made under the LTIP in 2006 will also lapse.
(Q) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE DEFERRED SHARE BONUS PLAN (AUDITABLE)
Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards Interests Vesting
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price under the date if
the Plan at made crystallised Date of on date of on date of Plan at performance
Executive Director 30 April 2008 during year in year award award (p) vesting (p) 30 April 2009 conditions met
A D Thorne 69,473 – – 26 Jul 07 238.7 – 69,473 26 Jul 10
– 153,122 – 23 Jul 08 115.3 – 153,122 23 Jul 11 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 47
(R) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE REPLACEMENT DEFERRED SHARE BONUS PLAN (AUDITABLE)
Awards
granted/ Awards Interests Vesting
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price under the date if
the Plan at made crystallised Date of on date of on date of Plan at performance
Executive Director 30 April 2008 during year in year award award (p) vesting (p) 30 April 2009 conditions met
S W Dryden 30,226 – 30,226 1 Apr 08 156.5 70.0 – 1Mar09
38,504 – – 1 Apr 08 156.5 – 38,504 1Mar10
74,674 – – 1 Apr 08 156.5 – 74,674 1Mar11
In recognition of the loss of his entitlement to deferred share bonus awards relating to his previous employment, Mr Dryden was made an award of
143,404 shares (which is neither pensionable nor transferable) on 1 April 2008, the date on which he joined DS Smith Plc. The Committee made this
award, in exceptional circumstances, to facilitate the recruitment of Mr Dryden as the new Group Finance Director. The number of shares awarded was
determined by reference to the value of the entitlement to shares he forfeited under his previous arrangements.
The first tranche vested on 1 March 2009 and were transferred to Mr Dryden on 2 March 2009 (being the first working day after vesting). At the
same time, Mr Dryden sold 12,429 of the acquired shares at a price of 70.0p per share in order to pay the income tax, NIC and dealing expenses due
following the vesting. In normal circumstances, the remaining shares will vest in two tranches, as shown in the table above, subject only to Mr Dryden’s
continued employment with the Company. These dates correspond to the dates when Mr Dryden’s arrangements in his previous employment would
have vested.
(S) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company were as shown below.
30 April 2008 30 April 2009
Name of Director Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial
P M Johnson 230,000 – 255,000 –
A D Thorne 301,862 – 331,862 –
S W Dryden –– 32,797 –
G M B Adams 2,000 – 2,000 –
R G Beeston 50,000 – 50,000 –
C J Bunker 10,000 – 10,000 –
R E C Marton 100,000 – 100,000 –
P J-C Mellier 10,000 – 10,000 –
There have been no changes to the shareholdings set out above between the financial year-end and the date of the Report. It is currently intended that
any ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the Replacement Deferred Share
Bonus Plan and the Performance Share Plan will be provided by the David S Smith Group General Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’), which buys shares
on the market to do so. The Trust will also be used to fulfil certain entitlements under the Executive Share Option Scheme (along with new issue shares for
other entitlements).
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
48 www.dssmith.uk.com
(T) DIRECTORS’ PENSION ENTITLEMENTS (AUDITABLE)
Mr Thorne was a member of the defined benefit scheme provided by the Group during the year, with death in service cover. His pension entitlement and
corresponding transfer values increased as follows:
Transfer value
of net increase Total change
Increase in accrual Transfer value Transfer value in value during
Gross increase in accrued Total accrued over period of accrued of accrued period (net of
in accrued pension net pension at (net of Director’s pension at pension at Director’s
pension of inﬂation 30 April 2009 contribution) 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 contribution)
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Name of Director £ £ £ ££££
A D Thorne 23,430 17,349 145,048 359,003 3,148,759 2,301,681 829,438
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year. Transfer values have
been calculated in accordance with the Group Pension Scheme Trustee’s method and assumptions for the calculation of Cash Equivalent Transfer Values
and version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. The value of net increase (4) represents the incremental value to the Director
of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year-end. It is based on the accrued pension increase (2) after
deducting the Director’s contribution. The change in transfer value (7) includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the
control of the Company and Directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the Director’s contribution.
(U) TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE
The following graph illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return performance since 1 May 2004, in accordance with paragraph 4 of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, relative to the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and, accordingly, this index is considered to be the most appropriate comparator group for this purpose.
This graph looks at the value, by 30 April 2009, of £100 invested in Smith (DS) over the last five financial years compared with that of £100 invested
in the FTSE Mid 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
On behalf of the Board
BOB BEESTON
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 June 2009
0
50
100
150
200
250
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Value £
Smith (DS) FTSE 250 Index Source: Thomson Financial
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 49
The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial
statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2009. The Directors’
statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, as required by
Section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, is on page 51.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW
The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during
2008/09, was engaged in the supply of corrugated and plastic packaging
and of paper, from recycled waste, and the wholesaling of office products.
A full review of the activities during the financial year ended 30 April 2009
is set out on pages 1 to 35. The principal risks and uncertainties facing
the Group are discussed on pages 27 to 29. A discussion of future
developments and key performance indicators that management use
is set out in the Business Review on page 11. The principal subsidiary
undertakings are listed in note 32 on page 100.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be
found in the Business Review on pages 1 to 35, which are incorporated
in this report by reference.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members
of the Company and no-one else. The Annual Report contains certain
forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance
and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements
involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results
and developments to differ from those anticipated. The forward-looking
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of
preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no
obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
The financial results are shown on pages 54 to 106.
DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary share was paid on 3 March
2009 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.8p net per ordinary
share, making a total dividend to be paid for the year of 4.4p (2007/08:
8.8p) net per ordinary share. Subject to approval of shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 September 2009, the final dividend
will be paid on 15 September 2009 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 14 August 2009. The dividends per ordinary share
stated above are those actually paid or to be paid.
SHARE CAPITAL
Details of the authorised and issued share capital and the rights and
restrictions attached to the shares, together with details of movements in
the Company’s issued share capital during the year are shown in note 23.
No shares pursuant to the Company’s executive share option schemes
were issued between 30 April 2009 and 24 June 2009 inclusive. The
Company has not utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares
granted to it at the 2008 Annual General Meeting but will be seeking to
renew such authority at this year’s Meeting.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
At 24 June 2009, the Company has been informed of the following
notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital in accordance with
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority:
Ordinary shares held %
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 73,138,604 18.59%
Standard Life Investments Ltd 24,771,975 6.30%
Sparinvest Holdings A/S 19,992,238 5.08%
AXA S.A. 16,561,204 4.21%
Legal & General Group plc 15,711,163 3.99%
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
On 2 September 2008 the Group acquired the assets of Vale Paper
Limited, a waste paper collection business in the UK for a consideration
of £1.2 million. Further deferred consideration of £0.5 million is due
18 months after the acquisition subject to certain performance measures
being achieved.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group recognises the importance of continuing to invest in research
and development. It is Group policy to develop new product specifications
commensurate with environmental needs and packaging solutions required
by customers. Research is also conducted into ways to improve product
quality and to find more cost-efficient methods of production and distribution.
Research and development is conducted within divisional operations and
expenditure is not significant.
DIRECTORS
The biographies of the present Directors are on pages 36 and 37. All the
Directors served throughout the year. MrGMB Adams became Chief
Executive of Spicers, the Group’s Office Products Wholesaling division,
on 16 June 2009. As a result of this appointment he resigned as a
Non-Executive Director on 26 May 2009. As previously announced,
Mr J C Nicholls will join the Board with effect from 1 December 2009
andMrRECMarton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009.
Other than as previously disclosed in this Report and in respect of existing
service agreements, no Director, either during or at the end of the financial
year, has been materially interested in any significant contract or
arrangement in relation to the Group’s business.
In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 the Directors disclose
that the rules regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors are
contained in the Company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’), which may
only be amended with shareholder approval in accordance with relevant
legislation. The powers of the Directors are contained in the Company’s
Memorandum of Association and Articles. The Articles give the Directors
powers, subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and buy-back
of the Company’s shares by the Company, subject to authority being given
to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting. The Company annually
seeks the authority of shareholders to authorise the exercise by Directors of
these powers.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
50 www.dssmith.uk.com
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Articles require that all Directors who have either been appointed by the
Board since the last Annual General Meeting, or for whom the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting is the third Annual General Meeting since they
were appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in general meeting,
retire from office but they are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by
the shareholders. The Director retiring by rotation at the Annual General
Meeting on 8 September 2009 is Mr P M Johnson but being eligible, offers
himself for re-election. Formal performance evaluation has confirmed that
the individual performance of the Director offering himself for re-election
has been effective and he has demonstrated commitment to the role.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary
shares of 10p each of the Company, including options granted but not
yet exercised under the Performance Share Plan, Long-Term Incentive
Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan, were as shown in the tables on
pages 45 to 47.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity
arrangements for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope
which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS
The Group is committed to frequent and effective employee communications
to promote the understanding and involvement of all its employees in
the Group’s business objectives and performance. Communications
and personnel policies have been developed to reflect the philosophy of
operating management. Information is regularly communicated by briefings
and newsletters. The Group operates a European Works Council, with
representatives drawn from across the entire workforce in the EU countries
in which the Group operates. Meetings are held to provide an exchange
of transnational information and consultation with employees. At each
meeting, presentations are made on the Group’s business strategy, financial
results, health and safety and environmental performance. The Group also
has a number of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote
information exchange, consultation and representation between the Group
and its workforce. Business decisions concerning capital investment,
employment and training take into account the Group’s public and local
responsibilities. The Group supports the involvement of its operations in
local community activities.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
The Group is firmly committed to both the principle and realisation of
equal opportunities in employment and its policies are designed to provide
such equality irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual
orientation, age or disability. Every possible step is taken to ensure that
individuals are treated equally and fairly. The Group applies the same
criteria to people with disabilities as it does to other employees. Where
appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining is offered to any
employee who develops a disability during their employment.
PENSION FUND
The Group had, in the year under review, four UK pension arrangements:
one defined benefit scheme (which is closed to new employees), one
defined contribution scheme, one Group personal pension plan and a
statutory Stakeholder arrangement. The defined contribution scheme was
introduced for UK employees joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005.
The investments of the assets of the defined benefit scheme are managed
on a discretionary basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional Investment
Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited,
Majedie Asset Management Limited, Pacific Investment Management
Company and Barclays Global Investors Limited. The defined contribution
scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering members a range of
investments with AXA Sun Life plc and other external investment fund
managers as selected by the Scheme’s trustees. The Group personal
pension plan is a contract-based arrangement offering members a range
of investments with Norwich Union Life and other external investment fund
managers, and the Stakeholder arrangement is provided through Investment
Solutions Limited. All such assets are held independently from the Group.
The trustees of the defined benefit scheme and the defined contribution
scheme send an Annual Report to all members of the respective schemes.
The Trustee Company of the defined benefit scheme has an Investment
Sub-Committee, established in line with the recommended guidelines of
the Myners Report. Peter Murray of Allenbridge Investment Consultants
is appointed as an independent adviser to the Investment Sub-Committee
of the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote all
aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees and members
of the public. A Health and Safety Policy Statement has been approved by
the Board.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS
The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that
take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
The Company has a number of borrowing and related derivative facilities
provided by various lenders. These facilities agreements generally include
change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of ownership
of the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
The significant agreements are as set out in note 19. On 3 March 2005,
the Company, St Regis Paper Company Limited and BPB United Kingdom
Limited (now part of the Saint-Gobain Group) (‘Saint-Gobain’) entered into
a supply agreement for the manufacture and supply of plasterboard liner
paper to Saint-Gobain. Saint-Gobain may terminate the agreement if there
is a change of control in the Company.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate
upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such
as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements. None is considered
to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the
Group as a whole.
PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS
Although the Company does not follow any formal code or standard on
payment practice, the Company agrees terms and conditions in the UK
with each supplier, which include terms of payment. The Company pays
each supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms and conditions of the
order being satisfied by such supplier. As DS Smith Plc is a holding
company, whose principal business is to hold shares in Group companies,
it has no trade creditors.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Group contributed £78,000 (2007/08: £72,000) to charities in the
UK. No payments were made to political parties. Donations were made
by operating divisions to support their local communities. The Group
also supported a number of other charities across a range of causes. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 51
REGISTERED OFFICE
From the end of August 2009 the registered office of the Company will
change from 4-16 Artillery Row, London SW1P 1RZ to Beech House,
Whitebrook Park, 68 Lower Cookham Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire
SL6 8XY.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on
8 September 2009, together with explanations of the Resolutions to be
proposed, appears at the back of this Annual Report.
AUDITORS
Each Director confirms that:
(a) so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
(b) he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the
Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
CAROLYN CATTERMOLE
Company Secretary
24 June 2009
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE
ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for
each financial year. The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation
to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The
Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4
of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements
present fairly for each financial year the Company’s financial position,
financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income
and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s
‘Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements’. In
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance
with all applicable IFRSs. However, Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the
entity’s financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
applicable law). The parent Company financial statements are required
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company
and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing
these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
(a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken
as a whole; and
(b) the management report includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
TONY THORNE
Group Chief Executive
STEVE DRYDEN
Group Finance Director
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING 52 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
53 Independent Auditors’ Report
54 Consolidated Income Statement
55 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
56 Consolidated Balance Sheet
57 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
58 1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
63 2. Segment reporting
65 3. Operating proﬁt
66 4. Exceptional items
67 5. Finance income and costs
6. Personnel expenses
68 7. Income tax expense
69 8. Earnings per share
9. Dividends
70 10.Intangible assets
72 11.Property, plant and equipment
74 12.Investment in associates
13.Other investments
75 14.Inventories
15.Trade and other receivables
16.Trade and other payables
76 17.Net debt
18.Cash and cash equivalents
77 19.Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
80 20.Financial instruments
87 21.Deferred tax assets and liabilities
88 22.Provisions
89 23.Capital and reserves
90 24.Post-retirement beneﬁts
93 25.Share-based payment expense
97 26.Cash generated from operations
98 27.Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement in net debt
28.Operating leases
29.Capital commitments
99 30.Acquisitions and disposals
31.Related parties
100 32.DS Smith Group companies
33.Subsequent events
101 Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PREPARED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH UK GAAP
102 1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
103 2. Pensions
3. Employee information
104 4. Tangible ﬁxed assets
5. Fixed asset investments
6. Debtors
105 7. Creditors
8. Provisions for liabilities
9. Share capital
106 10.Reserves
11.Contingent liabilities
107 Five-Year Financial Summary DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 53
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DS SMITH PLC
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of DS Smith Plc for the year
ended 30 April 2009 which comprise the Group Income Statement,
the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow
Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
and the related notes 1 to 33. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that
has been applied in the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
as adopted by the European Union. The ﬁnancial reporting framework
that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company ﬁnancial
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements
and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility
is to audit the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical
Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that the
ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
• the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2009
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and
• the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards
the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE
COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year
for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with
the ﬁnancial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT
BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Group, or
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or
• the Group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are
not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement contained within Corporate Governance
in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006
Combined Code speciﬁed for our review.
COLIN HUDSON B COM, FCA.
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
24 June 2009 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 30 April 2009
54 www.dssmith.uk.com
Before After Before After
exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional
items items (note 4) items items items (note 4) items
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2 2,106.6 – 2,106.6 1,967.5 – 1,967.5
Cost of sales (1,604.4) – (1,604.4) (1,468.7) – (1,468.7)
Gross proﬁt 502.2 – 502.2 498.8 – 498.8
Operating expenses 3 (408.2) (50.6) (458.8) (379.2) (1.9) (381.1)
Operating proﬁt 2,3 94.0 (50.6) 43.4 119.6 (1.9) 117.7
Finance income 5 2.5 – 2.5 3.3 – 3.3
Finance costs 5 (26.1) – (26.1) (24.1) – (24.1)
Employment benefit net finance income 24 1.5 – 1.5 8.8 – 8.8
Net ﬁnancing costs (22.1) – (22.1) (12.0) – (12.0)
Proﬁt after ﬁnancing costs 71.9 (50.6) 21.3 107.6 (1.9) 105.7
Share of profit/(loss) of associates 12 0.6 (5.1) (4.5) 3.4 – 3.4
Proﬁt before income tax 72.5 (55.7) 16.8 111.0 (1.9) 109.1
Income tax (expense)/credit 7 (22.6) (5.4) (28.0) (31.6) 0.7 (30.9)
(Loss)/proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 23 49.9 (61.1) (11.2) 79.4 (1.2) 78.2
(Loss)/proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to:
DS Smith Plc equity shareholders 23 49.3 (61.1) (11.8) 77.8 (1.2) 76.6
Minority interest 23 0.6 – 0.6 1.6 – 1.6
Basic earnings per share (pence) 8 12.6p (15.6) (3.0)p 19.9p (0.3) 19.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 8 12.6p (15.6) (3.0)p 19.8p (0.4) 19.4p
Dividend per share
– interim, paid (pence) 9 2.6p 2.6p
– final, proposed (pence) 9 1.8p 6.2p
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
For the year ended 30 April 2009
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 55
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 24 (123.4) (73.0)
Movements on deferred tax relating to actuarial losses 34.9 21.4
Currency translation gains, including tax of £14.5m (2008: tax of £11.0m) 0.7 25.0
Cash flow hedges (losses)/gains, including tax of £3.9m (2008: tax of £(5.7)m) (10.3) 14.5
Net expense recognised directly in equity (98.1) (12.1)
(Loss)/proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 23 (11.2) 78.2
Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity
shareholders and minority interest relating to the ﬁnancial year (109.3) 66.1
Total recognised income and expense relating to the ﬁnancial year attributable to:
DS Smith Plc equity shareholders (110.3) 63.8
Minority interest 1.0 2.3 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at 30 April 2009
56 www.dssmith.uk.com
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 222.0 215.2
Property, plant and equipment 11 637.1 607.1
Investments in associates 12 0.3 30.0
Other investments 13 0.8 1.5
Deferred tax assets 21 73.2 31.4
Other receivables 15 0.9 0.8
Derivative financial instruments 20 13.7 10.2
Total non-current assets 948.0 896.2
Current assets
Inventories 14 170.2 187.7
Other investments 13 0.5 0.1
Income tax receivable 1.3 1.6
Trade and other receivables 15 356.1 406.9
Cash and cash equivalents 18 62.9 69.7
Derivative financial instruments 20 11.7 7.3
Total current assets 602.7 673.3
Total assets 1,550.7 1,569.5
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (331.5) (260.7)
Post-retirement benefits 24 (191.3) (75.9)
Other payables 16 (3.8) (4.0)
Provisions 22 (14.0) (15.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (70.5) (71.2)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (23.7) (41.2)
Total non-current liabilities (634.8) (468.7)
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 18 (8.8) (13.7)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (5.8) (6.4)
Trade and other payables 16 (412.1) (455.0)
Income tax liabilities (10.0) (9.7)
Provisions 22 (22.1) (13.3)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (0.7) (0.8)
Total current liabilities (459.5) (498.9)
Total liabilities (1,094.3) (967.6)
Net assets 456.4 601.9
Equity
Issued capital 23 39.3 39.3
Share premium 23 263.1 263.1
Reserves 23 155.6 299.3
DS Smith Plc shareholders’ equity 458.0 601.7
Minority interest 23 (1.6) 0.2
Total equity 456.4 601.9
Approved by the Board on 24 June 2009 and signed on its behalf by
A D Thorne, Director
S W Dryden, Director
The notes on pages 58 to 100 form part of these accounts.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 30 April 2009
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 57
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Cash generated from operations 26 166.4 179.8
Interest received 1.1 2.6
Interest paid (24.1) (19.4)
Dividends received from associate – 1.0
Tax paid (21.0) (27.8)
Cash ﬂows from operating activities 122.4 136.2
Investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses and joint ventures, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (1.2) (89.2)
Disposal of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of – 2.0
Capital expenditure payments (87.4) (66.5)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7.7 8.2
(Purchases)/proceeds from the sale of investments in associates and other investments, net of additions of
£0.4m (2008: £1.0m) (0.1) 1.1
Cash ﬂows used in investing activities (81.0) (144.4)
Financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital – 0.2
Purchase of own shares (0.2) (2.0)
New/(repayment of) borrowings (12.8) 10.6
Repayment of finance lease obligations (1.0) (0.4)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 (34.4) (33.7)
Dividends paid to minorities in Group subsidiaries (1.9) –
Cash ﬂows used in ﬁnancing activities (50.3) (25.3)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (8.9) (33.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 56.0 81.6
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 7.0 7.9
Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 18 54.1 56.0 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
58 www.dssmith.uk.com
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared and approved
by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the EU (‘adopted IFRSs’). The Company has
elected to prepare its parent Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance
with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 101 to 106.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling in millions,
rounded to one decimal place, unless otherwise indicated. They are
prepared on the historical cost basis except that assets and liabilities
of certain ﬁnancial instruments, deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans and
share-based payments are stated at their fair value.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going
concern basis as set out on page 40 of the Corporate Governance section.
The preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires management
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect whether and
how policies are applied and affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, income and expenses. Judgements made by management in the
application of adopted IFRSs that have a signiﬁcant effect on the ﬁnancial
statements and estimates with a signiﬁcant risk of material adjustment in
the next year are discussed in accounting policy (u).
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently
to all periods presented in these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The
accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences until the date
that control ceases. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and
losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions,
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(ii) Associates
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s share of the
total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted
basis, from the date that signiﬁcant inﬂuence commences until the date
that signiﬁcant inﬂuence ceases.
(iii) Joint ventures
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s proportionate
share of its joint ventures’ assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses with
items of a similar nature on a line-by-line basis, from the date that joint
control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
(iv) Minority interests
The share of proﬁt attributable to minority interests is shown as a component
of proﬁt for the period in the income statement and minority interests are
shown as a component of equity in the balance sheet net of the value of
options over interests held by minorities in the Group’s subsidiaries.
(c) Revenue
Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, net
of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales
within the Group. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the
income statement when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership
have been transferred to the buyer.
(d) Government grants
(i) Emission quotas
The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Emission quotas received in a period are initially recognised at a nominal
value of nil. As a result, no asset or liability is recognised on the balance
sheet at initial recognition. A provision is recognised if there is any
anticipated shortfall in the level of quotas received or purchased when
compared with actual emissions in any given period, measured at the
market price of such quotas at the balance sheet date. Excess emission
quotas acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as
an intangible asset at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
(ii) Other
Other government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially
as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that they will
be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching
to them. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are
offset against the expenses in the same periods in which the expenses
are incurred.
(e) Dividends
Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company declared
during the year are recognised directly in equity.
(f) Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the foreign
exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet
date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling
at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of
monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rates at the dates of the transactions.
The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a functional
currency other than sterling are translated at the closing exchange rate
at the date of the balance sheet. Income and expenses for each income
statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average
is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates
prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses
are translated at the date of the transactions). On consolidation, exchange
differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign
entities, and of borrowings, and other ﬁnancial instruments designated
as hedges of such investments, are recognised in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign currency entities, the cumulative exchange
difference recorded in the translation reserve is taken to the income
statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
(g) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase
method. Goodwill (positive and negative) arising on the acquisition of
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, represents the difference
between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identiﬁable
assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses (refer to
accounting policy (i)). The useful life of goodwill is considered to be
indeﬁnite. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested
annually for impairment. Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 59
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining
new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in
the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research ﬁndings are
applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process
is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufﬁcient
resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes
the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of
overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income
statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure
is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment
losses (refer to accounting policy (i)).
(iii) Computer software
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included
within tangible ﬁxed assets. All other computer software is treated as an
intangible asset.
(iv) Intellectual property
Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation
(see below) and impairment losses (refer to accounting policy (i)).
(v) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost
less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (refer
to accounting policy (i)).
(vi) Amortisation
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding goodwill) is charged to the
income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives
of intangible assets unless such lives are indeﬁnite. Intangible assets
(other than goodwill) are amortised from the date they are available
for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Intellectual property Up to 20 years
Computer software 3 – 5 years
Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date,
and when there is an indication for impairment.
(h) Property, plant and equipment and other investments
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (refer to accounting policy
(i)). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct
labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. Where an
item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property,
plant and equipment.
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant
and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is
incurred if it is probable that the future economic beneﬁts embodied within
the item will ﬂow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured
reliably. All other costs are recognised in the income statement as an
expense as incurred.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant and equipment,
and major components that are accounted for separately (or in the case
of leased assets, the lease period, if shorter). Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10 – 50 years
Plant, machinery, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings (including IT hardware) 3 – 20 years
Motor vehicles 3 – 5 years
Other investments consist of available for sale investments in unquoted
equity and debt securities and are carried at cost, less any impairment.
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, including tangible and
intangible non-current assets, other than inventories (refer to accounting
policy (l)) and deferred tax assets (refer to accounting policy (t)), are
reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is
any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s
recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised
whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit
exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in
the income statement.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s assets is calculated as the
value-in-use, being the present value of expected future cash ﬂows, using
a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects the current assessment of the time value
of money, or the net selling price, if greater. For an asset that does not
generate largely independent cash inﬂows, the recoverable amount is
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairment
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. In respect of
other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment
loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of
depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(j) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments, primarily interest rate,
currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities
and the ﬁnancing of these activities. The Group has a policy not to, and
does not, undertake any speculative activity in these instruments.
Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on
the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value
is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are accounted for as hedges when
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the
ﬁnancial instruments provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk.
Any gains or losses arising from the hedging instruments are offset
against the hedged items.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as:
– fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair
value of a recognised asset or liability;
– cash ﬂow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ﬂows
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with either
a balance sheet item or a highly probable forecast transaction; or
– hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
60 www.dssmith.uk.com
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other
derivatives are taken to the income statement. These may arise from
derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they
are not effective as hedging instruments.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives
designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging
relationship as follows:
Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted
for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged; the derivative is
remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both are taken to the
income statement. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting
if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group
revokes the designation.
Cash ﬂow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging
instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion
is recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to equity are
transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects
proﬁt or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where
the hedged item is the cost of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, the
amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount
of the non-ﬁnancial asset or liability.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without
replacement or rollover, the hedged transaction ceases to be highly
probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously
recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs
and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount
of a non-ﬁnancial asset liability as above. If a forecast transaction is no
longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are
transferred to the income statement.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion of the gain
or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the
ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to
equity are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
The net present value of the expected future payments under options over
interests held by minorities in the Group’s subsidiaries are shown as a
ﬁnancial liability. At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is
reassessed with any changes recognised in the proﬁt or loss for the period.
(k) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment
provisions (refer to accounting policy (i)).
(l) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the ﬁrst-in ﬁrst-out principle and
includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing
them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes
an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
(m) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part
of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash
and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ﬂows.
(n) Treasury shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of
the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised
as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classiﬁed as treasury
shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
(o) Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction
costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are
stated at amortised cost with borrowing costs being accounted for on an
accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
At the balance sheet date, accrued interest is recorded separately from the
associated borrowings within current liabilities.
(p) Employee beneﬁts
(i) Deﬁned contribution schemes
Contributions to deﬁned contribution pension schemes are recognised
as an expense in the income statement as personnel expense, as incurred.
(ii) Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of
future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the
current and prior periods; that beneﬁt is discounted to its present value
amount and recognised in the income statement as personnel expense;
a corresponding liability for all future beneﬁts is established on the
balance sheet and the fair value of any schemes’ assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit
rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration of
the schemes’ obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualiﬁed
actuary using the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement
of recognised income and expense.
(iii) Long-term service beneﬁts
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service beneﬁts, other
than pension plans, is the amount of future beneﬁt that employees have
earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the
grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The fair value of the
options granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into
account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined
by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact
of any non-market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are
included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected
to become exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises
its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become
exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates,
if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs
are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when
the options are exercised.
(q) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event,
and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required
to settle the obligation and are discounted to present value where the
effect is material.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
(j) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 61
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
(r) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
(s) Leases
Property, plant and equipment acquired under a lease that transfers
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are
capitalised as tangible ﬁxed assets. Lease payments are apportioned
between the ﬁnance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The ﬁnance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term
so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(t) Taxation
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and deferred
tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent
that it relates to items recognised directly to equity, in which case it is
recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year,
using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to
tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability method,
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amounts
used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not
provided for: goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that
affect neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt and differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse
in the foreseeable future and the Group is able to control the reversal of
such temporary differences. The amount of deferred tax provided is based
on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted
at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the asset can
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax beneﬁt will be realised.
(u) Critical accounting policies
The application of the Group’s accounting policies requires the
management of DS Smith Plc to make estimates and assumptions; these
estimates and assumptions affect the reported assets and liabilities and
ﬁnancial results of the Group. Actual outcomes could differ from the
estimates and assumptions used.
The Group’s accounting policies that are most critical to an understanding
of the results and position of the Group, and the judgements involved in
their application, are as follows:
(i) Impairments
When applying IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’, the Group compares the
carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with the higher of their net
realisable value and value-in-use to determine whether an impairment exists.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the cash ﬂows expected to be
generated by the asset/group of assets being tested for evidence of
impairment. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgements,
in particular those involved in (a) determining a value based on our current
expectations of future conditions and the associated cash ﬂows from the
Group’s operations, (b) our determination of the level at which groups of
assets can be reasonably tested for impairment separately from other parts
of the business and (c) our treatment of centrally held assets, could each
result in materially different carrying values of assets and assessments
of impairment. See note 10 of the Notes to the ﬁnancial statements for
additional information regarding the Group’s annual impairment exercise.
(ii) Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁts
IAS 19, ‘Employee Beneﬁts’, requires the Group to make assumptions
including, but not limited to, future asset returns, rates of inﬂation,
discount rates and life expectancies. The use of different assumptions,
in any of the above calculations, could have a material effect on the
accounting values of the relevant balance sheet assets and liabilities
which could also result in a change to the cost of such liabilities as
recognised in the income statement over time. These assumptions are
subject to periodic review. See note 24 of the Notes to the ﬁnancial
statements for additional information regarding the Group’s pension
and other post-retirement beneﬁts.
(iii) Accounting for carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions
There are currently no accounting standards that speciﬁcally address
accounting for emission allowances. The Group, with the agreement of
its auditors, has applied a ‘net liability’ approach. Under a ‘net liability’
approach, no assets or government grants are recognised when
allowances are initially received. This is because they are ascribed a
nominal value of nil. As allowances granted to the Group are used to
offset the liability from CO
2
emissions, no accounting entries are required
so long as the related emissions generated are within the allowance
received from the government. If such emissions are in excess of the
allowance received (known as a shortfall position) a provision is made
at the current market price for carbon credits. In the case where emission
quotas are acquired through an acquisition, any surplus emission quotas
are fair valued in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. 62 www.dssmith.uk.com
(v) IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
The IASB and IFRIC have issued new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial statements. The Group does
not anticipate that the adoption of those standards and interpretations that are effective for the ﬁnancial year ending 30 April 2009 will have a material
effect on its ﬁnancial statements on initial adoption; the Group is evaluating the effect of those standards and interpretations that are effective subsequently.
The standards and interpretation to be adopted include:
Effective date – financial years ending
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 30 April 2010
Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs 30 April 2010
Revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 30 April 2010
Revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2010
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 – Share-based payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations 30 April 2010
IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Presentation 30 April 2010
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 30 April 2011
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 – Intangible Assets – Eligible Hedged Items 30 April 2010
IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation 30 April 2010
IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate 30 April 2010
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Assets 30 April 2010
Improvements to IFRSs made in May 2008. 30 April 2010
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 30 April 2010
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 30 April 2010
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirement and their Interaction 30 April 2010
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate 30 April 2010
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 30 April 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 63
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
2. SEGMENT REPORTING
Primary reporting format – business segments
Packaging
Continental Ofﬁce
UK Paper and European Products Total
Corrugated Corrugated Plastic Sub-total Wholesaling Group
For the year ended 30 April 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue (sales of goods) 785.8 363.4 236.9 1,386.1 720.5 2,106.6
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
36.5 30.4 7.0 73.9 20.1 94.0
Exceptional items (note 4) (18.2) (24.7) (4.0) (46.9) (3.7) (50.6)
Segment result 18.3 5.7 3.0 27.0 16.4 43.4
Net financing costs (22.1)
Share of loss of associates (4.5)
Proﬁt before income tax 16.8
Income tax expense (28.0)
Loss for the ﬁnancial year attributable to: (11.2)
DS Smith Plc equity shareholders (11.8)
Minority interest 0.6
Balance sheet
Segment assets 687.7 265.4 172.4 1,125.5 259.8 1,385.3
Unallocated items
Investments in associates 2.6
Other non-current assets –
Derivative financial instruments 25.4
Cash and cash equivalents 62.9
Tax balances 74.5
Total assets 1,550.7
Segment liabilities (183.5) (71.7) (49.4) (304.6) (138.2) (442.8)
Unallocated items
Borrowings and accrued interest (355.3)
Derivative financial instruments (24.4)
Tax balances (80.5)
Post-retirement beneﬁts (191.3)
Total liabilities (1,094.3)
Other segment items:
Adjusted return on sales – %
1
4.6% 8.4% 3.0% 5.3% 2.8% 4.5%
Adjusted EBITDA – £m
1
73.2 45.8 19.2 138.2 25.7 163.9
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %
1
9.3% 12.6% 8.1% 10.0% 3.6% 7.8%
Year-end capital employed – £m 504.2 193.7 123.0 820.9 121.6 942.5
Average capital employed – £m
2
545.2 199.6 132.8 877.6 131.9 1,009.5
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %
1, 2
6.7% 15.2% 5.3% 8.4% 15.2% 9.3%
Capital expenditure – £m
3
55.2 18.9 7.1 81.2 2.0 83.2
Depreciation and amortisation – £m 36.7 15.4 12.2 64.3 5.6 69.9
1 before exceptional items
2 average capital employed is defined on page 65
3 capital expenditure represents additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 64 www.dssmith.uk.com
2. SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED
Primary reporting format – business segments continued
Packaging
Continental Ofﬁce
UK Paper and European Products Total
Corrugated Corrugated Plastic Sub-total Wholesaling Group
For the year ended 30 April 2008 £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue (sales of goods) 753.2 346.0 223.4 1,322.6 644.9 1,967.5
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
68.5 20.3 10.7 99.5 20.1 119.6
Exceptional items (note 4) – – (1.9) (1.9) – (1.9)
Segment result 68.5 20.3 8.8 97.6 20.1 117.7
Net financing costs (12.0)
Share of profit of associates 3.4
Proﬁt before income tax 109.1
Income tax expense (30.9)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to: 78.2
DS Smith Plc equity shareholders 76.6
Minority interest 1.6
Balance sheet
Segment assets 713.9 273.8 178.2 1,165.9 251.1 1,417.0
Unallocated items
Investments in associates 30.0
Other non-current assets 2.3
Derivative financial instruments 17.5
Cash and cash equivalents 69.7
Tax balances 33.0
Total assets 1,569.5
Segment liabilities (210.1) (83.8) (58.8) (352.7) (127.5) (480.2)
Unallocated items
Borrowings and accrued interest (288.6)
Derivative financial instruments (42.0)
Tax balances (80.9)
Post-retirement beneﬁts (75.9)
Total liabilities (967.6)
Other segment items:
Adjusted return on sales – %
1
9.1% 5.9% 4.8% 7.5% 3.1% 6.1%
Adjusted EBITDA – £m
1
100.4 33.9 21.2 155.5 26.1 181.6
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %
1
13.3% 9.8% 9.5% 11.8% 4.0% 9.2%
Year-end capital employed – £m 503.8 190.0 119.4 813.2 123.6 936.8
Average capital employed – £m
2
479.4 186.2 126.7 792.3 133.4 925.7
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %
1, 2
14.3% 10.9% 8.4% 12.6% 15.1% 12.9%
Capital expenditure – £m
3
36.6 16.9 11.0 64.5 4.1 68.6
Depreciation and amortisation – £m 31.9 13.6 10.5 56.0 6.0 62.0
1 before exceptional items
2 average capital employed is defined on page 65
3 capital expenditure represents additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 65
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
2. SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED
The Group’s primary format for segment reporting is business segments based on the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. The
secondary format is geographical segments showing the geographical origin of the Group’s activity and net assets. Further details on these business
segments are given in the Business Review on pages 1 to 35. The Group operates in two principal geographical areas: the UK and Western Continental
Europe. Two further segments are identiﬁed: Eastern Continental Europe and the Rest of the World. Segment results include items directly attributable
to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Central administration costs are allocated to the individual segments on
a consistent basis year-on-year. Assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment at a capital employed level. Capital employed excludes items
of a ﬁnancing nature, taxation balances, post-retirement beneﬁt liabilities and non-current asset investments; segmental capital employed comprises
identiﬁable segment assets less segmental liabilities. Average capital employed is the average monthly capital employed. The adjusted return on
average capital employed is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before exceptional items divided by average capital employed.
Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
Revenue Segment assets Capital expenditure
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Year ending 30 April £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK 1,147.6 1,097.1 833.1 860.9 57.2 41.4
Western Continental Europe 779.2 708.1 438.7 422.3 17.8 18.1
Eastern Continental Europe 113.0 104.4 73.6 85.7 5.5 6.3
Rest of the World 66.8 57.9 39.9 48.1 2.7 2.8
2,106.6 1,967.5 1,385.3 1,417.0 83.2 68.6
3. OPERATING PROFIT
2009 2008
£m £m
Operating expenses
Distribution expenses 220.0 207.5
Administrative expenses 238.8 173.6
458.8 381.1
Details of exceptional items recorded within operating proﬁt are set out in note 4.
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging/(crediting) the following:
2009 2008
£m £m
Depreciation – owned assets 65.5 57.9
– leased assets 0.9 0.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 3.5 3.5
Hire of plant and machinery 12.3 12.5
Other operating lease rentals 11.9 12.8
Research and development 1.2 1.1
Gains on the sale of land and buildings (1.2) (1.1)
Amounts paid to Deloitte LLP 1.3 1.1 66 www.dssmith.uk.com
3. OPERATING PROFIT CONTINUED
2009 2008
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Auditors’ remuneration £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the
Company’s annual accounts 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.6 1.0 0.4 0.5 0.9
Tax and other services 0.1 – 0.1 –– –
0.7 0.6 1.3 0.6 0.5 1.1
Total non-audit fees relating to tax and other services are £0.1m.
4. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Items are presented as ‘exceptional’ in the ﬁnancial statements where they are signiﬁcant items of ﬁnancial performance that the Directors consider
should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and ﬁnancial results achieved by the Group.
2009 2008
£m £m
Restructuring costs
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging (18.2) –
Continental European Corrugated Packaging (1.6) –
Plastic Packaging (3.5) (1.9)
Office Products Wholesaling (3.7) –
Total restructuring costs (27.0) (1.9)
Impairment of associate (18.1) –
Other impairments (5.5) –
Total exceptional items recognised in operating (loss)/profit (50.6) (1.9)
Group’s share of exceptional losses on associate (5.1) –
Total pre-tax exceptional items (55.7) (1.9)
Deferred tax charge following amendment to UK Industrial Building Allowance regime (13.3) –
Income tax credit on exceptional items 7.9 0.7
Total exceptional tax items (5.4) 0.7
Total post-tax exceptional items (61.1) (1.2)
2008/09
The UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging restructuring of £18.2m relates to the costs of restructuring the Group’s paper-making and corrugated
packaging facilities across the UK. This includes the cost of restructuring following the conversion of the New Thames Mill.
The Continental European Corrugated Packaging restructuring costs of £1.6m relate to restructuring of corrugated packaging facilities in France.
The Plastic Packaging restructuring costs of £3.5m relate to the closure of the Rugby ofﬁce and related restructurings.
The Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling restructuring costs of £3.7m relate to restructuring costs of Spicers UK, including the closure of the ofﬁce
furniture business.
Included within total restructuring costs for the year of £27.0m are ﬁxed asset impairments of £0.6m.
Impairment of associate is in respect of the write down of the Group’s investment in Rubezhansk (note 12).
Other impairments include a £5.0m impairment of the ﬁxed assets in the Group’s subsidiary in Turkey (Continental European Corrugated
Packaging), and £0.5m impairment of an option to acquire a 20% holding in an Italian plastic packaging business.
The Group has recognised a £5.1m exceptional loss in respect of the Group’s share of losses incurred by Rubezhansk, the Group’s associate
in Ukraine.
The exceptional tax of £(5.4)m includes a deferred tax charge of £13.3m following amendment to the UK Industrial Building Allowance regime.
This is partially offset by £7.9m of income tax credits on the restructuring costs.
2007/08
The exceptional charge of £1.9m is recorded within administrative expenses and relates to the continued restructuring of our European liquid
packaging and dispensing operations within Plastic Packaging.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 67
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
5. FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
2009 2008
£m £m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 23.7 19.4
Finance lease interest 0.3 0.3
Other 2.1 4.4
Finance costs 26.1 24.1
Interest income from financial assets held at amortised cost (1.7) (2.7)
Other (0.8) (0.6)
Finance income (2.5) (3.3)
Other finance costs largely relate to the increase in the fair value of the non-controlling shareholders’ put options in Toscana Ondulati SpA
(see note 23).
Included within other finance income is £0.6m (2007/08: cost of £0.3m) of hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges and fair value
hedges. Refer to note 20(c) for further details of cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges.
6. PERSONNEL EXPENSES
2009 2008
£m £m
Wages and salaries 318.6 288.3
Social security costs 49.9 44.6
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 2.9 3.3
Service costs for defined benefit schemes (see note 24) 11.7 9.8
Share-based payment expense (see note 25) 0.3 2.1
Personnel expenses 383.4 348.1
The average number of employees (full-time equivalents) during the ﬁnancial year, analysed by geographical region was:
2009 2008
Number Number
UK 6,913 6,755
Western Continental Europe 3,173 3,075
Eastern Continental Europe 1,120 1,008
Rest of the World 504 511
Average number of employees 11,710 11,349 68 www.dssmith.uk.com
7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense recognised in the income statement
2009 2008
£m £m
Current tax expense
Current year (21.0) (29.9)
Over-provided in prior years – 0.1
(21.0) (29.8)
Deferred tax (expense)/credit
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.9 (3.0)
Reduction in UK tax rate from 30% to 28% – 2.4
Abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances (13.3) –
(Under-)/over-provided in prior years 0.4 (0.5)
(7.0) (1.1)
Total income tax expense in the income statement (28.0) (30.9)
The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit before tax 16.8 109.1
Add/(Less): share of loss/(profit) of associates 4.5 (3.4)
Profit before tax and share of profit of associates 21.3 105.7
Income tax calculated using the domestic corporation tax rate of 28.0% (2007/08: 29.8%) (6.0) (31.5)
Effect of tax rates in overseas jurisdictions (2.7) (1.2)
Non-deductible expenses (5.7) (2.2)
Origination of tax losses not recognised (2.0) (0.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.4 0.4
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate – 2.4
Abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances (13.3) –
Other 1.3 1.4
Income tax expense (28.0) (30.9)
2009 2008
£m £m
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
Relating to post-retirement benefits 34.9 21.4
Other 18.4 (3.0)
53.3 18.4
Current tax recognised directly in equity
Relating to post-retirement benefits – (0.7)
Tax relating to hedging transactions taken directly to reserves – 7.4
– 6.7
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 69
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
8. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 30 April 2009 is based on the net (loss)/proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of £(11.8)m
(2007/08: £76.6m) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 April 2009 of 390.9m
(2007/08: 391.5m). The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Company’s own shares held as treasury shares during
the year of 2.4m (2007/08: 1.9m).
2009 2008
Net (loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (£m) £(11.8)m £76.6m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 April (millions) 390.9m 391.5m
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence per share) (3.0)p 19.6p
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 30 April 2009 is based on net (loss)/proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of £(11.8)m
(2007/08: £76.6m) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 April 2009, as adjusted for
potentially issuable ordinary shares, of 392.5m (2007/08: 393.9m), calculated as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Net (loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (11.8) 76.6
In millions of shares 2009 2008
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 April 390.9 391.5
Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 1.6 2.4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) at 30 April 392.5 393.9
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence per share) (3.0)p 19.4p
Adjusted earnings per share
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share amount, being the basic (loss)/earnings per share adjusted for
exceptional items, helps to explain the underlying performance of the Group. A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is as follows:
2009 2008
Basic – Diluted – Basic – Diluted –
pence pence pence pence
£m per share per share £m per share per share
Basic (loss)/earnings (11.8) (3.0)p (3.0)p 76.6 19.6p 19.4p
Add back/(deduct) exceptional items, after tax 61.1 15.6p 15.6p 1.2 0.3p 0.4p
Adjusted earnings 49.3 12.6p 12.6p 77.8 19.9p 19.8p
9. DIVIDENDS
Dividends proposed and paid by the Group are as follows:
2009 2008
Pence Pence
per share £m per share £m
Interim dividend – paid 2.6p 10.2 2.6p 10.2
Final dividend – proposed 1.8p 7.0 6.2p 24.4
4.4p 17.2 8.8p 34.6
2009 2008
£m £m
Paid during the year 34.4 33.7
A ﬁnal dividend in respect of 2008/09 of 1.8 pence per share (£7.0m) has been proposed by the Directors after the balance sheet date. 70 www.dssmith.uk.com
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intellectual
Goodwill Software property Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2008 207.0 34.7 12.9 9.1 263.7
Acquisitions through business combinations 0.2 – – 1.7 1.9
Additions 0.1 1.6 – 1.5 3.2
Disposals – (1.5) – (1.7) (3.2)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 7.1 1.6 0.2 0.4 9.3
Balance at 30 April 2009 214.4 36.4 13.1 11.0 274.9
Amortisation
Balance at 1 May 2008 (14.1) (29.8) (4.3) (0.3) (48.5)
Amortisation for the year – (2.2) (0.7) (0.6) (3.5)
Disposals – 1.4 – – 1.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.0) (1.3) – – (2.3)
Balance at 30 April 2009 (15.1) (31.9) (5.0) (0.9) (52.9)
Carrying amount
Balance as at 1 May 2008 192.9 4.9 8.6 8.8 215.2
Balance as at 30 April 2009 199.3 4.5 8.1 10.1 222.0
Intellectual
Goodwill Software property Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2007 191.7 32.3 12.6 0.8 237.4
Acquisitions through business combinations 10.2 0.1 – 7.7 18.0
Additions – 2.3 – 0.6 2.9
Disposals – (1.4) – (0.1) (1.5)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 5.1 1.4 0.3 0.1 6.9
Balance at 30 April 2008 207.0 34.7 12.9 9.1 263.7
Amortisation
Balance at 1 May 2007 (13.6) (27.2) (3.6) (0.1) (44.5)
Amortisation for the year – (2.7) (0.7) (0.1) (3.5)
Disposals – 1.4 – – 1.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.5) (1.3) – (0.1) (1.9)
Balance at 30 April 2008 (14.1) (29.8) (4.3) (0.3) (48.5)
Carrying amount
Balance as at 1 May 2007 178.1 5.1 9.0 0.7 192.9
Balance as at 30 April 2008 192.9 4.9 8.6 8.8 215.2
The amortisation charge for the year of £3.5m (2007/08: £3.5m) is included within administrative expenses. The other items above include acquired
emissions quotas which are capitalised as an asset when granted to the Group and treated as a disposal when used to satisfy the Group’s obligations
or sold, as explained in note 1.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 71
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill
The following segments have cash-generating units containing signiﬁcant carrying amounts of goodwill:
2009 2008
£m £m
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 144.3 144.2
Plastic Packaging 39.1 34.8
183.4 179.0
Segments with no cash-generating units containing individually significant goodwill 15.9 13.9
199.3 192.9
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable
amounts of the cash-generating units (‘CGU’) are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculation were:
• cash forecasts derived from the latest budgets and forecasts for the two years ending 30 April 2011 as approved by the Directors. Cash ﬂows
for the following three years were extrapolated assuming a progressive recovery in margins to historical levels;
• the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) for the Group is 11.8% (2007/08: 10.6%). The Group believes that the risk proﬁle across
the signiﬁcant markets in which it operates are not signiﬁcantly different, hence the same WACC is universally applied across all CGUs; and
• long-term growth rates are either equal to or less than, the inﬂation assumption.
The outcome of the impairment task for the CGUs containing signiﬁcant carrying amounts of goodwill is summarised as follows:
Headroom £m
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 47.6
Plastic Packaging 55.3
The headroom represents the difference between the calculated value-in-use and the net asset carrying value of the CGU.
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible an impairment would be identiﬁed if any of the above key assumptions
were changed signiﬁcantly. For instance, factors which could cause impairment are:
• signiﬁcant underperformance relative to the forecast results;
• changes to the way the assets are used or our strategy for the business;
• a further deterioration in the industry or the wider economy; and
• an increase in the Group’s WACC.
The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash ﬂows. The Directors believe the assumptions used are appropriate, but in addition
have conducted sensitivity analysis to determine the changes in assumptions that would result in an impairment.
A half percentage point increase in the WACC to 12.3% would result in a reduction in the headroom for UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
reducing to circa £20m. The headroom for Plastic Packaging would similarly reduce to circa £45m.
In order for there to be no impairments within UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging adjusted operating proﬁts will need to achieve circa £56m
in 2014/15; this compares to £68.5m in 2007/08 and £36.5m in 2008/09. For there to be no impairments within Plastic Packaging, adjusted
operating proﬁts will need to achieve circa £16.0m in 2014/15, which compares to £10.7m in 2007/08 and £7.0m in 2008/09. The assumptions
underpinning UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging adjusted operating proﬁts reﬂect managements’ expectations of a return to historic levels of
margins and proﬁtability by 2014/15. The beneﬁts of the restructuring of the Plastic Packaging segment are forecast to deliver the incremental proﬁt
growth over the next ﬁve years. 72 www.dssmith.uk.com
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land Plant Fixtures
and and and Under
buildings equipment ﬁttings construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2008 321.8 1,078.1 63.1 21.9 1,484.9
Acquisitions through business combinations – 0.2 – – 0.2
Additions 3.5 71.2 1.3 5.0 81.0
Disposals (2.8) (51.6) (2.6) (0.5) (57.5)
Transfers 0.3 7.0 (0.3) (7.0) –
Reclassification from inventory – 2.4 0.8 0.2 3.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 11.8 41.5 4.1 1.3 58.7
Balance at 30 April 2009 334.6 1,148.8 66.4 20.9 1,570.7
Depreciation
Balance at 1 May 2008 (82.3) (743.9) (51.6) – (877.8)
Depreciation charge for the year (7.4) (55.9) (3.2) 0.1 (66.4)
Impairments – (5.6) – – (5.6)
Disposals 3.5 48.3 2.4 – 54.2
Reclassification from inventory – (1.2) (0.2) (0.1) (1.5)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (4.0) (29.3) (3.2) – (36.5)
Balance at 30 April 2009 (90.2) (787.6) (55.8) – (933.6)
Carrying amount
Balance as at 1 May 2008 239.5 334.2 11.5 21.9 607.1
Balance as at 30 April 2009 244.4 361.2 10.6 20.9 637.1
In 2008/09, capital spares with a net book value of £1.9m have been reclassiﬁed from inventory to property, plant and equipment in accordance
with the Group accounting policy.
Leased property, plant and equipment
The amounts above include land and buildings held under ﬁnance lease agreements. At 30 April 2009, the carrying amount of land and buildings
held under ﬁnance leases was £6.9m (2008: £6.9m).
Property, plant and equipment under construction
Assets under construction mainly related to production machines being built for various sites across the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 73
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
Land Plant Fixtures
and and and Under
buildings equipment fittings construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2007 261.5 972.2 62.2 23.0 1,318.9
Acquisitions through business combinations 39.2 24.8 – 0.3 64.3
Additions 6.5 45.6 2.8 10.8 65.7
Disposals (2.3) (18.0) (5.7) – (26.0)
Transfers 2.7 4.9 0.3 (7.9) –
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to other receivables – – – (5.8) (5.8)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 14.2 48.6 3.5 1.5 67.8
Balance at 30 April 2008 321.8 1,078.1 63.1 21.9 1,484.9
Depreciation
Balance at 1 May 2007 (72.9) (677.8) (51.1) – (801.8)
Depreciation charge for the year (5.8) (49.3) (3.4) – (58.5)
Disposals 0.4 15.0 5.5 – 20.9
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (4.0) (31.8) (2.6) – (38.4)
Balance at 30 April 2008 (82.3) (743.9) (51.6) – (877.8)
Carrying amount
Balance as at 1 May 2007 188.6 294.4 11.1 23.0 517.1
Balance as at 30 April 2008 239.5 334.2 11.5 21.9 607.1 74 www.dssmith.uk.com
12. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES
2009 2008
£m £m
Balance at 1 May 30.0 30.5
Share of profit of associates after interest and tax, including exceptional loss of £5.1m (2007/08: £nil) (4.5) 3.4
Dividends received – (1.0)
Additions – –
Disposals – (0.9)
Intra-group profit elimination (0.4) (2.8)
Impairment (18.1) –
Exchange differences (6.7) 0.8
Balance at 30 April 0.3 30.0
Nature of business Principal country of operation Financial year-end Ownership 2009
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Manufacturer of paper Ukraine 31 December 49.6%
Packaging Mill (Rubezhansk) and packaging
Rubezhansk is accounted for using the equity method within these ﬁnancial statements.
Included within the share of proﬁt of associates after interest and tax is an exceptional loss of £5.1m being the Group’s share of the after-tax net loss at
Rubezhansk incurred in the second half of 2008/09. This is principally as a result of foreign exchange losses on the US$87 million loan, following the
signiﬁcant decline in the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US$. Exchange rate movements have resulted in Rubezhansk breaching its banking covenants.
Consequently, due to the uncertainty of the ﬁnancial position of Rubezhansk, the Group has fully impaired the carrying value of its investment in that
associate at the year-end.
Summary of ﬁnancial information in associate – 49.6%
2009 2008
£m £m
Rubezhansk
Assets 116.1 98.2
Liabilities (71.8) (32.4)
Revenues 82.8 58.8
(Loss)/profit after tax (9.5) 6.7
The remaining £0.3m investment in associates relates to the Group’s investment in Wirth, a plastic packaging business in Germany.
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS
2009 2008
£m £m
Non-current investments 0.8 1.5
Current investments 0.5 0.1
Non-current investments comprise investments in the equity and debt securities of unlisted companies.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 75
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
14. INVENTORIES
2009 2008
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 54.0 67.7
Work in progress 3.2 4.2
Finished goods 113.0 115.8
170.2 187.7
The Group consumed £1,604.4m (2008: £1,468.7m) of inventories during the year. Provisions against inventories totalled £20.2m (30 April 2008: £19.5m).
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2009 2008
Non-current Current Non-current Current
£m £m £m £m
Trade receivables and provisions
Trade receivables – 346.4 – 375.5
Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables – (21.7) – (13.7)
Prepayments and other receivables 0.9 31.4 0.8 45.1
0.9 356.1 0.8 406.9
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of trade receivables from the date credit
was initially granted up to the reporting date. The fair value of trade and other receivables is not materially different from their carrying amounts
above. Refer to note 20(d)(iii) for further quantitative and qualitative analysis of credit risk.
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2009 2008
Non-current Current Non-current Current
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables – 288.8 – 321.1
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 3.8 123.3 4.0 133.9
3.8 412.1 4.0 455.0
The fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from their carrying amounts shown above. 76 www.dssmith.uk.com
17. NET DEBT
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Non-current liabilities 19 331.5 260.7
Current liabilities 19 5.8 6.4
Derivative financial instruments 20 8.3 40.7
Net cash and cash equivalents 18 (54.1) (56.0)
Net debt 291.5 251.8
Net debt divided by EBITDA (before exceptional items) 1.8x 1.4x
Gearing (net debt expressed as a percentage of net assets) 63.9% 41.8%
The movement in Group net debt is as set out in the table below:
Foreign
exchange
At Acquisitions and At
1 May and fair value 30 April
2008 Cash ﬂow disposals movements 2009
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 69.7 (16.9) – 10.1 62.9
Overdrafts (13.7) 8.0 – (3.1) (8.8)
Net cash and cash equivalents 56.0 (8.9) – 7.0 54.1
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year (255.3) 12.2 – (83.1) (326.2)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year (5.5) 0.6 – – (4.9)
Finance leases (6.3) 1.1 (0.2) (0.8) (6.2)
Derivative financial instruments
– assets 0.4 – – 10.6 11.0
– liabilities (41.1) – – 21.8 (19.3)
(307.8) 13.9 (0.2) (51.5) (345.6)
Total net debt (251.8) 5.0 (0.2) (44.5) (291.5)
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2009 2008
£m £m
Bank balances 55.4 63.2
Short-term deposits 7.5 6.5
Cash and cash equivalents (per balance sheet) 62.9 69.7
Bank overdrafts (8.8) (13.7)
Net cash and cash equivalents (per cash ﬂow statement) 54.1 56.0
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 77
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
19. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the
Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, refer to note 20.
2009 2008
Current Non-current Current Non-current
£m £m £m £m
Borrowings measured at amortised cost
Bank and other loans 4.9 80.2 5.5 71.3
Note purchase agreements – 50.6 – 37.9
Finance lease liabilities 0.9 5.3 0.9 5.4
5.8 136.1 6.4 114.6
Borrowings in a fair value hedge relationship
Note purchase agreements – 195.4 – 146.1
5.8 331.5 6.4 260.7
Bank loans, other loans and overdrafts of certain subsidiaries totalling £3.4m (2008: £3.6m) are secured over the properties and machinery of these
companies. The holder of the security does not have the right to sell or re-pledge the assets as security.
The repayment dates of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
2009
1 year 1–2 2–5 More than
or less years years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fixed-rate 0.4 0.2 67.1 50.8 118.5
Floating-rate 5.4 1.6 115.8 96.0 218.8
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 5.8 1.8 182.9 146.8 337.3
2008
1 year 1–2 2–5 More than
or less years years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fixed-rate 5.0 0.6 – 38.0 43.6
Floating-rate 1.4 1.3 150.7 70.1 223.5
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6.4 1.9 150.7 108.1 267.1 78 www.dssmith.uk.com
19. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED
The Group’s borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps, are denominated in the following
currencies:
Sterling Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2009
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fixed-rate 51.1 67.4 – – 118.5
Floating-rate 26.8 153.1 35.1 3.8 218.8
77.9 220.5 35.1 3.8 337.3
Net cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts)
Fixed-rate – (9.9) (2.9) (4.3) (17.1)
Floating-rate (10.7) (15.7) (2.4) (8.2) (37.0)
(10.7) (25.6) (5.3) (12.5) (54.1)
Net borrowings/(cash) at 30 April 2009 67.2 194.9 29.8 (8.7) 283.2
Sterling Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2008
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fixed-rate 38.6 0.6 – 4.4 43.6
Floating-rate 24.1 173.8 25.6 – 223.5
62.7 174.4 25.6 4.4 267.1
Net cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts)
Fixed-rate (0.1) (8.3) (5.4) (1.0) (14.8)
Floating-rate (8.5) (12.8) (1.0) (18.9) (41.2)
(8.6) (21.1) (6.4) (19.9) (56.0)
Net borrowings/(cash) at 30 April 2008 54.1 153.3 19.2 (15.5) 211.1
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 79
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
19. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Expiring within one year 78.8 6.5
Expiring between one and two years 8.9 76.8
Expiring between two and five years 208.0 181.8
295.7 265.1
At 30 April 2009, 69% (30 April 2008: 72%) of the Group’s net borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were
denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Group’s relevant continental European operations. Interest rates on ﬂoating-rate
borrowings are based on LIBOR, EURIBOR or base rates.
In August 2008, the Group entered into a syndicated revolving credit facility of £287.5m, which expires on 29 August 2013. In April 2008, the
Group entered into a revolving credit facility of £50m, which expires on 30 April 2010. Advances drawn down under both facilities bear interest
at a margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR.
In November 2002, the Group entered into a note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of DS Smith Plc’s
6.24% senior notes and £25m of 6.85% senior notes, which will mature on 14 November 2012. The Group entered into a swap transaction with
a bank counterparty under which it made a payment of US$80m in return for €81.6m. The swap counterparty also agreed to pay ﬁxed-rate dollar
interest of 6.24% per annum in exchange for ﬂoating euro rate interest at rates linked to EURIBOR. In addition, swap counterparties also agreed to
pay ﬁxed-rate dollar interest of 6.24% per annum on a principal amount of US$25m in exchange for ﬂoating dollar interest linked to dollar LIBOR
and ﬁxed-rate sterling interest of 6.85% per annum on a principal of £25m in exchange for ﬂoating sterling interest linked to sterling LIBOR.
In August 2004, the Group entered into a further note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of DS Smith Plc’s
5.66% senior notes and US$95m of 5.80% senior notes, which will mature on 25 August 2014 and 25 August 2016, respectively. The Group
entered into swap transactions with a bank counterparty under which it made payments of US$105m and US$20m in return for €86.5m and
€16.5m, respectively, and a payment of US$75m in return for £40.8m. The swap counterparty agreed to pay ﬁxed-rate dollar interest of 5.66%
per annum and 5.80% per annum, respectively, in exchange for ﬂoating euro rate interest at rates linked to EURIBOR and ﬁxed-rate dollar interest
of 5.80% per annum in exchange for ﬁxed-rate sterling interest at rates of 6.21% per annum.
Finance lease obligations
2009 2008
Minimum Minimum
lease lease
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 1.0 (0.1) 0.9 1.2 (0.3) 0.9
Between one and five years 2.8 (0.7) 2.1 2.9 (0.8) 2.1
More than five years 3.5 (0.3) 3.2 3.8 (0.5) 3.3
Finance lease obligations 7.3 (1.1) 6.2 7.9 (1.6) 6.3 80 www.dssmith.uk.com
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives. A
summary of the Group’s key ﬁnancial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and Risk
Management sections of the Business Review on pages 22 to 29.
The derivative ﬁnancial instruments set out in this note have been entered into to help achieve the Group’s risk management objectives.
The Group’s treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions.
a) Carrying amounts of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
Set out below is the accounting classiﬁcation of all of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments and their carrying values.
2009
Financial
Available liabilities
for sale Derivative measured at Total
Loans and ﬁnancial hedging amortised carrying
receivables assets instruments cost amount
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Other investments – 1.3 – – 1.3
Trade and other receivables 357.0 – – – 357.0
Other financial assets in designated hedge accounting relationships – – 25.4 – 25.4
Cash and cash equivalents 62.9 – – – 62.9
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables – – – (415.9) (415.9)
Other financial liabilities in designated hedge accounting relationships – – (24.4) – (24.4)
Loans and borrowings – – – (337.3) (337.3)
Overdrafts – – – (8.8) (8.8)
419.9 1.3 1.0 (762.0) (339.8)
2008
Financial
Available liabilities
for sale Derivative measured at Total
Loans and ﬁnancial hedging amortised carrying
receivables assets instruments cost amount
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Other investments – 1.6 – – 1.6
Trade and other receivables 407.7 – – – 407.7
Other financial assets in designated hedge accounting relationships – – 17.5 – 17.5
Cash and cash equivalents 69.7 – – – 69.7
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables – – – (459.0) (459.0)
Other financial liabilities in designated hedge accounting relationships – – (42.0) – (42.0)
Loans and borrowings – – – (267.1) (267.1)
Overdrafts – – – (13.7) (13.7)
477.4 1.6 (24.5) (739.8) (285.3)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 81
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
b) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments, primarily interest rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities and the ﬁnancing of these activities. All derivatives have been designated
as effective hedging instruments and are carried at their fair value.
The assets and liabilities of the Group as at 30 April in respect of derivative ﬁnancial instruments are as follows:
Assets Liabilities Net
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivatives held to
Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on
borrowings and net investments 11.0 0.4 (19.3) (41.1) (8.3) (40.7)
Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 11.0 0.4 (19.3) (41.1) (8.3) (40.7)
Derivatives held to
Hedge future transactions – energy costs 11.2 17.1 (4.5) (0.2) 6.7 16.9
Hedge future transactions – foreign exchange on purchases
and sales of goods and services 3.2 – (0.6) (0.7) 2.6 (0.7)
Total derivative financial instruments 25.4 17.5 (24.4) (42.0) 1.0 (24.5)
Current 11.7 7.3 (0.7) (0.8) 11.0 6.5
Non-current 13.7 10.2 (23.7) (41.2) (10.0) (31.0)
25.4 17.5 (24.4) (42.0) 1.0 (24.5) 82 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
c) Cash ﬂow, fair value and net investment hedges
(i) Cash ﬂow hedging reserve movements
The following table identiﬁes the movements in the cash ﬂow hedging reserve during the year. All ﬁgures are post-tax.
2009 2008
£m £m
Balance at 1 May 13.0 (1.5)
Unrealised fair value gain/(loss) on designated cash flow hedges
Forward exchange contracts 1.6 (0.4)
Cross-currency and interest rate swaps (4.6) 1.5
Commodity contracts (2.3) 13.0
Losses/(gains) in equity recycled to the income statement*
Forward exchange contracts 0.6 0.2
Cross-currency and interest rate swaps – (0.3)
Commodity contracts (5.1) 0.5
Losses/(gains) in equity recycled to the balance sheet**
Forward exchange contracts (0.5) –
Cross-currency and interest rate swaps – –
Commodity contracts – –
Balance at 30 April 2.7 13.0
* (Gains) and losses in equity transferred into proﬁt or loss during the period are included in the following line items on the face of the income
statement:
** (Gains) and losses in equity transferred onto the balance sheet during the period are included in the following line items on the face of the
balance sheet:
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue 0.9 0.1
Cost of sales (5.4) 0.6
Finance costs – (0.3)
(4.5) 0.4
2009 2008
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment (0.5) –
(ii) Fair value hedges
At 30 April 2009, the Group held interest rate and currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on ﬁxed rate
debt payable by the Group. The receive leg of the swap contracts is largely identical for all critical aspects to the terms of the underlying debt and
thus the hedging is highly effective. The pre-tax gain on the hedging derivative instruments taken to the income statement in the year was £48.4m
(2007/08: gain of £8.8m) offset by a pre-tax loss on the fair value of the debt of £47.2m (2007/08: loss of £8.4m).
(iii) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
The Group holds currency swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries. The pre-tax loss on the hedges recognised in
equity in the year was £19.4m (2007/08: loss of £20.0m). The gain or loss is matched by a similar gain or loss in equity on the retranslation of
the hedged foreign subsidiary’s net assets. During the year, hedge ineffectiveness arising from hedges of net investments resulted in a loss of £0.6m
(2007/08: loss of £0.7m).
d) Risk identiﬁcation and risk management
(i) Capital risk
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of cash: operating cash ﬂow, borrowings, shareholders’ equity and disposals of peripheral
businesses, where appropriate. The Group’s objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing
ﬂexibility in immediate and medium-term funding so as to accommodate material investments or acquisitions. The Group also aims to maintain a
strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of ﬁnancing by having a range of maturities and borrowings from a variety of sources. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 83
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
d) Risk identiﬁcation and risk management continued
(i) Capital risk continued
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufﬁcient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage ﬁnancial
risks. The Group’s treasury strategy is controlled though the Treasury Committee, which meets regularly and includes the Group Chief Executive, the
Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer. The Group Treasury Function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by
the Board and controlled by the Group Treasurer. The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements
strategies for interest rate, foreign exchange rate and energy exposure management.
(ii) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument ﬂuctuate because of a change in market prices. The Group is
exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rates. The risk is managed by the
Group maintaining an appropriate mix between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts. Hedging activities
are evaluated regularly to align with expectations of changes in interest rates, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning
the balance sheet or protecting interest rate expense through interest rate cycles. The Group’s exposures to interest rates on ﬁnancial assets and
ﬁnancial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
At 30 April 2009, 35% (2008: 16%) of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings were ﬁxed for a period of at least one year. The sensitivity
analysis below shows the impact on proﬁt and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates (representing management’s assessment
of the reasonably possible change in interest rates) in all currencies in which the Group had variable rate borrowings at 30 April.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits have been
increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Group’s interest rate
derivatives. The effect on equity includes the above impact on the income statement and the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates
on the market values of the Group’s interest rate derivatives.
The results are presented before minority interests and tax.
2009 2008
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on
profit total equity profit total equity
£m £m £m £m
Increase in market interest rates by 100 basis points (1.8) – (2.3) –
Under interest rate swap contracts the Group agrees to exchange the difference between ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed
notional principal amounts. At 30 April 2009, losses of £2.5m (2008: gains of £1.1m) (net of tax) are deferred in equity in respect of cash ﬂow
hedges of interest rate risk. This will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement,
which will occur over time to 2016. During the year, £nil of gains deferred in equity were transferred to the income statement (2007/08: £0.3m).
Foreign exchange risk
Foreign exchange risk on investments
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ from the
Group’s presentational currency. The Group hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and through cross-currency
swaps. Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in reserves.
Foreign exchange risk on borrowings
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. The Group hedges this exposure through
cross-currency swaps designated as either cash ﬂow or fair value hedges.
Foreign exchange risk on transactions
Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales and material purchases in a currency other than its functional
currency. Part of this risk is hedged using foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
At 30 April 2009, £1.4m (2008: £(0.4)m) (net of tax) is deferred in equity in respect of cash ﬂow hedges. This will be recycled to the income
statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which occurs within two years. During the year, £0.6m of losses
deferred in equity were transferred to the income statement (2007/08: £0.2m of losses).
The Group’s main currency exposures are from the euro and US dollar. The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Group’s results of
a 10% change in the year-end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies. 10% represents management’s assessment of the reasonably
possible change in foreign exchange rates. The analysis is only on ﬁnancial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact
of ﬁnancial instruments designated as net investment hedges. Loans that are treated as net investment hedges are not recorded within the impact on
the Group’s proﬁt as the impact of foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and opposite movements in the foreign assets that the
instruments hedge. 84 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
d) Risk identiﬁcation and risk management continued
Foreign exchange risk
The results are presented before minority interests and tax.
2009 2008
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on
profit total equity profit total equity
£m £m £m £m
10% strengthening of sterling (0.8) 0.9 (0.3) (0.9)
10% weakening of sterling 1.0 (1.1) 0.2 1.0
Commodity risk
The Group’s main commodity exposures are to changes in UK gas and UK electricity prices. Part of this commodity price risk is managed by a
combination of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments. At 30 April 2009, £4.8m (2008: £12.3m) (net of tax) is deferred in equity
in respect of cash ﬂow hedges in accordance with IAS 39. This will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item
also affects the income statement, which occurs within two years. During the year, £5.1m of gains deferred in equity were transferred to the income
statement (2007/08: £0.5m of losses).
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is management’s assessment of the reasonably possible
approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year. In some years prices will be less volatile and in others they may
be more volatile. A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity. As all of the Group’s commodity ﬁnancial instruments
achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on proﬁt for either ﬁnancial year.
The results are presented before minority interests and tax.
2009 2008
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on
profit total equity profit total equity
£m £m £m £m
10% increase in UK electricity prices – 3.8 – 3.1
10% increase in UK gas prices – 2.1 – 2.2
(iii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing ﬁnancial loss
to the Group. In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit risk. The majority of
the Group’s trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to
the Group’s customer base being large and diverse. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal
provision for bad and doubtful debts (see note 15).
Of which Of which past due but not impaired
Net carrying neither
amount impaired 1 month More than
(see note 15) nor past due or less 1–3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 12 months
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
The ageing of trade receivables
As at 30 April 2009 324.7 300.7 16.6 5.4 1.0 0.6 0.4
As at 30 April 2008 361.8 334.9 19.2 3.8 1.3 1.9 0.7
2009 2008
£m £m
Movement in the allowance for bad and doubtful receivables
Balance as at 1 May (13.7) (12.7)
Uncollectible amounts written off, net of receivables 0.3 2.2
Increase in allowance recognised in profit or loss (7.1) (2.2)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.2) (1.0)
Balance as at 30 April (see note 15) (21.7) (13.7)
Credit risk on ﬁnancial instruments held with ﬁnancial institutions is assessed through reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned to that
counterparty by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. During the year increased scrutiny has been given to all of the Group’s banking counterparties
and exposures have been reduced if deemed necessary. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 85
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
d) Risk identiﬁcation and risk management continued
(iv) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difﬁculty in meeting its obligations associated with its ﬁnancial liabilities as they fall due.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining adequate ﬁnancial resources, by continuously monitoring forecasted and actual cash ﬂows and
by matching the maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities to these risks.
e) Fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arm’s-length basis. For ﬁnancial instruments carried at
fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists. The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward
foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note
purchase agreements, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are shown at fair value on the balance sheet. Under IAS 39 hedge accounting rules, only portions of the
note purchase agreements which form part of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which bear ﬂoating-rates of interest is estimated to be equivalent to book value.
For current and non-current receivables (note 15) and current and non-current payables (note 16) and provisions (note 22), fair value is estimated to
be equivalent to book value and is not included in the table below.
Carrying amount Fair value
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts (8.8) (13.7) (8.8) (13.7)
Bank borrowings (85.1) (76.8) (85.1) (76.8)
Note purchase agreements (246.0) (184.0) (255.9) (188.7)
Derivatives held to manage interest rate and the Group’s exposure to foreign currency
on investments and borrowings (8.3) (40.7) (8.3) (40.7)
Finance leases (6.2) (6.3) (6.2) (6.3)
(354.4) (321.5) (364.3) (326.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 62.9 69.7 62.9 69.7
Net debt (291.5) (251.8) (301.4) (256.5)
Derivatives held to hedge future energy costs 6.7 16.9 6.7 16.9
Derivatives held to hedge foreign exchange on future purchases and sales of goods and services 2.6 (0.7) 2.6 (0.7) 86 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
f) Analysis of net debt cash ﬂows
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted cash ﬂows relating to net debt at the balance sheet date (including the effect of cross-currency
and interest rate swaps).
Contractual repayments
Weighted
average
effective 1 year More than
interest rate or less 1–5 years 5 years Total
As at 30 April 2009 %£m£m£m £m
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts 2.2% 8.8 – – 8.8
Bank loans 4.8% 4.9 80.2 – 85.1
Note purchase agreements 3.4% – 95.9 135.0 230.9
Finance leases 4.6% 0.9 2.1 3.2 6.2
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1.2% (62.9) – – (62.9)
Total net borrowings/(cash) 4.4% (48.3) 178.2 138.2 268.1
Contractual repayments
Weighted
average
effective 1 year More than
interest rate or less 1–5 years 5 years Total
As at 30 April 2008 %£m£m£m £m
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts 4.9% 13.7 – – 13.7
Bank loans 4.5% 5.5 71.1 0.2 76.8
Note purchase agreements 6.0% – 78.0 101.0 179.0
Finance leases 5.4% 0.9 2.1 3.3 6.3
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 2.3% (69.7) – – (69.7)
Total net borrowings/(cash) 6.5% (49.6) 151.2 104.5 206.1
The tables above exclude interest expense estimated to be £18.4m in 2009/10, £18.2m in 2010/11, £17.6m in 2011/12, £16.4m in 2012/13,
£6.4m in 2013/14 and £4.6m in 2014/15 and thereafter (assuming interest rates with respect to variable rate debt remain constant and there is
no change in the aggregate principal amount of debt other than as a result of repayment at scheduled maturity).
The above table does not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted as at 30 April 2009.
Refer to note 28 for an analysis of the Group’s future operating lease payments and to note 29 for a summary of the Group’s commitments.
The maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial derivatives, using undiscounted cash ﬂows, is presented in the tables on page 87. Where the payable
and receivable legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual payments/receipts have been calculated based on
exchange rates as at the respective year ends. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 87
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
20. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
f) Analysis of net debt cash ﬂows continued
Contractual payments/(receipts)
1 year More than
or less 1–5 years 5 years Total
Balance at 30 April 2009 £m £m £m £m
Payable
Energy derivatives 122.7 131.1 – 253.8
Foreign exchange 50.5 2.8 – 53.3
Interest rate and currency swaps 13.8 160.2 141.7 315.7
Receivable
Energy derivatives (131.0) (129.2) – (260.2)
Foreign exchange (53.1) (2.8) – (55.9)
Interest rate and currency swaps (16.8) (152.6) (146.3) (315.7)
Total derivatives (13.9) 9.5 (4.6) (9.0)
Contractual payments/(receipts)
1 year More than
or less 1–5 years 5 years Total
Balance at 30 April 2008 £m £m £m £m
Payable
Energy derivatives 72.8 62.0 – 134.8
Foreign exchange 23.0 2.8 – 25.8
Interest rate and currency swaps 14.3 119.7 139.0 273.0
Receivable
Energy derivatives (79.8) (72.7) – (152.5)
Foreign exchange (22.3) (2.8) – (25.1)
Interest rate and currency swaps (11.4) (83.6) (115.2) (210.2)
Total derivatives (3.4) 25.4 23.8 45.8
21. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items:
Assets Liabilities Net
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – – (70.5) (66.2) (70.5) (66.2)
Employee benefits including pensions 55.7 23.1 – – 55.7 23.1
Other items 17.5 8.3 – (5.0) 17.5 3.3
Tax assets/(liabilities) 73.2 31.4 (70.5) (71.2) 2.7 (39.8)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
Assets Liabilities
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Tax losses 3.7 3.6 – –
Unremitted earnings of overseas operations – – (5.2) (3.7)
Total 3.7 3.6 (5.2) (3.7)
The tax losses above include £2.7m which do not expire and £1.0m which expire between 2010 and 2014, under current tax legislation. Deferred
tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the
Group can utilise the beneﬁts therefrom. Deferred tax liabilities have not been provided for in respect of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries
as there is no current intention for any of the relevant overseas entities to remit their earnings. 88 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED
Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year
Property, plant
and equipment Employee beneﬁts
and intangible assets including pensions Other items Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 May (66.2) (72.7) 23.1 7.1 3.3 5.6 (39.8) (60.0)
Acquisitions and disposals – 6.2 – – – – – 6.2
Credit/(charge) for the year (0.6) 3.6 (2.3) (4.6) (4.2) (0.1) (7.1) (1.1)
Recognised directly in equity – – 34.9 20.6 18.4 (2.2) 53.3 18.4
Exchange adjustments (3.7) (3.3) – – – – (3.7) (3.3)
Balance at 30 April (70.5) (66.2) 55.7 23.1 17.5 3.3 2.7 (39.8)
At 30 April 2009, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences:
– except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill;
– except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects
neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
– in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of
the temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
At 30 April 2009, deferred tax assets were recognised for all taxable temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax
losses except where it is unlikely that taxable proﬁt will be available against which to offset the loss.
Legislation to remove tax depreciation on UK Industrial Buildings was enacted in the year and as a result deferred tax of £13.3m has been provided
in respect of temporary differences relating to certain UK buildings. This has been treated as an exceptional item.
22. PROVISIONS
Employee
beneﬁts Restructuring Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2008 5.2 11.3 12.5 29.0
Acquired during the year – – 0.5 0.5
Provisions made during the year 0.6 20.7 2.1 23.4
Provisions used during the year (0.4) (8.9) (7.4) (16.7)
Provisions reversed during the year – (1.3) – (1.3)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.4 0.5 0.3 1.2
Balance at 30 April 2009 5.8 22.3 8.0 36.1
Non-current 5.5 5.4 3.1 14.0
Current 0.3 16.9 4.9 22.1
5.8 22.3 8.0 36.1
The provision for employee beneﬁts mainly represents that for long-service awards. The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the
closures and restructuring costs described in note 4. Other provisions mainly relate to an acquired onerous service contract (see note 30) and to
provisions for vacant leaseholds and various legal claims. The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, except where the associated
costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period speciﬁed in the contract. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 89
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
23. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Retained earnings
Total
reserves
Total attributable
Share Share Hedging Translation Own retained to equity Minority Total
capital premium reserve reserve shares Other earnings shareholders interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2007 39.3 262.9 (1.5) 2.8 (3.0) 268.9 265.9 569.4 (2.3) 567.1
Profit for the period ––––– 76.6 76.6 76.6 1.6 78.2
Actuarial losses recognised
in the pension schemes ––––– (73.0) (73.0) (73.0) – (73.0)
Movement on deferred tax relating
to the actuarial losses ––––– 21.4 21.4 21.4 – 21.4
Currency translation differences
(including tax) – – – 24.3 – – – 24.3 0.7 25.0
Changes in the fair value of cash flow
hedges (including tax) – – 14.1 –––– 14.1 – 14.1
Amounts recognised in profit or loss
during the year (including tax) – – 0.4 –––– 0.4 – 0.4
New share capital issued – 0.2 ––––– 0.2 – 0.2
Own shares acquired –––– (2.0) – (2.0) (2.0) – (2.0)
Share-based payment expense
(including tax) –––– 0.8 0.1 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Dividends paid to shareholders ––––– (33.7) (33.7) (33.7) – (33.7)
Transactions with minority interest
(Toscana Ondulati SpA) ––––– 3.1 3.1 3.1 1.2 4.3
Purchase of minority interest
shares (DS Smith Polska S.A.) ––––––– – (1.0) (1.0)
Balance at 30 April 2008 39.3 263.1 13.0 27.1 (4.2) 263.4 259.2 601.7 0.2 601.9
Profit for the period ––––– (11.8) (11.8) (11.8) 0.6 (11.2)
Actuarial losses recognised
in the pension schemes ––––– (123.4) (123.4) (123.4) – (123.4)
Movement on deferred tax relating
to the actuarial gains ––––– 34.9 34.9 34.9 – 34.9
Currency translation differences
(including tax) – – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 0.4 0.7
Changes in the fair value of cash flow
hedges (including tax) – – (5.3) –––– (5.3) – (5.3)
Amounts recognised in profit or loss
during the year (including tax) – – (4.5) –––– (4.5) – (4.5)
Amounts recognised in property, plant
and equipment during the year – – (0.5) –––– (0.5) – (0.5)
Own shares acquired –––– (0.2) – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Share-based payment expense
(including tax) –––– 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Dividends paid to Group shareholders––––– (34.4) (34.4) (34.4) (34.4)
Dividends paid to minority interest ––––––– – (1.9) (1.9)
Transactions with minority interest
(Toscana Ondulati SpA) ––––– 0.9 0.9 0.9 (0.9) –
Balance at 30 April 2009 39.3 263.1 2.7 27.4 (4.2) 129.7 125.5 458.0 (1.6) 456.4 90 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED
Share capital
Number of shares
2009 2008 2009 2008
Millions Millions £m £m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each:
Authorised 410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 393.4 393.4 39.3 39.3
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the
Company. In respect of the Company’s shares that are held by the Group (see below), all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued. A
reconciliation of the movement in share capital is given in note 9 to the Company balance sheet on page 105.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign operations, as well
as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedging instruments related to hedged
transactions that have not yet occurred. Refer to note 20(c) for further analysis of movements in the hedging reserve.
Own shares
The reserve for the Company’s own shares comprises the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. The Group operates a General Employee
Beneﬁt Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the Executive Share Option scheme, the Restricted
Share Plan (discontinued in 2004) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (established in 2004). At 30 April 2009, the Trust held 2.4m shares (2008: 2.4m
shares). The market value of the shares at 30 April 2009 was £1.9m (2008: £3.1m). Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have
been waived.
Minority interests
At the beginning of the year, the Group had a liability of £3.5m and a corresponding entry against minority interests in respect of the non-controlling
shareholders’ put option in Toscana Ondulati SpA. This amount was calculated with reference to the recent proﬁtability of the company using a
multiple based formula. The fair value of the put options increased during the year by £0.9m. This charge was recorded within ﬁnance costs through
the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into minority interest.
24. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
The Group operates a funded, deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in the UK, the DS Smith Group Pension scheme (‘the Group scheme’). In 2006/07 the Group
operated a second funded, deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in the UK, the DS Smith Containers Pension scheme (‘the Containers scheme’); the assets and
liabilities of the Containers scheme were transferred to the Group scheme on 30 April 2007, with the effect that only the Group scheme operated from
1 May 2007. The Group made agreed annual contributions of £15.6m to the Group scheme in 2008/09 (2007/08: £14.6m). The Group operates
various local pension arrangements for overseas operations and unfunded arrangements for senior executives: these are, in aggregate, not signiﬁcant
to the Group. The ﬁnancial information given on pages 91 to 93 includes amounts related to these other arrangements, where appropriate. A charge
over certain assets of the Group has been made as security for certain of the unfunded arrangements. The most recent actuarial valuation of the
Group scheme was as at 30 April 2007, which has been updated to 30 April 2009 by a qualiﬁed independent actuary. All UK valuations used the
projected unit method. The Group scheme is closed to new entrants. Because of this, the average age of the active members is likely to increase at
future valuations and this may lead to an increasing current service contribution rate; this may be offset by a falling total pensionable salary resulting
from leavers and retirements. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 91
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
24. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
Liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
Principal actuarial assumptions are as follows:
2009 2008 2007 2006
% %% %
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 6.4% 5.9% 5.4% 5.1%
Inflation 3.3% 3.5% 2.9% 2.7%
Future salary increases 4.3% 4.5% 3.9% 3.7%
Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 3.3% 3.5% 2.9% 2.7%
Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3%
The sensitivity of the liabilities and annual service costs in the main UK scheme to the key assumptions above is summarised below:
Increase in Increase in
pension liability service costs
£m £m
0.5% decrease in discount rate (60.0) (1.5)
0.5% increase in inflation (60.0) (0.9)
1 year increase in life expectancy (20.0) (0.3)
Future mortality is the most signiﬁcant demographic assumption. The basic mortality table used by the Group at 30 April 2009 is PMA92/PFA92
(30 April 2008: PMA92/PFA92) with medium cohort mortality improvement. This means the mortality rates assumed for members of a particular age
differ from those for members who will reach that age in the future. Studies have illustrated that the amount of pension, the location of employees and
the nature of their work are signiﬁcant factors on mortality. As a result, the basic mortality table rates are based on ages two years older than the
members’ actual age for non-pensioners and three years older for pensioners.
The current life expectancies (in years) are:
2009 2008
Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65
Pensioner currently aged 65 19.5 22.3 19.4 22.2
Member currently aged 45 21.3 24.1 21.3 24.0
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of post-retirement beneﬁts, and the expected long-term rates of return applied to the schemes’
assets in the relevant ﬁnancial period, are as follows:
2009 2008 2007 2006
Expected Expected Expected Expected
rate of Market rate of Market rate of Market rate of Market
return value return value return value return value
%£m % £m % £m % £m
Equities 7.4% 349.8 7.6% 490.8 7.4% 527.1 7.5% 524.5
Bonds, gilts and cash (weighted average) 5.1% 205.5 4.4% 231.0 4.1% 210.8 4.3% 181.6
Total market value of assets 555.3 721.8 737.9 706.1
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (746.6) (797.7) (756.5) (756.4)
Deﬁcit in the schemes (191.3) (75.9) (18.6) (50.3)
Related deferred tax asset 53.3 21.4 5.6 15.0
Net pension liability (138.0) (54.5) (13.0) (35.3) 92 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
Movements in the liability for deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ obligations recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Schemes’ liabilities at 1 May (797.7) (756.5) (756.4) (674.1)
Employment benefit finance expense (46.4) (40.1) (38.1) (35.2)
Expense recognised in the income statement (11.7) (9.8) (10.9) (11.4)
Member contributions (6.2) (6.4) (6.9) (6.8)
Curtailments – – – 3.3
Pension payments 31.6 28.0 31.3 24.2
Payments to the Pension Protection Fund 1.5 – 0.1 –
Actuarial gains and (losses) recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income
and expense 84.0 (10.8) 24.2 (56.4)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.7) (2.1) 0.2 –
Schemes’ liabilities at 30 April (746.6) (797.7) (756.5) (756.4)
Movements in the fair value of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ assets recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Schemes’ assets at 1 May 721.8 737.9 706.1 559.3
Employer contributions 16.9 16.8 17.3 16.8
Member contributions 6.2 6.4 6.9 6.8
Other contributions – 0.7 – –
Expected return on schemes’ assets 47.9 48.9 46.1 36.4
Actuarial gains and (losses) recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income
and expense (207.4) (62.2) (7.2) 110.8
Pension payments (31.4) (27.8) (31.2) (24.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1.3 1.1 (0.1) –
Schemes’ assets at 30 April 555.3 721.8 737.9 706.1
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Current service cost (9.7) (8.3) (9.3) (11.1)
Past service cost (0.8) (1.1) (1.5) (0.3)
Pension Protection Fund levy (1.2) (0.4) (0.1) –
Total service cost (11.7) (9.8) (10.9) (11.4)
Interest on schemes’ liabilities (46.4) (40.1) (38.1) (35.2)
Expected return on schemes’ assets 47.9 48.9 46.1 36.4
Employment benefit net finance income 1.5 8.8 8.0 1.2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 93
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
24. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets (207.4) (62.2) (7.2) 110.8
Experience gains and (losses) arising on schemes’ liabilities – 16.1 10.3 (17.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of schemes’ liabilities 84.0 (26.9) 13.9 (38.5)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense (123.4) (73.0) 17.0 54.4
History of experience gains and losses
2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Difference between expected and actual returns on schemes’ assets (207.4) (62.2) (7.2) 110.8
Above as a percentage of schemes’ assets (37)% (9)% (1)% 16%
Experience gains and (losses) arising on schemes’ liabilities – 16.1 10.3 (17.9)
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities – 2% 1% (2)%
Total amount recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense (123.4) (73.0) 17.0 54.4
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities (17)% (9)% 2% 7%
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE
The Group’s share-based payment arrangements are as follows:
(i) An Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) was operated for Executive Directors and other senior executives, this scheme ceased to be operated
from September 2008. Approved and unapproved options were granted to UK and overseas executives on an annual basis. The vesting of any
options granted under this Scheme is subject to the achievement of long-term performance conditions, being that the growth in the Company’s
normalised earnings per share must match or exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index plus an average of 3% per annum over the three-year
period following grant. The base ﬁnancial year for the purposes of measuring earnings per share growth was the ﬁnancial year prior to the grant
date. Normally, no part of the option will vest unless the long-term performance conditions have been achieved and the vesting period of three
years’ service has been attained.
(ii) In the past, Executive Directors and other senior executives received an award of shares in the Company equal in value to the participant’s annual
cash bonus, pursuant to a Restricted Share Plan (RSP). The award of these shares is dependent upon performance in the relevant ﬁnancial year.
There is a vesting period of three years’ service. This scheme ceased to be operated from September 2004.
(iii)In September 2004, the Group established a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), this scheme ceased to be operated from September 2008. The key
features of the plan are that:
• awards were made to selected Executive Directors and other senior executives over shares in the Company; performance will be measured
over a single period of three ﬁnancial years;
• awards will vest based on the Company’s total shareholder return (being the increase in share price and the value of reinvested dividends)
compared to a comparator group of companies, being the constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) for initial awards;
• if the Company’s total shareholder return is ranked at the upper quartile of the comparator group or higher, the full award will vest, reducing
on a straight-line basis to 30% of the award vesting for median performance. None of the award vests for below median performance; and
• additionally, no awards will vest, irrespective of total shareholder return performance, unless the Company’s earnings per share growth matches
or exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the three-year period.
(iv) A Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) is operated for Executive Directors. Shares awarded to Directors under the Plan will vest automatically if the
Director is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award.
(v) A Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan (RDSP) was introduced during 2007/08 for Mr S W Dryden. The shares awarded under the Plan
replace similar deferred share awards granted to Mr Dryden by his previous employer.
(vi) A Performance Share Plan (PSP) was approved during the year to replace the ESOS and LTIP plans above (see Remuneration Report for
further details). 94 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED
The key features of the PSP are as follows:
• awards are made to Executive Directors and other senior executives.
• the individual grant limit under the PSP is 150% of basic salary per annum (in exceptional circumstances this may be increased to 200% of
basic salary). During the 2008/09 period Executive Directors received an award under the PSP of 150% of basic salary. The other most senior
executives generally received a PSP award of 100% basic salary.
• the vesting of each 2008 award is subject to three equally weighted performance measures:
(i) the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the
FTSE 250;
(ii) average adjusted earnings per share (EPS);
(iii) average adjusted return on average capital employed (ROACE).
• for those senior executives working in one of the four Business Segments, for 2008 the three measures are TSR of the Company, average
adjusted operating proﬁt and average adjusted ROACE for the relevant segment.
• future awards under the PSP will be subject to a combination of the same performance measures however the weightings of the measures
may be altered and certain measures may not be used in all years.
• the 2009 award will be reduced to a maximum of 100% of basic salary and the award weightings will be as follows:
80% each award will be based on a TSR component as per above; and
20% of each award will be based on average adjusted ROACE.
• for those senior executives working in one of the four Business Segments, for 2009 the two measures are TSR and ROACE for the
relevant segment.
• each award’s performance will be measured over the three ﬁnancial years commencing on 1 May preceding the award date.
• see the Remuneration Report on page 42 for a summary of threshold and upper targets for the 2008/09 and 2009/10 PSP awards.
The total number of options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements as at 30 April 2009 was as follows:
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Weighted
average Weighted Weighted
remaining average average
Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise
of shares range (p) (years) price (p) exercisable price (p)
Executive Share Option Scheme (1992) 52,163 166.6 0.3 166.6 52,163 166.6
Executive Share Option Scheme (1999) 5,541,320 135.2-243.8 5.6 162.4 3,567,620 148.5
Restricted Share Plan 29,373 Nil 2.3 Nil 29,373 Nil
Long-Term Incentive Plan 1,943,348 Nil 0.7 Nil Nil Nil
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 222,595 Nil 1.9 Nil Nil Nil
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan 113,178 Nil 1.5 Nil Nil Nil
Performance Share Plan 4,089,991 Nil 2.4 Nil Nil Nil
The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
Executive Share Executive Share Restricted Long-Term
Option Scheme (1992) Option Scheme (1999) Share Plan Incentive Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average
exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options
2009 price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2008 172.0 218 161.7 6,790 Nil 54 Nil 3,588
Granted Nil – Nil – Nil – Nil –
Exercised Nil – Nil – Nil (25) Nil (56)
Lapsed 173.7 (165.4) 158.2 (1,249) Nil – Nil (1,589)
Balance at 30 April 2009 166.6 53 162.4 5,541 Nil 29 Nil 1,943
Exercisable at 30 April 2009 166.6 53 148.5 3,568 Nil 29 Nil Nil DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 95
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED
Deferred Share Replacement Deferred Performance
Bonus Plan Share Bonus Plan Share Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average
exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options
2009 continued price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2008 Nil 69 Nil 143 Nil –
Granted Nil 153 Nil – Nil 4,090
Exercised Nil – Nil (30) Nil –
Lapsed Nil – Nil – Nil –
Balance at 30 April 2009 Nil 222 Nil 113 Nil 4,090
Exercisable at 30 April 2009 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Executive Share Executive Share Restricted Long-Term
Option Scheme (1992) Option Scheme (1999) Share Plan Incentive Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average
exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options
2008 price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2007 169.4 340 150.0 7,192 Nil 536 Nil 3,987
Granted Nil – 244.0 938 Nil – Nil 948
Exercised 164.8 (21) 148.2 (132) Nil 482 Nil (23)
Lapsed 164.8 (101) 157.6 (1,208) Nil – Nil (1,324)
Balance at 30 April 2008 172.0 218 161.7 6,790 Nil 54 Nil 3,588
Exercisable at 30 April 2008 172.0 218 146.4 126 Nil 54 Nil Nil
Deferred Replacement Deferred
Bonus Plan Share Bonus Plan
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Options exercise Options
2008 continued price (p) (‘000s) price (p) (‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2007 Nil – Nil –
Granted Nil 95 Nil 143
Exercised Nil – Nil –
Lapsed Nil (26) Nil –
Balance at 30 April 2008 Nil 69 Nil 143
Exercisable at 30 April 2008 Nil Nil Nil Nil
The average share price of the Company during the ﬁnancial year was 93.7 pence (2007/08: 205.4 pence). NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
96 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED
The total expense recognised as employee costs is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2002/03 – 0.1
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2003/04 – 0.7
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2004/05 (0.1) –
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2005/06 0.2 0.5
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2006/07 (0.4) 0.3
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2007/08 0.2 0.5
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2008/09 0.4 –
Total expense recognised as employee costs 0.3 2.1
The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP and the DSBP schemes. This is the ﬁrst year of operation for the PSP scheme, accordingly
there is no comparative information.
The fair value of the PSP award granted during the period determined using the stochastic valuation model, was £2.2m. The signiﬁcant inputs into the model
were share price of £1.24 for the PSP at the grant date; the exercise prices shown above; expected volatility of share price of 37.5%; scheme life disclosed
above; annual risk-free interest rate of 4.2% and expected dividend yield of 7.1%. The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation
of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices over a period of three years.
The signiﬁcant input into the model for the DSBP plan was share price of £1.15 (2008: £2.37) at the grant date.
There were no grants for the LTIP or ESOS during the period as these plans ceased to be operated during the 2008/09 period.
The fair value of options granted during the 2008 period, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was £2.0m. The signiﬁcant inputs into the model
were: share price of £2.37 for LTIP, £2.44 for ESOS; exercise prices shown above; standard deviation of expected share price returns of 24.1% for LTIP and
26.6% for ESOS; options life disclosed above; annual risk-free interest rate of 5.5% for LTIP and 5.4% for ESOS; and expected dividend yield of 3.6% for
LTIP and 3.5% for ESOS. The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns was based on statistical
analysis of daily share prices over a period of three to six years. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 97
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
26. CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
2009 2009 2008 2008
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year (11.2) 78.2
Adjustments for
Exceptional item charged to income statement 55.7 1.9
Cash outflow for exceptional items (17.2) (5.8)
Depreciation and amortisation 69.9 62.0
Profit on sale of non-current assets (1.7) (4.4)
Share of profit of associates before exceptional loss of £(5.1)m (2007/08: £nil) (0.6) (3.4)
Employment benefit net finance income (1.5) (8.8)
Share-based payment expense 0.3 2.1
Finance income (2.5) (3.3)
Finance costs 26.1 24.1
Other non-cash items – (1.3)
Income tax expense 28.0 30.9
156.5 94.0
Changes in
Inventories 25.5 (11.8)
Trade and other receivables 70.8 (20.1)
Trade and other payables (65.5) 45.1
Provisions and employee benefits (9.7) (5.6)
21.1 7.6
Cash generated from operations 166.4 179.8 98 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT
2009 2008
£m £m
Operating profit before exceptional items 94.0 119.6
Depreciation and amortisation 69.9 62.0
EBITDA 163.9 181.6
Working capital movement 30.8 13.2
Other (11.1) (9.2)
Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 183.6 185.6
Capital expenditure payments (87.4) (66.5)
Proceeds from sales of assets and investments 7.7 9.3
Tax paid (21.0) (27.8)
Net interest paid (23.0) (16.8)
Dividends received from associate – 1.0
Free cash flow before net (acquisitions)/disposals and dividends 59.9 84.8
Exceptional cash costs (17.2) (5.8)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders (34.4) (33.7)
Dividends paid to minorities in Group subsidiaries (1.9) –
Net acquisitions of subsidiaries (1.2) (87.2)
Net cash flow 5.2 (41.9)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital – 0.2
Purchase of own shares (0.2) (2.0)
Net debt acquired (0.2) (1.3)
Foreign exchange and fair value movements (note 17) (44.5) (25.6)
Net debt movement (39.7) (70.6)
Opening net debt (251.8) (181.2)
Closing net debt (291.5) (251.8)
28. OPERATING LEASES
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Less than one year 21.0 23.6
Between one and five years 58.9 65.7
More than five years 35.7 37.9
115.6 127.2
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, machines, vehicles and ofﬁce equipment.
As at 30 April 2009, the Group’s future minimum sub-lease receipts totalled £1.1m (2008: £1.2m), of which: £0.2m (2008: £0.2m) falls
within one year; £0.9m (2008: £0.8m) between one and ﬁve years; and £nil (2008: £0.2m) after ﬁve years.
29. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
As at 30 April 2009, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of £2.9m (2008: £19.3m). DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 99
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
30. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
2008/09
Vale Paper Limited
On 2 September 2008 the Group acquired the assets of Vale Paper Limited, a waste paper collection business in the UK, for a consideration of
£1.2m. Further deferred consideration of £0.5m is due 18 months after the acquisition subject to certain performance measures being achieved.
2007/08
(a) New Thames and Grovehurst Energy
On 29 February 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the voting share capital of M-real New Thames Limited, which owned a paper mill in Kent, UK.
On this date and also as part of the same acquisition, the Group acquired the balance of the voting share capital of its joint venture, Grovehurst
Energy Limited, not already owned by the Group. Grovehurst Energy provides energy and other services to the site on which the New Thames Mill
operates. The joint venture in Grovehurst Energy Limited was entered into in 1988 in connection with the Group’s acquisition of the Kemsley Mill,
which is adjacent to the New Thames Mill. The results of Grovehurst Energy have been consolidated as a subsidiary from 29 February 2008.
The impact on the Group’s assets and liabilities was as follows:
Carrying
values before
acquisition Fair values
£m £m
Intangible assets (EU emission allowances) – 5.1
Property, plant and equipment 46.8 61.2
Inventories 3.0 3.0
Trade and other receivables 1.3 12.2
Trade and other payables (2.5) (3.9)
Provisions – (7.7)
Net assets acquired 48.6 69.9
Goodwill –
Consideration 69.9
Consideration satisﬁed by:
Cash paid of £71.1m (including £1.1m of acquisition costs), being £67.4m in relation to New Thames and £3.7m for Grovehurst Energy, less cash
and cash equivalents acquired of £1.2m.
The fair value adjustments relate to the valuation of surplus EU emission allowances received as part of the acquisition; the valuation of property, plant
and equipment, as determined by an external valuation ﬁrm; recognition of a provision for an onerous service contract; and deferred and current tax
assets recognised on acquisition. Deferred tax is also recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments.
(b) Other acquisitions
On 4 March 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the voting equity instruments of Multigraphics Holdings Limited, a print and retail display business
in the UK, for a consideration of £6.7m. The excess of the consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired of £3.1m, which includes an
intangible asset of £2.6m recognised in relation to the value of the acquired order book (with an estimated useful life of ten years), has been
recognised as goodwill in these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
During the year, further share capital in Toscana Ondulati SpA was acquired for £11.9m (see note 23).
On 30 September 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the voting share capital of Timmermans NV. During 2007/08, additional deferred
consideration of £2.5m became due to the previous owners following the satisfaction of certain performance criteria of the acquired business.
31. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries (see note 32) and associates
(see note 12). The key management personnel of DS Smith Plc comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. The
compensation of key management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 41 to 48 of the Annual Report. Certain
key management also participate in the Group’s share option programme (refer to note 25). Included within the share-based payment expense is
a charge of £0.2m (2008: £0.7m) relating to key management.
Other related party transactions
2009 2008
£m £m
Sales to associates and joint ventures – 17.4
Purchases from associates and joint ventures 0.4 0.5 100 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
100 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. DS SMITH GROUP COMPANIES
Control of the Group
The Group’s ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc.
List of key consolidated companies
Country of Ownership
incorporation interest
or registration 2009
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
St Regis Paper Company Limited England 100%*
SRP New Thames Limited England 100%*
A. A. Griggs and Company Limited England 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Limited England 100%*
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Polska S.A. Poland 100%*
Toscana Ondulati SpA Italy 92%*
DS Smith Çopikas AS Turkey 100%*
Plastic Packaging
DS Smith Plastics Limited England 100%*
Cartón Plástico s.a. Spain 100%*
DW Plastics NV Belgium 100%*
Ducaplast S.A.S. France 100%*
Demes Logistics GmbH & Co KG Germany 100%*
David S. Smith America Inc. USA 100%*
DSS Rapak Inc. USA 100%*
StePac L.A. Limited Israel 90%*
Rapak GmbH & Co KG Systemverpackungen Germany 100%*
Rapak Asia Pacific Limited New Zealand 100%*
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
Spicers Limited England 100%*
Spicers (Ireland) Limited Ireland 100%*
Spicers France SAS France 100%*
Spicers NV Belgium 100%*
* indirectly held by DS Smith Plc
A complete list of the Group’s companies is available from the registered office.
33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
No material events occurred after the balance sheet date that require disclosure. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 101
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 1.5 1.5
Investments 5 357.0 995.3
358.5 996.8
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 6 21.0 48.0
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 1,092.5 529.2
Cash at bank and in hand 1.7 0.3
1,115.2 577.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade and other creditors 7 (44.9) (68.0)
Borrowings 7 (47.1) (32.4)
Net current assets 1,023.2 477.1
Total assets less current liabilities 1,381.7 1,473.9
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Trade and other creditors 7 (24.3) (46.3)
Borrowings 7 (823.6) (798.6)
Provisions for liabilities 8 (2.7) (0.6)
Net assets excluding pension liability 531.1 628.4
Net pension liability 2 (134.4) (51.9)
Net assets including pension liability 396.7 576.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 39.3 39.3
Share premium account 10 263.1 263.1
Acquisition reserve 10 – 88.1
Profit and loss account 10 94.3 186.0
Shareholders’ funds 396.7 576.5
Approved by the Board on 24 June 2009 and signed on its behalf by
A D Thorne, Director
S W Dryden, Director
The notes on pages 102 to 106 form part of these accounts.
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH UK GAAP
As at 30 April 2009 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH UK GAAP CONTINUED
102 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A summary of the signiﬁcant accounting policies, which have been applied
consistently, is set out below:
(a) Accounting basis
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with
applicable accounting standards.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt
from the requirement to present its own proﬁt and loss account.
As the results of the Company are being presented together with its
consolidated ﬁnancial statements (refer to pages 54 to 100), the Company
has taken advantage of the exception contained in FRS 8 and has
therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form
part of the Group (or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties).
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29
‘Financial instruments: disclosures’ not to present Company only
information as the disclosures provided in the notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements comply with the requirements of this standard.
(b) Income recognition
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised in the proﬁt
and loss account when declared by the subsidiary undertaking.
(c) Tangible ﬁxed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets are stated at cost. Depreciation is calculated to write
off the cost or valuation less the estimated residual value of all tangible
ﬁxed assets in equal annual installments over their estimated useful lives
at the following rates:
Plant, machinery, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 3 – 5 years
(d) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less provisions for impairment.
(e) Deferred taxation
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided in full on timing
differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay
more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected
to apply when they crystallise, provided at current tax rates and based
on current legislation. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items
of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different
from those in which they are included in the ﬁnancial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as
more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are not discounted.
(f) Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the ﬁnancial year-end.
Exchange differences arising on translation are taken to the proﬁt and
loss account.
(g) Pension contributions
The amounts charged to operating proﬁt in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt
arrangements are the current service costs and gains and losses on
settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs. Past
service costs are recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account if
the beneﬁts have vested. If the beneﬁts have not vested immediately, the
costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs. Actuarial gains
and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised
gains and losses.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are
measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and
discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high
quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and duration to the scheme
liabilities. The resulting deﬁned beneﬁt net asset or liability, net of the
related deferred tax, is presented separately after other net assets on the
face of the balance sheet.
(h) Financial instruments
Financial instruments are reported in accordance with FRS 26 ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments, primarily interest rate,
currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities
and the ﬁnancing of these activities. The Group has a policy not to, and
does not, undertake any speculative activity in these instruments.
Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on
the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair
value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are accounted for as hedges when
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the
ﬁnancial instruments provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk.
Any gains or losses arising from the hedging instruments are offset
against the hedged items.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as:
– fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair
value of a recognised asset or liability; and
– cash ﬂow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ﬂows
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
(i) Share options
The Company operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant
of the options is recognised as an expense. The fair value of the options
granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the
terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The total
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference
to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any
non-market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are included
in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become
exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates
of the numbers of options that are expected to become exercisable. It
recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the
income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received as a result of such options being exercised, net
of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital
(nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised.
Where applicable, the fair value of employee services received by
subsidiary undertakings within the DS Smith Plc Group in exchange
for options granted by the Company is recognised as an expense in
the ﬁnancial statements of the subsidiary by means of a recharge from
the Company. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 103
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
2. PENSIONS
Details of the assumptions used in the calculation of the underlying assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements on page 91.
2009 2008
£m £m
Market value of schemes’ assets 544.7 711.4
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (731.3) (783.5)
Deficit in the schemes (186.6) (72.1)
Related deferred tax asset 52.2 20.2
Net pension liability (134.4) (51.9)
The movement in the deﬁcit during the year is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Opening deficit (72.1) (14.0)
Service cost (9.3) (8.8)
Pension Protection Fund Levy (1.2) (0.4)
Contributions 15.6 15.4
Payments to Pension Protection Fund 1.5 –
Other finance income 1.6 8.8
Actuarial gains and losses (122.9) (73.3)
Net payments 0.2 0.2
Closing deficit (186.6) (72.1)
Information on other aspects of the Company’s deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements is materially the same as set out in note 24 to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements.
3. EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
The average number of employees employed by the Company during the year was 31 (2007/08: 35).
2009 2008
£m £m
Wages and salaries 3.9 5.1
Social security costs 0.2 0.6
Pension costs 0.4 0.3
Total 4.5 6.0
Note 25 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements sets out the disclosure information required for the Company’s share-based payments. NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH UK GAAP CONTINUED
104 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 May 2008 1.4 3.2 4.6
Additions – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 30 April 2009 1.4 3.3 4.7
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 May 2008 – (3.1) (3.1)
Depreciation charge for the year – (0.1) (0.1)
Balance at 30 April 2009 – (3.2) (3.2)
Carrying amount
Balance as at 1 May 2008 1.4 0.1 1.5
Balance as at 30 April 2009 1.4 0.1 1.5
5. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
Shares
in Group
undertakings Other Total
£m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2008 995.3 – 995.3
Additions 522.3 – 522.3
Disposals (995.3) – (995.3)
Impairment charge (165.3) – (165.3)
Balance at 30 April 2009 357.0 – 357.0
The additions and disposals relate to the restructuring of the Group’s holding companies. The impairment charge arose following the payment of a
dividend from a Group holding company to the Company equivalent to this amount.
The Company’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings at 30 April 2009 are shown in note 32 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
6. DEBTORS
2009 2008
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 0.1 29.7
Corporation tax 11.3 9.2
Other debtors includes other tax 0.9 1.6
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 0.2
Derivative financial instruments 8.5 7.3
21.0 48.0
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,078.8 518.5
Deferred tax asset – 0.5
Derivative financial instruments 13.7 10.2
1,092.5 529.2
Total debtors 1,113.5 577.2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 105
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
7. CREDITORS
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade and other creditors falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 31.9 52.8
Other tax and social security payables 3.1 2.6
Accruals and deferred income 9.7 12.4
Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2
44.9 68.0
Trade and other creditors falling due after more than one year
Deferred tax liability 0.6 5.2
Derivative financial instruments 23.7 41.1
24.3 46.3
Borrowings falling due within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 47.1 32.4
47.1 32.4
Borrowings falling due after more than one year (see note 19 of the consolidated accounts for further details)
Bank loans 77.5 68.2
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 500.1 546.4
Other loans 246.0 184.0
823.6 798.6
Total creditors 939.9 945.3
8. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES
Restructuring Other Total
£m £m £m
Balance at 1 May 2008 – 0.6 0.6
Charged to the profit and loss account 1.9 0.2 2.1
Balance at 30 April 2009 1.9 0.8 2.7
9. SHARE CAPITAL
Number of shares
2009 2008 2009 2008
Millions Millions £m £m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each
Authorised 410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 393.4 393.4 39.3 39.3 106 www.dssmith.uk.com
10. RESERVES
Share
Proﬁt and loss account
premium Acquisition Own Hedging
account reserve shares reserves Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 May 2008 263.1 88.1 (4.2) 13.3 176.9 186.0
Retained (loss)/profit for the financial year – (88.1) – – 9.5 9.5
Actuarial losses on pension schemes – – – – (122.9) (122.9)
Tax on actuarial losses on pension schemes – – – – 34.4 34.4
Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges (including tax) – – – (12.2) – (12.2)
Own shares acquired – – (0.2) – – (0.2)
Share-based payments (after tax) – – 0.2 – (0.5) (0.3)
At 30 April 2009 263.1 – (4.2) 1.1 97.4 94.3
The Company made a (loss)/proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year of £(44.4)m (2007/08: £31.4m) including the recognition of intra-group dividends.
No separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company’s proﬁt and loss account includes an amount of £nil (2007/08: £76.6m) which is considered non-distributable.
11. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has guaranteed the gross overdrafts and loans of certain subsidiary undertakings, which at 30 April 2009 amounted to £64.5m
(2008: £124.1m).
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH UK GAAP CONTINUED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 107
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 631.2 649.6 687.1 753.2 785.8
Continental European Corrugated Packaging 265.7 276.6 308.0 346.0 363.4
Plastic Packaging 195.9 202.4 201.8 223.4 236.9
Office Products Wholesaling 499.7 518.7 569.2 644.9 720.5
Office Products Manufacturing
3
46.8 5.4 – – –
Intra-segment (14.4) – – – –
Group revenue 1,624.9 1,652.7 1,766.1 1,967.5 2,106.6
Operating proﬁt
1
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 31.6 20.5 36.5 68.5 36.5
Continental European Corrugated Packaging 20.2 20.1 18.2 20.3 30.4
Plastic Packaging 9.3 7.2 10.2 10.7 7.0
Office Products Wholesaling 21.5 12.6 12.8 20.1 20.1
Office Products Manufacturing
3
–––– –
Group operating proﬁt
1
82.6 60.4 77.7 119.6 94.0
Share of profit of associates
1
3.4 4.1 3.9 3.4 0.6
Net finance cost (13.2) (12.3) (15.0) (20.8) (23.6)
Employee benefit net finance income 1.1 1.2 8.0 8.8 1.5
Profit before taxation and exceptional items 73.9 53.4 74.6 111.0 72.5
Exceptional items (9.6) (42.4) 3.9 (1.9) (55.7)
Profit before income tax 64.3 11.0 78.5 109.1 16.8
Free cash flow
1
58.3 67.8 91.9 84.8 59.9
Capital expenditure
4
53.6 62.7 66.0 68.6 83.2
Depreciation and amortisation 68.6 67.2 62.9 62.0 69.9
Average capital employed
2
949.0 930.0 895.0 925.7 1,009.5
Shareholders’ funds 519.8 541.5 567.1 601.9 456.4
Net debt 260.7 237.8 181.2 251.8 291.5
Adjusted return on sales
1
5.1% 3.7% 4.4% 6.1% 4.5%
Adjusted return on average capital employed
1
8.7% 6.5% 8.7% 12.9% 9.3%
Gearing 50.2% 43.9% 32.0% 41.8% 63.9%
Adjusted earnings per share
1
14.4p 10.0p 13.1p 19.9p 12.6p
Dividends per share 8.4p 8.4p 8.6p 8.8p 4.4p
Adjusted dividend cover
1
1.7x 1.2x 1.5x 2.3x 2.9x
Net assets per share 133.6p 138.5p 144.9p 153.9p 116.7p
1 before exceptional items
2 average capital employed is defined in note 2 on page 65
3 the Office Products Manufacturing business was sold in July 2005
4 capital expenditure represents additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2009
108 www.dssmith.uk.com
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc
will be held at the Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel, Liverpool Street,
London EC2M 7QN, on Tuesday 8 September 2009 at 12 noon to consider
and, if thought ﬁt, pass the following resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 7
will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 will
be proposed as special resolutions.
1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Report, the Auditors’ Report and
ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 30 April 2009.
2 To declare a ﬁnal dividend on the ordinary shares.
3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
4 To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a Director of the Company.
5 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold ofﬁce until
the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are to be
laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine
the remuneration of the auditors.
6 That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from
£41,000,000 to £70,000,000 by the creation of 290,000,000
additional ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the
Company ranking pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company.
7 That:
(a) in accordance with article 6 of the Articles of Association of
the Company
(i) the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a
maximum nominal amount of £13,111,863.10; and further
(ii) the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to
an additional maximum nominal amount of £13,111,863.10
in connection with a rights issue (as deﬁned in article 7 of the
Company’s Articles of Association);
(b) this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier,
1 November 2010; and
(c) all previous unutilised authorities under Section 80 of the Companies
Act 1985 shall cease to have effect (save to the extent that the same
are exercisable pursuant to Section 80(7) of the Companies Act 1985
by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this
resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be
allotted on or after that date).
8 That:
(a) in accordance with article 7 of the Articles of Association of the
Company, the Directors be given power to allot equity securities
for cash;
(b) the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities within
Section 94(3A) of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section 89(1)
of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply;
(c) the powers under paragraph (a) above (other than in connection
with a rights issue) and paragraph (b) above shall be limited to
the allotment of equity securities having a maximum nominal
amount of £1,966,779;
(d) these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 1 November 2010, save
that the Company shall be entitled under such authorities to honour
at any time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary
shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the
expiry of such authority; and
(e) all previous unutilised authorities under Section 95 of the Companies
Act 1985 be revoked.
9 That in accordance with article 11 of the Articles of Association of the
Company and the Companies Act 1985, the Company is generally
and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1985) of ordinary shares of 10 pence
each in the capital of the Company in such manner and on such terms
as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be
purchased is 39,335,589 ordinary shares;
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share
is 10 pence (exclusive of expenses payable by the Company);
(c) the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is
an amount equal to the higher of 105% of the average of the middle
market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London
Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial List for the ﬁve business days immediately
preceding the date of any such purchase and the amount stipulated
by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003
(in each case exclusive of expenses payable by the Company); and
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked
or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting
to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 1 November 2010, save that the
Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any
time before the expiry thereof any contract to purchase its ordinary
shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the
expiry of such authority.
10That in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, a
general meeting (other than an Annual General Meeting) may be
called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By Order of the Board
CAROLYN CATTERMOLE
Company Secretary
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
From end August 2009:
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
16 July 2009
NOTICE OF MEETING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 109
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
NOTES
(i) Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the
Company as at 6pm on 6 September 2009 shall be entitled to attend
and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered
in their names at that time.
(ii) Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their
rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the
Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that
shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
(iii) A Form of Proxy is enclosed. To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach
the Registrars at the address shown on the Form not later than 48
hours before the time of the Meeting. Completion and return of the
Form will not, however, prevent a Member from attending and voting
at the Meeting.
(iv) Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between them
and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to
be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the
Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy
appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any
such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as
to the exercise of voting rights.
(v) The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment
of proxies in Notes (ii) and (iii) above does not apply to Nominated
Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised
by shareholders of the Company.
(vi) Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered
holder of their shares (and not the Company) on matters relating to
their investments in the Company.
(vii) CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting
to be held on 8 September 2009 and any adjournment(s) thereof by
using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal
Members or other CREST sponsored Members, and those CREST
Members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with
Euroclear’s speciﬁcations and must contain the information required
for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message,
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy
must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by
the issuer’s agent (ID RA19) by the latest time for receipt of proxy
appointments speciﬁed in (iii) above. For this purpose, the time of
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp
applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which
the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST
in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of
instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated
to the appointee through other means.
CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or
voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make
available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation
to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the
CREST Member concerned to take (or, if the CREST Member is a CREST
personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed a voting
service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a
message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular
time. In this connection, CREST Members and, where applicable, their
CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular,
to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations
of the CREST system and timings. The Company may treat as invalid
a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation
35(5)(a) of the Uncertiﬁcated Securities Regulations 2001.
(viii)As at 24 June 2009 (being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of this document), the Company’s issued share capital
consists of 393,355,893 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 24 June 2009
are 393,355,893.
(ix) In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the
Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that
(a) if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the
Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on
a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate
representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those
corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and
the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative
in accordance with those directions; and
(b) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate
shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not
appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative,
a designated corporate representative will be nominated from those
corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and
the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that
designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are
referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives –
www.icsa.org.uk – for further details of this procedure. The guidance
includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is
being appointed as described in (a) above.
(x) It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by Members of the Company
under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be
required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter
relating to the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the Auditors’
Report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the
Annual General Meeting. The business which may be dealt with at
the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company
has been required, under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006,
to publish on its website.
(xi) Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at
the Company’s Registered Ofﬁce and at the ofﬁces of Allen & Overy LLP,
One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD during normal business hours
and at the place of the Meeting from 11.45am until its conclusion:
(a) service contracts of the Executive Directors; and
(b) letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive
Directors.
(xii) The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
will be available to answer relevant questions at the Meeting. NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2009 CONTINUED
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON THE RESOLUTIONS
Resolution 1:
Report and ﬁnancial statements
The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the
Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the ﬁnancial statements of the
Company for the year ended 30 April 2009. These are contained in the
Annual Report.
Resolution 2:
Declaration of a ﬁnal dividend
Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount
recommended by the Directors. By passing Resolution 2, shareholders will
declare a ﬁnal dividend. The amount of the ﬁnal dividend recommended
by the Directors is 1.8 pence net per ordinary share.
Resolution 3:
Approval of Report on Remuneration
As required by section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder
approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out on pages 41 to 48.
Resolution 4:
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors
retire from ofﬁce at least once every three years but are eligible to submit
themselves for re-election by shareholders. The Directors who retire at each
Annual General Meeting are those who would otherwise have served for
over three years without re-election by the date of the following Annual
General Meeting.
Mr Johnson will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at
this year’s Annual General Meeting. Mr Johnson is Chairman of the Board
and of the Nomination Committee.
A biography of each Director, including those seeking re-election, appears
on pages 36 and 37 of the Annual Report.
Resolution 5:
Re-appointment of Auditors and Auditors’ remuneration
The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting
at which accounts are presented. Resolution 5 proposes the re-appointment
of the Company’s existing auditors, Deloitte LLP, until the next Annual
General Meeting and also gives authority to the Directors to determine
the auditors’ remuneration.
Resolution 6:
Increase in authorised share capital
The Company’s current authorised share capital is £41,000,000, and the
Company’s issued share capital as at 24 June 2009 was £39,335,589.30,
comprising 393,355,893 ordinary shares of 10 pence each. Accordingly,
in order to renew the authority to allot ordinary shares as proposed by
Resolution 7 for the full amount permitted in the latest guidelines issued by
the Association of British Insurers, it is necessary to increase the Company’s
authorised share capital. The proposed increase is of £29,000,000 by
the creation of 290,000,000 additional ordinary shares of 10 pence
each. This represents an increase of 70.73% in the authorised share
capital of the Company.
Resolution 7:
Directors’ authority to allot shares
At the Annual General Meeting held in 2008, shareholders authorised the
Directors, under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot relevant
securities without the prior consent of shareholders for a period expiring
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009 or,
if earlier, on 2 December 2009. It is proposed to renew this authority and
to authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities for a period expiring
no later than 1 November 2010.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association
of British Insurers, the proposed new authority will allow the Directors to
allot relevant securities equal to an amount of up to one-third of the Company’s
existing issued share capital (£13,111,863.10) plus, in the case of a fully
pre-emptive rights issue only, a further amount of up to an additional one-third
of the Company’s existing issued share capital (£13,111,863.10),
calculated as at 24 June 2009 (being the latest practicable date prior
to the publication of this document).
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the Directors intend to follow
emerging best practice as regards its use (including as regards the Directors
standing for re-election in certain cases) as recommended by the
Association of British Insurers.
Resolution 7 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew this authority
until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, 1 November 2010.
Resolution 8:
Directors’ power to disapply pre-emption rights
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, supplements
the Directors’ authority to allot shares in the Company (proposed by
Resolution 7). Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires a company
proposing to allot equity securities for cash to offer them ﬁrst to existing
shareholders pro rata to their existing shareholdings. Authority was granted
to the Directors at last year’s Annual General Meeting and the Directors
propose to seek shareholders’ approval to renew this authority, pursuant
to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot such securities,
notwithstanding the requirement imposed by Section 89, in two cases:
– in connection with a rights issue; and
– allotments of shares for cash up to a total nominal value of £1,966,779
(representing approximately 5% of the Company’s issued share capital
at 24 June 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to publication
of this document) although it is not intended without prior consultation
with the investment committee of the Association of British Insurers to
issue or transfer in this way more than 7.5% of the share capital in
a rolling three-year period. This gives the Directors ﬂexibility to take
advantage of business opportunities as they arise, including the sale of
any shares the Company has purchased and held in treasury, whilst the
5% limit ensures that existing shareholders’ interests are protected, and
is in line with guidelines issued by institutional investors’ bodies.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting, or, if earlier, on 1 November 2010, except in so far as commitments
to allot shares have been entered into before that date. It is the present
intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 9:
Company’s authority to purchase shares
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to
renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares
in the market. This authority gives the Company greater ﬂexibility in managing
its capital resources. The Directors have no speciﬁc intention of using this
authority and would do so only when, in the light of market conditions, they
believed that the effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings
per share, and that the purchases were in the interests of shareholders
generally. The Directors would also give careful consideration to gearing
levels of the Company and its general ﬁnancial position. The purchase
price would be paid out of distributable proﬁts. Resolution 9 speciﬁes
the maximum number of shares which may be purchased (representing
approximately 10% of the Company’s issued share capital at 24 June 2009,
being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document), the
minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought and when the
authority will expire, reﬂecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985
and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
110 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
The maximum price at which the shares may be purchased is the higher of
5% above the average of the middle market values of those shares for the
ﬁve business days before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated
by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
The Companies Act 1985 enables certain listed companies to hold shares
in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of
own shares by the Company. Shares held in treasury may subsequently be
cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards
under the Company’s share schemes. Once held in treasury, the Company
is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote
at meetings, in respect of those shares. Further, no dividend or distribution
of the Company’s assets may be made to the Company in respect of those
shares whilst held in treasury.
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 9,
the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury rather
than cancelling them. The total number of ordinary shares that are under
option through the Company’s share option schemes at 24 June 2009
(being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice) is
5,593,483 of which 4,675,676 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options over unissued
ordinary shares represented on this date was 1.19% and the proportion of
issued ordinary share capital that they will represent if the full authority to
purchase shares (existing and being sought) is used is 1.08%. The authority
will expire on 1 November 2010 or at the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting (whichever is the earlier). It is the present intention of the
Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 10:
Notice of general meetings
Resolution 10 is required in view of the implementation in the UK in August
2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive (‘SRD’). The Company’s Articles
of Association provide that it is able to call general meetings (other than
annual general meetings) on 14 clear days’ notice and the Company would
like to preserve the ability to do so. The regulation implementing the SRD
has increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to
21 days except in those cases where shareholders have approved the
calling of meetings on 14 days’ notice.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution. Under the terms of the
SRD, the resolution will be effective until the Company’s next Annual General
Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed. The
Company will need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the
SRD before it can call a general meeting on 14 days’ notice.
Recommendation
Your Directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual
General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders
and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions. The
Directors will be voting in favour of the resolutions in respect of their
own shareholdings.
IMPORTANT NOTES ABOUT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Date
Tuesday 8 September 2009
Location
Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN
Timing
The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing to
attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50am. The reception
area will be open from 11.30am, from which time refreshments will
be served.
Travel information
A map on the reverse of the Admittance Card shows the location of the
Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel and the nearest underground and
railway stations. The venue is less than ﬁve minutes’ walk from Liverpool
Street station. There are no car-parking facilities at the venue.
Admission
Please bring the Admittance Card (which is the tear-off section at the bottom
of the Form of Proxy) with you to the Meeting. You may be asked to show
the Card before being admitted to the venue. Shareholders and proxy
holders may also be required to provide proof of identity. The registration
process may take longer without these documents. Shareholders are politely
requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior
arrangement with the Company Secretary.
Facilities
The Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel has wheelchair access. If you are
planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would be
helpful if you would telephone the venue in advance on 020 7618 5618.
Enquiries and questions
Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the
Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the
Registration desk. Staff from Equiniti will be on hand to provide advice
and assistance.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 111 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
FINANCIAL DIARY
25 June 2009
Announcement of final results for the year ended 30 April 2009
12 August 2009
Ex-dividend date for final dividend
8 September 2009
Annual General Meeting
15 September 2009
Payment of final dividend
10 December 2009*
Announcement of half-year results for the six months ended 31 October 2009
27 January 2010*
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend
2 March 2010*
Payment of interim dividend
24 June 2010*
Announcement of final results for the year ended 30 April 2010
* provisional date
COMPANY WEBSITE
The Company’s website at www.dssmith.uk.com contains the latest information
for shareholders, including press releases and an updated ﬁnancial diary.
E-mail alerts of the latest news, press releases and ﬁnancial reports about
DS Smith Plc may be obtained by registering for the e-mail news alert service
on the website.
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION
The latest price of the Company’s ordinary shares is available from the
FT Cityline service. Calls within the UK are charged at 75 pence per
minute at all times. To access this service, telephone 09058 171 690.
Alternatively click onwww.londonstockexchange.com. DS Smith’s ticker
symbol is SMDS. It is recommended that you consult your ﬁnancial adviser
and verify information obtained from these services before making any
investment decision.
REGISTRARS
Please contact the Registrars at the address below to advise of a change
of address or for any enquiries relating to dividend payments, lost share
certiﬁcates or other share registration matters.
The Registrars provide on-line facilities at www.shareview.co.uk. Once you
have registered you will be able to access information on your DS Smith
Plc shareholding, update your personal details and amend your dividend
payment instructions on-line without having to call or write to the Registrars.
DIVIDENDS
Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank
or building society account should contact the Registrars. In addition, the
Registrars are now able to pay dividends in 36 foreign currencies. This
service is called ‘TAPS’ and enables the payment of your dividends directly
into your bank account in your home currency. A charge of £2.50 is
deducted from each dividend payment to cover the costs involved. Please
contact the Registrars to request further information.
SHARE DEALING SERVICES
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone and internet dealing service.
Further details including terms and rates can be obtained by logging
on to the website at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling
0845 603 7037. Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm,
Monday to Friday.
J.P.Morgan Cazenove operates a low-cost share dealing service for private
investors who wish to buy or sell ordinary shares of the Company. This is
an execution-only service and further details can be obtained from The
Share Dealing Service, J.P.Morgan Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London
EC2R 6DA. Telephone 020 7155 5155. Please note there is a minimum
transaction level of £500 for using this service.
REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce
Carolyn Cattermole
4–16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
From end August 2009:
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Registered in England No: 1377658
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
Stonecutter Court
London EC4A 4TR
Solicitors
Allen & Overy LLP
One Bishops Square
London E1 6AD
Principal clearing bank
The Royal Bank of Scotland
135 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 3UR
Stockbroker
J.P.Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Joint investment banks
J.P.Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registrars queries
UK telephone 0871 384 2197
Calls to this number will be charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT
landline. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary.
Overseas telephone +44 121 415 7047
On the internet at www.shareview.co.uk
112 www.dssmith.uk.com The DS Smith Plc website provides news and details of
the Group’s activities, plus links to our business sites and
up-to-date information including:
• results announcements and other press releases
• presentations
• share price data
• analysts’ coverage and forecasts
• e-mail alert service
• this and historical Annual Reports in PDF format
PRINCIPAL OFFICES VISIT US AT: www.dssmith.uk.com
BUSINESSES
DS SMITH PACKAGING
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 754 380
ST REGIS PAPER COMPANY
Kemsley Mill
Sittingbourne
Kent ME10 2TD
Telephone +44 (0) 1795 518 900
SEVERNSIDE RECYCLING
Ty Gwyrdd
11 Beddau Way
Caerphilly
Mid Glamorgan CF83 2AX
Telephone +44 (0) 2920 718 400
DS SMITH KAYSERSBERG
BP 1
11 Route Industrielle
68320 Kunheim
France
Telephone +33 (0) 3 89 72 24 00
DS SMITH PLASTICS
Butlers Leap
Clifton Road
Rugby
Warwickshire CV21 3RQ
Telephone +44 (0) 1788 532 861
SPICERS
Sawston
Cambridge CB22 3JG
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 822 000
GROUP
DS SMITH PLC
4–16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
From end August 2009:
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400
Published by Black Sun Plc +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
Printed by the colourhouse
This report is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk which is
produced from 50% recovered ﬁbre and 50% virgin
ﬁbre. This paper is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
Mixed Sources accredited. This material can be
disposed of by recycling. DS SMITH PLC
4–16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Fax +44 (0) 20 7932 5003
From end August 2009:
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400
Fax +44 (0) 1628 583 401
E-mail ir@dssmith.co.uk
www.dssmith.uk.com
