 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010
DS SMITH PLC
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400
Fax +44 (0) 1628 583 401
E-mail ir@dssmith.co.uk
www.dssmith.uk.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Principal Offices
CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE
DS SMITH PLC
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400
DS SMITH PACKAGING
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 754 380
ST REGIS PAPER COMPANY
Kemsley Mill
Sittingbourne
Kent ME10 2TD
Telephone +44 (0) 1795 518 900
SEVERNSIDE RECYCLING
Ty Gwyrdd
11 Beddau Way
Caerphilly
Mid Glamorgan CF83 2AX
Telephone +44 (0) 2920 718 400
DS SMITH KAYSERSBERG
BP 1
11 Route Industrielle
68320 Kunheim
France
Telephone +33 (0) 3 89 72 24 00
DS SMITH PLASTICS
Butlers Leap
Clifton Road
Rugby
Warwickshire CV21 3RQ
Telephone +44 (0) 1788 532 861
SPICERS
Sawston
Cambridge CB22 3JG
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 822 000
BUSINESSES
CONTENTS
1 Building the Business of Tomorrow
10 Focused on the Future – Interview with Miles
Roberts, DS Smith’s New Group Chief Executive
12 DS Smith Group at a Glance
14 2009/10 Highlights
15 Chairman’s Statement
16 Chief Executive’s Review
18 A Clear and Consistent Strategy
19 Our Group Key Performance Indicators
20 Description of the Group
22 Operating Review
28 Financial Review
32 Risk Management
34 Corporate Responsibility Review
BUSINESS REVIEW
An overview of our business,
strategy, performance, key
performance figures and
management statements
40 Directors and Company Secretary
42 Corporate Governance
46 Remuneration Report
56 Directors’ Report and Directors’
Responsibilities Statement
GOVERNANCE
Introducing the Board of
Directors and explaining our
approach to governance and
corporate responsibility
59 Independent Auditors’ Report
60 Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
106 Company Balance Sheet and Notes
112 Five-Year Financial Summary
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements and
notes explaining the details
of our financial performance
for the year
113 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
120 Shareholder Information
121 Principal Offices
NOTICE OF MEETING
Our notice of the annual
general meeting and
shareholder information
The DS Smith Plc website provides news and details of the Group’s activities, plus links to our business sites and up-to-date
information including:
• results announcements and other press releases
• presentations
• share price data
• analysts’ coverage and forecasts
• e-mail alert service
• this and historical Annual Reports in PDF format
VISIT US AT: www.dssmith.uk.com DS Smith is an international packaging supplier 
and office products wholesaler. It has revenue of
£2.1 billion and employs over 10,500 people in 
16 countries.
DS Smith is shaping the future of packaging. The
combination of the Group’s market-leading positions,
European growth potential, record of successful
innovation and strong customer relationships means 
that DS Smith is well positioned for the market upturn.
INNOVATING TO WIN...
BUILDING THE
BUSINESS OF
TOMORROW
GROWING OUR BUSINESS IN EUROPE
Leveraging our unrivalled depth of expertise
BUILDING ON OUR STRENGTHS
Consolidating our leading market positions
INNOVATION DRIVING GROWTH
Designing with the customer in mind
FIRST CHOICE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Building partnerships with our largest customers
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 1 2 www.dssmith.uk.com
BUSINESS REVIEW
INNOVATION 
DRIVING GROWTH
Computer-aided design is used to create
the best box for the job. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 3
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
DELIVERING SUCCESS IN LOGISTICS AS WELL AS PACKAGING
DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Rawcliffe
and Rapak create sustainable packaging
for lubricants.
DS Smith Packaging takes a holistic
approach to pack performance, merging
the search for lower costs at every stage of
customers’ packing operations and supply
chains, with a detailed understanding of
product promotion through compelling
presentation of our customers’ products.
Recent innovations, combining new pack
structures and cutting-edge design from 
DS Smith Packaging with the latest high
performance materials from St Regis
Paper, are achieving excellent results,
often involving less paper than was
previously specified. 
Since every customer is different, technical
representatives from DS Smith perform a
careful audit of how each pack will be
used, from inbound receipt, to use on
automated packing lines and through 
all stages of distribution, right up to the
display of products in the supermarket 
and recycling after use.
Significant reductions in supply chain cost
can be achieved, especially in relation to
the cost of the packaging. For instance,
good pack design can prevent loss and
damage, whilst sharply reducing the
number of loads, both for deliveries of
packaging and for distribution of packed
goods. Savings are generated through
waste prevention, less handling, taking
lorries off the road and fewer delivery
miles. The same improvements translate
directly into lower carbon footprints for
customers. Optimising packaging material
can offer further footprint reductions.
In a recent example, collaboration with 
a large customer eliminated 26% of the
journeys made to deliver products, with
correspondingly less materials handling
and less need for storage space. 
Technical innovation reduced the
customer’s product overall packaging
weight by almost 600 tonnes per annum,
whilst providing a better print finish to
promote the product to consumers. 
Sustainable packaging for lubricants
DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Rawcliffe
and Rapak have helped develop a 
new bag-in-box packaging system for
lubricants. The project was part of a drive
towards using more sustainable raw
materials for the packaging of oil-based
products. The new packaging has a 
lower environmental impact than the
previous rigid plastic container. The outer
box is made from recycled material and 
is easy to recycle. The bag inside the 
box produces only a sixth of the waste 
of the previous container. In addition, 
the new pack shape is cubic rather than
round, so that 20% more filled product 
can be distributed on each pallet. 
For one customer alone, this means 
200 fewer lorry movements each year.
The innovative design achieves a major
reduction in costs, supports environmental
objectives and makes storage and
transport more efficient.
Designing with the
customer in mind BUSINESS REVIEW
FIRST CHOICE FOR 
OUR CUSTOMERS
4 www.dssmith.uk.com
Building partnerships 
with our largest customers
UNRIVALLED DEPTH 
AND EXPERIENCE
Severnside works with M&S 
and DS Smith Tri-Wall
In 2007, retailer Marks & Spencer (M&S)
launched Plan A, a list of ethical and
environmental commitments involving all 
areas of its business. M&S wanted to reduce
significantly the amount of waste it sends to
landfill. From packaging and plastics, through 
to cardboard and food, the retailer wanted to 
find more sustainable solutions for its waste. 
The target set was to send no waste to landfill 
by 2012. To achieve this target, M&S needed 
to transform its waste management processes. 
Its first step was to appoint a waste management
partner who focused on sustainable solutions
rather than landfill. Market-leading sustainable
waste management company Severnside
Recycling, a company with a long tradition 
of working in the retail sector, was chosen.
One of the most important areas for primary focus
was organic waste. As out-of-date food is required
to be disposed of, traditionally through landfill or
by expensive treatment processes, an effective
solution was required. It was important to find 
a process that would allow organic waste to 
be separated from all other types of materials.
Severnside turned to sister company DS Smith 
Tri-Wall for support.
DS Smith Tri-Wall developed a large box with an
integral bag, erected on a dolly, which integrated
easily into the M&S logistics system. The bulk 
box and bag were tested extensively and the
designs optimised to ensure there was no risk of
leakage of food waste during transport or storage.
The new waste management process makes use 
of M&S’ existing logistics operation and takes 
the waste to the regional distribution centres
where it is then collected, sorted and reprocessed
by Severnside or its strategic partner, Shanks 
Waste Management. Organic waste is now
converted into renewable energy via biomass-
to-energy plants.
DS Smith Tri-Wall’s specially designed box to
handle food waste from M&S stores. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 5
DesignRight = better display + less raw
material + stronger boxes + lower costs 
+ lower CO
2
.
We have created a set of business tools in order 
to help customers save money, cut carbon
emissions and support their sales. DesignRight
starts right at the beginning of the process. 
First we design a box that displays the products 
it contains to maximum advantage. By using 
high-performance lightweight corrugated material, 
we can design a stronger box using less material.
Being stronger, the boxes can be stacked higher 
– as in the example shown in the picture above,
which means that more products can be moved 
in each lorry-load, cutting fuel costs and carbon
emissions for our customers.
DESIGNRIGHT TOOLS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
GROWING OUR 
BUSINESS IN EUROPE
NEW IMPACT AND INNOVATION
CENTRE IN FRANCE
In the past two years, DS Smith Kaysersberg
further developed its marketing strategy to
concentrate on the fast-moving consumer goods
(FMCG) market. A long-established expert in the
field of industrial packaging design, the business
chose to redevelop its existing showroom and
create a much more powerful centre to showcase
the skills and the resources it can bring to
providing innovative design for customers looking
for help with brand promotion, supply chain
optimisation, costs and environmental issues.
The French Impact and Innovation Centre was
opened in December 2009 and benefited from
the experience of sister company DS Smith
Packaging, which had constructed its own 
Impact and Innovation Centre at Ely in
Cambridgeshire in 2008. The UK Centre 
hosted its one hundredth group of visitors in
November 2009. Both centres have received 
very positive feedback from customers.
Leveraging our unrivalled
depth of expertise
6 www.dssmith.uk.com
DS Smith Packaging’ s Impact and Innovation
Centre at Ely in the UK.
DS Smith Kaysersberg’ s Impact and
Innovation Centre at St Just in France. SPICERS’ GROWTH IN EUROPE
In France, Spicers has built its success on its two
dealer brands, Plein Ciel and Calipage, which
account for over half of sales. These are the 
best known office supply brands in the country.
Plein Ciel has grown strongly in recent years,
increasing from 136 resellers in 2001, to 225 
by March 2010. It has over 200 stationery 
shops, including 14 hyperstores.
Calipage was launched by Spicers in 1995 and
now comprises over 300 sites. The Calipage
model has been adapted for other national
markets and was launched in Belgium in early
2009 and in Spain in early 2010. By the end 
of the financial year 2009/10, there were 19
Calipage dealers in Belgium and 128 in Spain.
Further growth is planned in the coming year.
One of Plein Ciel’ s stores.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 7
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING 8 www.dssmith.uk.com
BUSINESS REVIEW
BUILDING ON OUR STRENGTHS
A REVOLUTION IN PACKAGING
DS Smith will continue to drive forward its strategy
of growth in Europe. With over 100 sites in
Europe the Group has firm foundations, leading
positions and excellent prospects for future
growth. In the UK, the Group is already the 
largest producer of recycled paper, the largest
recycling group and the leading manufacturer 
of corrugated packaging. We have strong
corrugated packaging operations in France, 
Italy and Poland, and there is room for further
growth in all these markets. The key area of 
focus will be the retail-ready packaging market. 
SUPPORTING BRANDS
For our customers, like Cadbury, protecting a
brand’s identity is an absolutely critical aspect of
marketing. The confectioner has developed ink
standards for its iconic colours so they can be
reproduced accurately anywhere in the world.
Using ImageRight, our people make sure that 
the colour is right, and that it remains right as
each order is printed. We have also invested in
spectrophotometers – devices which measure
colour digitally rather than by eye – which 
means we achieve consistent, repeatable colour,
regardless of where a job is printed. The new
Cadbury factory at Skarbimierz in Poland will
make many familiar brands such as Crunchie,
Chomp and Curly Wurly, so it is vital that 
we can rely on our technology to ensure that, 
no matter where the packaging is produced, 
it will meet Cadbury’s high specifications.
Consolidating our leading
market positions
Our customers want the colours on the box to
match the products inside.
KEY
UK Paper & 
Corrugated Packaging
Continental European
Corrugated Packaging
Plastic Packaging
Spicers DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 9
DS SMITH KAYSERSBERG CONSTRUCTS A GREEN PALLET 
FOR A GREEN PRODUCT
A leading supplier of photovoltaic solar panels approached DS Smith Kaysersberg
(DSSK) with a particular request. A product with such strong environmental credentials
needed special packaging. The solution had to be strong enough to protect its fragile
cargo, cost-competitive, lightweight in order to facilitate the handling and to be fully
recyclable. DSSK was able to deliver a specially designed cardboard pallet weighing
only 5kg, but able to support a load of up to 350kg. The customer was so pleased that
each product shipped included information explaining the nature of the design of the
pallet, its reduced carbon footprint and its recyclability.
DS SMITH PACKAGING – ‘COOL’ IN MORE THAN ONE WAY
Following success at the UK Packaging Awards in 2009, when DS Smith Packaging
became Environmental Company of the Year, its speciality plant at Belper in Derbyshire
won the Gold Standard Green Apple Award in recognition of an innovative project
called ‘The Environmental Benefits of Cool Corrugating’. The essence of the project is 
to run the corrugators at lower temperatures and involves some complex technological
developments on the machines. The outcome was a reduction in carbon emissions of 
400 tonnes per annum and an improvement in board quality that has led to a reduction
in waste levels throughout the business.
DS SMITH PLASTICS REPLEN CREATES REUSABLE 
WHEELED PALLET
DS Smith Replen, a specialist in returnable transit packaging, has created an ingenious
solution for the international grocery industry. The K-Roll wheeled pallet is made of
lightweight material. It functions both as a pallet in the supply chain, and a dolly in 
the store. With a specially designed handle and runners that lift to expose the wheels, 
it is easy to manoeuvre, but can be locked down when stationary.
SPICERS FOCUSES ON ON-LINE SALES ACROSS EUROPE
Spicers has been working to expand its offering to the growing on-line market for 
office products. In the UK, Spicers has been developing its business with London-based
Euroffice, now one of its top customers. Spicers UK and Spicers Italy were able to 
work together to support Euroffice’s expansion into continental Europe. In 2010, 
Spicers Germany began to supply Conrad Elektronik, the leading European multichannel
supplier in the electronics sector, which operates in ten countries across Europe.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
Focused on the Future
10 www.dssmith.uk.com
AN INTERVIEW WITH MILES ROBERTS, DS SMITH’S
NEWLY-APPOINTED GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
What attracted you to DS Smith?
I think there is considerable potential here at 
DS Smith to create a focused, growing business
that will deliver higher, more consistent 
financial returns.
The current business operates in many markets
and product and service categories; some of
which display the sort of characteristics that
provide the opportunity to create sustainable value
for our customers and therefore our employees
and shareholders. For example, our retail-ready
packaging business has achieved consistent
growth and better returns for many years as
retailers and fast-moving consumer goods
companies seek packaging suppliers that can
improve the efficiency of their distribution chain
whilst developing the in-store appearance of their
products. DS Smith has developed a considerable
degree of competence in this area across Europe.
Do you see areas of differentiation?
A key theme within DS Smith is sustainability. 
The communities in which we operate focus
increasingly on the environmental impact of their
behaviour and actions. All the paper we make is
produced from recycled material and over 80% of
the boxes we make are made of recycled paper
and are fully recyclable themselves. In the UK, 
DS Smith has a uniquely vertically-integrated
position as a waste paper collector, recycled paper
manufacturer and corrugated box producer. It takes
just 14 days to collect used boxes from a retailer,
recycle the boxes into paper and produce a new
box delivered back to the retailer – this speed
combined with the 100% recyclability element
cannot be matched by other packaging formats.
Do you see opportunities for growth?
DS Smith has developed various strong market
positions, some with considerable scale. 
Others, whilst smaller, have good market 
positions in regions of Europe that are expected 
to grow well ahead of the average for Europe 
and in customer segments that show consistent
growth opportunity and higher margins, due to 
the significant degree of added value.
To achieve sustainable returns the Group will 
need to become more focused. We have recently
disposed of two small businesses that were 
sub-scale or did not operate in attractive markets. 
How we achieve greater focus will become
clearer as we develop our Group strategy 
over the coming months. 
“This is a business that has
tremendous strength and
competitive advantages. 
We are well positioned to
grow our higher margin
operations in the UK and
across continental Europe.” DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 11
What do you think DS Smith’ s 
customers want?
Customer service will be one of our key
performance indicators and we will need to
ensure we operate at the highest levels of any
supplier in our markets. This, combined with
increasing focus on innovation and quality, will
add further value for our customers and provide us
with a greater degree of competitive advantage.
There are always opportunities to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of an organisation.
Changing and challenging markets demand
product and service innovation. Successful
development primarily depends on understanding
the customers’ current and future requirements. 
Our customers are seeking services and products
that reduce their internal costs but support their 
own growth; service scope, product appearance,
weight, environmental impact, cost and distribution
are key themes. DS Smith has a strong track 
record in innovation. An example is the Impact 
and Innovation Centre (IIC) opened in December
last year at St Just in France. This builds on the
success of the first IIC established at Ely in the UK 
in 2008. At these sites we can demonstrate to our
customers and retailers how we can enhance the
appearance of their products and the efficiency 
of their distribution systems with minimal impact 
on the environment. Other examples include the
expansion within our waste recycling business of
services offered to our retail customers that include
the administration of all their waste disposal to
ensure minimal environmental impact and near-
zero landfill. 
Product development will be an increasing demand
from our customers and we are well positioned to
meet this.
What are some of the key issues 
for DS Smith?
During the last year, the Group has successfully
undertaken a restructuring programme that
reduced costs in the face of the severe downturn 
in the global economy. We work in very
competitive markets where scale and resulting
efficiency are essential to meet our customers’
demands. Our operating standards, structures 
and processes throughout the Group are clear but
we must ensure that our internal culture engages
and motivates all our colleagues in the pursuit 
of operational excellence through continuous
improvement. This is a ‘must do’ for us.
Since joining DS Smith at the start of May, I have
been visiting many of our businesses to listen 
and learn about the skills and capabilities of the
Group and the ideas for improvements. A culture
that supports the continuous development of the
business by encouraging all staff to be involved
and contribute to our success is an essential
ingredient of any winning business. We will 
build on the enthusiasm and commitment I have
seen across the Group. This enthusiasm will be
harnessed through improved communication, 
a clear set of principles and the continuing
development of all staff. 
What are your ambitions for DS Smith?
The first step was to go out and learn about the
businesses and the people in the Group. The next
step will be to focus on our strategic planning –
work being undertaken by a group of senior
managers drawn from across all divisions. 
The objective is to create a business that is more
focused, producing higher, more sustainable 
and consistent returns; the plan to achieve this
objective will be completed over the coming
months. It is already clear that there are a number
of strong opportunities.
This plan will be built on sectors that offer growth,
where customers demand excellent customer
service and support, product and service
development and where we can deliver at the
most efficient cost to customers. This will be
achieved by creating a culture that engages
everyone in the achievement of our results. 
A culture that
supports the
continuous
development of 
the business by
encouraging all 
staff to be involved
and contribute to 
our success is an
essential ingredient
of any winning
business.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING 12 www.dssmith.uk.com
WASTE PAPER
Division Group overview
PAPER
CORRUGATED PACKAGING
www.severnside.com
www.stregis.co.uk
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
www.dssmith-plastics.com
www.dssmith-packaging.com
www.dssmith-kaysersberg.com
see page 24
www.spicerseurope.com
CORRUGATED PACKAGING
AND PAPER
RETURNABLE TRANSIT
PACKAGING (RTP)
LIQUID PACKAGING AND
DISPENSING (LP&D)
see page 25
see page 26
PACKAGING
Market
No.1 UK waste recycling
company and a provider of
waste management services.
No.1 UK producer; leader in
recycled corrugated case
material and plasterboard liner.
No.1 UK supplier; 70% to 
the fast-moving consumer 
goods sector.
Well-established positions in
France, Italy and Poland; a
leader in heavy-duty packaging,
growing strongly in the fast-
moving consumer goods sector.
Smaller operations in Czech
Republic and Slovakia.
The Group has an associate
business in Ukraine.
A leading European supplier 
of beverage crates, reusable
containers and extruded sheet.
No. 2 globally in bag-in-box
systems and taps.
Leading office products supplier
in UK, Ireland, France and
Benelux with growing positions 
in Germany, Spain and Italy.
£35.4 million
(2009: £36.5 million)
Contribution to adjusted 
operating profit
£22.9 million
(2009: £30.4 million)
£15.5 million
(2009: £7.0 million)
£20.2 million
(2009: £20.1 million)
see page 27
UK PAPER AND
CORRUGATED
A leading position 
in the whole 
UK corrugated
packaging supply
chain – enabling 
total recyclability
CONTINENTAL
EUROPEAN
CORRUGATED 
Strong positions 
in chosen national
markets, principally
in corrugated
packaging; 
also produces
speciality paper
PLASTIC
Focused on two
plastic packaging
markets
SPICERS
The leading
European office
products
wholesaler —
Spicers — supplies 
a comprehensive
range of own-label
and branded
products
BUSINESS REVIEW
DS Smith Group at a Glance
www.dssmith-plastics.com
OFFICE PRODUCTS
WHOLESALER
39%
24%
16%
21% DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 13
Areas of operation
OUR CORRUGATED PACKAGING SUPPLY CHAIN
DS SMITH – UK
Annual volume
(‘000 tonnes)
SEVERNSIDE
RECYCLING
Waste paper
collected – 1,700
ST REGIS PAPER
CCM – 750
Other speciality
papers – 250
DS SMITH
PACKAGING
Boxes and
board – 600
DS SMITH –
CONTINENTAL
EUROPE
Annual volume
(‘000 tonnes)
DS SMITH
KAYSERSBERG
France 
Solid board 
and speciality
papers – 180
DS SMITH
KAYSERSBERG
France, Italy,
Poland, Czech
Republic and
Slovakia
Boxes and 
board – 560
WASTE PAPER
PAPER (CORRUGATED 
CASE MATERIAL – CCM)
CORRUGATED 
PACKAGING (BOXES)
USA
Europe
Australasia
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING • Robust performance in challenging markets
• EBITDA up 1.3% to £166.0 million
• Adjusted earnings per share up 2.4% 
to 12.9 pence 
• Strong cash ﬂow generation drives net debt
down £52.0 million to £239.5 million
• Full-year dividend increased by 4.5% to 
4.6 pence per share
• Successful implementation of 2008/09 
cost reduction plan
• The Group has continued to build its 
market position in corrugated packaging 
for the fast-moving consumer goods sector
across Europe
• Review of strategy and business 
operations launched
BUSINESS REVIEW
2009/10 Highlights
14 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
2009/10 2008/09
Revenue – £m 2,070.6 2,106.6
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
1
– £m 68.3 72.5
Proﬁt before tax – £m 55.0 16.8
Adjusted earnings per share
2
– pence 12.9 12.6
Earnings/(loss) per share – pence 9.7 (3.0)
Adjusted return on average capital employed
3
–% 9.7% 9.3%
Free cash inﬂow
4
– £m 76.8 59.9
Net debt/adjusted EBITDA
3
– times 1.4x 1.8x
Total dividend per share – pence 4.6 4.4
1 before exceptional charge of £13.3m (2008/09: £55.7m)
2 before after-tax exceptional charge of £12.4m (2008/09: £61.1m)
3 before exceptional charge of £13.3m (2008/09: £50.6m)
4 before net acquisitions/(disposals) of equity in subsidiaries, exceptional cash costs and dividends
9.7%
2009: 9.3%
Adjusted return on
average capital
employed
8.0%
2009: 7.8%
Adjusted 
EBITDA margin
12.9p
2009: 12.6p
Adjusted earnings
per share 
1.4 times
2009: 1.8 times
Net debt/ 
adjusted EBITDA In last year’s annual report I stated that the work
done to refocus the business over recent years
would make it more resilient. Our results for 
the year are testament to that. The fast-moving
consumer goods sector, which is our major 
market for retail-ready packaging, weathered the
downturn better than other sectors. The focus on
innovation in both products and services, and 
our expertise in recycling and solving customers’
packaging problems allowed us to make
significant progress.
Adjusted operating profit of £94.0 million 
matched the previous year and adjusted 
earnings per share advanced 2.4% to 
12.9 pence (2008/09: 12.6 pence). 
The Board has decided to recommend a final
dividend for 2009/10 of 3.1 pence per share
(2008/09: 1.8 pence) which, together with the
interim dividend of 1.5 pence, gives a total
dividend for the year of 4.6 pence (2008/09: 
4.4 pence). The Board recognises the importance
of dividends to shareholders and remains
committed to the payment of dividends that reflect
the sustainable earnings and cash generation of
the Group over the cycle. Future dividend policy 
is under review as part of the Group Chief
Executive’s review of strategy.
The financial and operational performance of 
the Group during the year is set out fully in the
following reports, together with an assessment 
of the risks facing the Group, its performance on
environmental and other matters of corporate
responsibility and reports on the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. The Board has
continued to maintain a strong focus on identifying
and managing risks, ensuring the Group’s 
financial position remains strong and on making
sure that it is well placed, financially and
operationally, to benefit from recovery in our
markets. An increased focus has been placed on
the business strategy and the Group’s financial
strength. The composition of the Group is being
considered by the Group Chief Executive as part
of his review. 
Parts of our business operate in attractive 
markets with long-term growth and attractive
margin potential. The challenge for the Group 
is to take full advantage of the opportunities open
to it and to deliver strong growth in shareholder
value. The Board will support the Group Chief 
Executive as he develops his plans for this in 
the coming months.
As we announced in November 2009, Tony
Thorne retired from the Board on 4 may 2010
and miles Roberts took over the role of Group
Chief Executive.
On behalf of the Board and his colleagues, 
I would like to thank Tony for his strong 
leadership of the Group over the last nine years.
The Group that he leaves behind is far better
placed and balanced than the one he joined, 
with strengthened potential. The growth in the
packaging and recycling businesses and the
development of leading positions in retail-ready
and high quality design packaging have created
a formidable position in UK packaging.
miles Roberts joins us from mcBride plc where he
led a programme to deliver significant growth and
improved profitability. In addition to this record, 
he brings considerable international experience as
well as a thorough understanding of manufacturing
and DS Smith’s packaging markets.
I am also pleased to confirm that Gareth Davis
joined our Board as a non-Executive Director on 
1 June 2010. Gareth has recently stepped down
from the role of Chief Executive of Imperial
Tobacco PLC, a Group which he led to great
success following the demerger of the company
from h anson Plc in 1996. h e has served as a
non-Executive Director since 2003 and Senior
Independent Director since 2004 of Wolseley plc.
h e brings enormous relevant experience to our
affairs. h e will take over as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee from July 2010.
Jonathan Nicholls joined the Board in December
2009 and his experience as Finance Director of
two FTSE 100 companies, h anson Plc and Old
mutual Plc, has been of great value. h e will take
over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 
July 2010.
Chairman’ s Statement
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 15
“The Group delivered a
robust performance in
2009/10 and under the
leadership of its new
Group Chief Executive 
is well placed to 
resume growth.”
Bob Beeston, who has served as a non-Executive
Director with great distinction since December
2000, will step down from the Board at the end 
of 2010, once the new Directors have their feet
firmly under the table. Bob has been an outstanding
contributor to our affairs and I would like to thank
him for his ceaseless challenge and support. 
Chris Bunker has already succeeded Bob as 
Senior Independent Director.
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our colleagues
across the world for their ongoing efforts and
commitment, particularly through these tough
times. Economic activity has improved, but the
pace of recovery remains uncertain. Actions taken
by management to date have positioned us well to
take advantage of improving economic conditions
and I am confident that further progress will be
made in the coming year.
PETER JOHNSON
Chairman
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING I am pleased to announce that in 2009/10
adjusted operating profit at £94.0 million
matched that of the previous year. All our business
segments felt the impact of lower demand for their
products and services as a result of the general
contraction in economic activity, but all were able
to mitigate this by improving efficiency. The Group
remained highly cash generative, reflecting our
ongoing focus on cash management. year-end 
net debt fell to £239.5 million (30 April 2009:
£291.5 million) providing a robust financial 
base for the Group. 
Profit before exceptional items and tax was 
£68.3 million (2008/09: £72.5 million). 
As previously advised, the Group incurred
exceptional charges in the year of £13.3 million
(2008/09: £55.7 million), of which £10.2 million
were non-cash impairment charges, principally
related to our paper and packaging operation 
in Turkey, the sale of which was announced after
the year end. 
Capital expenditure in the year of £52.6 million
(2008/09: £87.4 million) reflected the re-phasing
of the capital programme to match the change in
the economic environment and the completion of
capital expenditure on the conversion of a paper
machine in 2008/09. The Group continued to
invest for its future development: around two-thirds
of our expenditure was targeted at growth 
and maintaining and strengthening our market
positions, focusing on those areas that provide 
the most attractive returns.
The Group’s adjusted return on average capital
employed increased in 2009/10 to 9.7%
(2008/09: 9.3%), due to a lower capital base.
This compares to the Group’s estimated pre-tax
weighted average cost of capital of 11.8%. 
Looking ahead, we are undertaking a review of
our business portfolio to identify how long-term
value can best be delivered to shareholders. 
Our objective is to create a growing business that
is more focused, producing higher margins and
returns, with less cyclicality. This work is now
under way and is centred on five major themes:
• Achieving higher margins through improving 
the mix of business towards products with a
higher value-added component and less
commoditisation;
• Differentiating our offering through product
innovation and customer service;
• Raising efficiency through process design,
organisation structure and scale of our
operations;
• Building on people, with focus on personal
performance and development supported 
by an enabling culture; and
• managing carefully any implementation risks.
The results of this work will be completed later 
in 2010.
OPERATING REVIEW
Our two activities, Packaging and Office 
Products Wholesaling, are managed through 
a decentralised structure.
PACKAGING
Across Europe, demand for corrugated packaging
fell progressively through most of calendar 2009,
but began to recover modestly late in the year.
This recovery continued in the first quarter of
2010. In the fourth quarter of 2009, demand 
was up 2.9% compared with the same period in
2008, but was still 5.7% below the comparable
period for 2007. Throughout 2009, packaging
demand in the fast-moving consumer goods
(FmCG) sector held up better than in the industrial
sectors. DS Smith has benefited from actions taken
in recent years to focus on the FmCG area of the
market, which now accounts for around two-thirds
of our Packaging revenue.
In the first half of the financial year, lower demand
for corrugated packaging caused box prices to
soften, and resulted in reduced demand and
falling prices for corrugated case material (CCm)
– the paper that is used to manufacture boxes. 
In the second half of the year, the cost of waste
paper – our key raw material – rose strongly,
causing CCm prices and, in turn, box prices 
to increase. 
Profits in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
operations almost matched those of the previous
year, helped by the cost reductions achieved
through the action programme announced in
December 2008 and better productivity.
Results in our Continental European Corrugated
Packaging segment were down; gains in FmCG
packaging were more than offset by the
continuing low activity levels in the industrial
packaging sector and the impact of higher 
CCm prices.
Profits in Plastic Packaging improved markedly 
as a result of restructuring undertaken during
2008/09, implementation of the action
programme to cut costs and growth in sales 
of higher margin products. 
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In 2009/10, the UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging segment, which accounted for 36% 
of Group revenue and 55% of Group average
capital employed, reported a 4.5% decrease 
in revenue to £750.2 million (2008/09: 
£785.8 million). This reduction in revenue was
due to lower CCm and box prices, the effects of
which were partly offset by revenue from a full
year’s sales of lightweight CCm produced on 
the converted paper machine at Kemsley.
Operating profit was slightly down at 
£35.4 million (2008/09: £36.5 million),
primarily due to reduced box sales mitigated 
by the restructured, lower cost base.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’ s Review
16 www.dssmith.uk.com
“The Group is well
positioned to take 
full advantage of the
improving economy.” Our UK business is vertically integrated, from
collection of waste paper to supply the recycled
paper mills, through to the design and supply of
corrugated packaging.
Severnside Recycling, which recovers waste 
paper as the raw material for use in our paper
mills, continued to make progress, collecting an
increased quantity of paper and offering more
added-value services to a number of new 
retail customers.
Our UK paper business was significantly affected
by the impacts of lower demand and pricing for
CCm during 2009/10. margins were further put
under pressure by the rising cost of raw materials,
especially in the second half of the year. The high-
quality, lightweight CCm which we have been
producing at Kemsley since early 2009 continues
to be favourably received by customers.
Our UK corrugated packaging business produced
a good result and grew its market share on a
platform of service and innovation. Our emphasis
on the FmCG sector and higher value-added
products assisted our performance significantly,
when compared to the UK corrugated industry 
as a whole. Key investments have been made to
increase our capability to support the growth in
demand for shelf-ready packaging, improve print
quality innovation and continue the roll out of
high-performance, lighter-weight boxes.
As we enter 2010/11, we are experiencing
modest improvements in demand offset by
increasing waste paper input costs and CCm
prices. We will build on the strong market
positions achieved to date and are well 
positioned for growth. 
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
Despite an increase in sales volumes, driven 
by the encouraging performance in the final
quarter of the year, revenue was down 2.2% to
£355.4 million (2008/09: £363.4 million) due 
to lower selling prices. Operating profit decreased
to £22.9 million (2008/09: £30.4 million), as a
result of increasing CCm costs, the effect of which
was partially offset by a significant reduction in
conversion costs.
In France, our corrugated box business showed a
2% increase in sales volume, despite a flat market,
as a result of its focus on the resilient and growing
FmCG market. Despite difficult market conditions,
our Italian business performed well primarily as 
a result of its strong position in the FmCG sector.
Our Polish operation continued to focus on 
higher added-value products, gaining share in 
a broadly static market. market conditions in
Turkey remained difficult and after the year 
end, we announced the sale of the business for
£4.7 million. 
Rubezhansk, our Ukrainian associate business
continues to trade profitably and to generate 
cash. This is a substantial, vertically-integrated
packaging business with a market-leading
position, supplying the FmCG customers
principally in Ukraine and Russia. The business
has excellent long-term potential. As noted in the
Financial Review, we are continuing to work with
our partner and the lending banks to resolve the
position in relation to the external financing of 
this business.
In 2010/11, we expect margins to come under
increased pressure from higher input costs, but 
we expect to benefit from higher sales volumes.
Our priorities are to maintain good levels of
profitability through increased selling prices,
volume growth and control of costs. 
Plastic Packaging
Revenue in Plastic Packaging decreased 
by 2.4% over the year to £231.3 million
(2008/09: £236.9 million) due to lower selling
prices, following reduction in polymer costs, 
and our exit from a lower margin packaging
management contract in continental Europe.
Adjusted operating profit more than doubled 
to £15.5 million (2008/09: £7.0 million) as a
result of lower costs following the prior year’s
restructuring actions and increased sales into 
new market segments. 
Results in liquid packaging and dispensing
benefited from higher sales, particularly into new
markets in the USA. Results in Europe increased
substantially, reflecting the restructuring and cost
cutting previously mentioned, as well as higher
sales of existing products into new markets and
our focus on improving the business mix. 
Demand in the returnable transit packaging sector
continued to be weak. Sales to the construction
and automotive sectors, which fell sharply 
during 2008/09, have seen no real recovery.
Our beverage crate business, which was
significantly affected by the deferral of crate
replacement programmes, has seen a modest
increase in demand as customers have begun 
to purchase some replacements. This business
increased its profits in the year as a result of 
active management of conversion costs, low 
raw material prices in the first half of the year 
and development of products in all of the
constituent businesses.
In January 2010, we completed the sale of Demes
Logistics, a small plastics logistics business based
mainly in Germany. The business had gross assets
of €11.2 million.
In 2010/11, we expect to build further on 
the strong recovery in liquid packaging and
dispensing and to see growth in demand for 
RTP’s products. 
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 17
OFFICE PRODUCTS WhOLESALING
Overall revenue increased by 1.8% to 
£733.7 million (2008/09: £720.5 million),
reflecting lower volumes which were more than
offset by the effect of the depreciation of sterling
against the euro. The trading environment was
better than expected given the substantial
economic slow-down in the major markets we
serve. An increase in sales of electronic office
supplies (EOS), was partly offset by lower sales 
in traditional office products.
In Spicers UK, revenue fell marginally. Non-EOS
sales declined for the first three quarters of the
year then began to recover in the final quarter.
EOS sales grew modestly. Operating profit was
higher than last year, benefiting from actions to 
cut costs and improve the sales mix.
In the continental European businesses, which
account for just over half of Spicers’ total revenue,
profit was flat. Operating results in France,
Germany and the Benelux region matched or
exceeded last year and Italy put in a strong
performance. Trading was difficult in Ireland and
Spain where, in both countries, the economic
downturn has had a significant effect.
In 2010/11, we will focus on improving our
overall sales, primarily in traditional office
products, and on tight cost control. We believe
that Spicers is well placed to take advantage of
improving economic conditions, due to its strong
market positions.
OUR PEOPLE
I have been hugely impressed by the dedication
and commitment of the employees of DS Smith
during my early visits to the businesses. It is clear
that we have skilful, enthusiastic and creative
people who have worked hard to support the
Company through recent difficult times. I thank
them for all they have done to date and look
forward to working with them in the future.
OUTLOOK
Trading in the current financial year has started
well and is in line with our expectations. We are
experiencing increasing sales volumes due to the
continuing recovery in market conditions. We are
also benefiting from the success of our service and
product offering.
MILES ROBERTS
Group Chief Executive
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
A Clear and Consistent Strategy
18 www.dssmith.uk.com
OUR VISION
OUR GOALS
• Understand, monitor and effectively manage risks to our businesses
PACKAGING
• Build our sales to fast-moving consumer goods and
industrial customers across Europe
• Focus on innovation to drive growth
• Further develop our capabilities to offer recyclable,
lower environmental impact packaging to meet
increasing demand
• Grow both organically and through acquisition
• Increase exposure to corrugated packaging
• Selectively increase our presence in growth markets
in Eastern Europe
• Develop our internal Group culture to support 
our employees 
• Enhance customer service
• Boost our efﬁciency through operating improvement
and cost reduction
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
• Expand the product range
• Strengthen presence in the markets in which we 
have signiﬁcant market share and build operations 
in the markets in which we are under-represented
• Continue to drive efﬁciency and enhance proﬁts
• Invest in staff to support best-in-class customer service 
see page 32
see page 22 see page 27
RISK MANAGEMENT
• maintain high standards in the way we conduct our business with respect to the health and safety of our
employees, the communities in which we work and by paying due regard to our impact on the environment 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
OPERATING STRATEGY
see page 34 
• To be the supplier of choice of packaging solutions in our chosen markets across Europe
• To deliver great value to customers
• To deliver to shareholders a growing business with enhanced margins and returns on capital employed
• To build on Spicers’ position as the leading pan-European wholesaler of ofﬁce products
To be the leading supplier of high-performance sustainable packaging designed to enhance
our customers’ products DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 19
Our Group Key Performance Indicators at a Glance
Target
To achieve an adjusted return 
on average capital employed
over the business cycle that is
comfortably in excess of the
Group’s weighted average cost
of capital, which we estimate 
to be 11.8% (before tax).
Definition
Operating profit before
exceptional items divided by
average capital employed,
expressed as a percentage.
9.7%
2009: 9.3%
Adjusted return on average
capital employed
Target
To generate an adjusted EBITDA
margin which enables us to pay
our dividends while providing
funds for development.
Definition
Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptional items divided
by revenue, expressed as a
percentage.
8.0%
2009: 7.8%
Adjusted EBITDA margin
Target
To achieve an improved
adjusted earnings per share
between one business cycle 
and the next.
Definition
Net profit attributable to
shareholders before exceptional
items divided by the weighted
average number of shares
outstanding (see note 8 on 
page 76).
12.9 pence
2009: 12.6 pence
Adjusted earnings per share
Target
To maintain a healthy balance
sheet, sufficient to support 
our dividend through the
business cycle.
Definition
Net debt divided by 
earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptional items.
1.4 times
2009: 1.8 times
Net debt/adjusted EBITDA
Our strategy to focus on faster-growing,
high value-added products has
contributed to our robust performance 
in 2009/10 and will enable us to benefit
from improving economic conditions.
GROUP STRATEGY
Our objective is to create businesses that 
are more focused, producing higher, more
sustainable and consistent returns. We have a
number of strong opportunities. We will build
our businesses in sectors that offer growth,
where customers demand excellent customer
service and support, as well as product and
service development and where we can deliver
at the most efficient cost to customers. This will
be delivered by creating a culture that engages
all colleagues in the achievement of our results.
PACKAGING 
In the UK, we will maintain our leadership
positions in all three parts of the corrugated
packaging supply chain, through both organic
development and acquisition. We believe that 
a combination of scale and the interaction
between our three businesses will allow us to 
meet our target of generating an adjusted return
on average capital employed over the business 
cycle in excess of the cost of capital.
Our Continental European Corrugated Packaging
business is a market leader in heavy-duty industrial
packaging, a high value-added product which 
we supply competitively to both local and export
markets. We will mirror our successful UK strategy
of increasing exposure to retail-ready packaging
and the FmCG market in Europe, which we
expect to grow significantly more quickly than 
the overall market for packaging. 
In our Plastic Packaging business we are focused
on two sectors: Returnable Transit Packaging (RTP)
and Liquid Packaging and Dispensing (LP&D). 
The RTP market is highly fragmented but we have
built good positions in our selected market sectors.
We are number two globally in LP&D with 
leading market positions in Europe, the USA 
and Australasia.
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
Our strategy is to be a pan-European, highly
efficient wholesaler of office products. 
Our primary aim is to support our network of
dealers in growing their share of the market. 
In the short-term our emphasis will be on: 
raising profits substantially in the UK and Ireland;
strengthening further our market positions in the
continental European markets in which we have
an established position; and extending our
businesses in our developing markets, especially
Germany and Italy.
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
Our aim is to generate enhanced returns and cash
flows for our investors over the longer term, while
maintaining a strong balance sheet. We will do
this through concentrating on higher return, higher
growth business areas and ensuring that our
products and services are low cost and provide
high added-value.
9.3
9.7
2009 2010
7.8
8.0
2009 2010
12.6
12.9
2009 2010
1.8
1.4
2009 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
Description of the Group
DS Smith – international packaging supplier 
and ofﬁce products wholesaler
20 www.dssmith.uk.com
see page 24
see page 25
see page 26
UK PAPER AND
CORRUGATED
A leading position in the 
whole UK corrugated 
packaging supply chain
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPEAN CORRUGATED
Strong positions in chosen 
national markets, principally
in corrugated packaging; 
also produces speciality paper
PLASTIC
Focused on two plastic 
packaging markets
SPICERS
The leading European office
products wholesaler — Spicers —
supplies a comprehensive range of
own-label and branded products
This segment comprises three businesses:
Severnside Recycling, which collects waste
paper and other materials for recycling; St Regis
Paper, which processes the waste paper to
produce recycled paper, the majority of which 
is corrugated case material (CCM) used in 
the manufacture of corrugated packaging; 
and DS Smith Packaging, which converts 
CCM into corrugated board and boxes. 
These three businesses operating in the
corrugated packaging supply chain are heavily
interdependent, although all three maintain
open-market positions to ensure competitiveness. 
Severnside Recycling is the leading UK
collector and merchant of waste paper, 
the principal raw material for producing
recycled paper. In total, annually it sources
1.7 million tonnes of waste paper by means
of collections through its 15 UK depots and
open-market purchases from supermarkets
and third-party waste merchants. In addition,
Severnside’s facilities management function
provides general recycling and waste
disposal services for customers in a number
of sectors. 
In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg
produces 0.64 billion square metres per annum
of corrugated packaging at 12 factories located
in France, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic and
Slovakia. The bulk of its CCM requirements are
sourced from third parties. It has estimated
market shares of 4% in France, 5% in Italy and
8% in Poland. The business has been growing
strongly in Poland. 
DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million
tonnes of recycled paper (principally solid
board for use in the manufacture of detergent
boxes) at two mills in France. DS Smith also
owns 49.6% of the leading paper and
corrugated packaging business in Ukraine;
the results of this business are reported 
under associates. 
DS Smith Plastics holds a major European
position in industrial returnable transit
packaging (RTP) and is a leading worldwide
supplier of liquid packaging and dispensing
systems (LP&D). 
The Group is a leading European supplier 
of RTP. Its extensive product range includes
reusable containers, boxes and pallet systems,
injection-moulded crates and semi-ﬁnished
extruded sheet. These products are supplied to
the automotive, beverage, pharmaceutical and
other markets from ten locations in the 
UK, France, Belgium, Spain, Poland 
and Slovakia. 
In LP&D, it is ranked as number two 
globally in bag-in-box packaging systems
and injection-moulded taps and dispensers,
which are supplied worldwide to the soft
drinks, wine, food and other industry sectors
from 11 locations in the UK, Germany,
Bulgaria, Slovakia, the USA, Australia 
and New Zealand. 
Spicers is the number one European wholesaler
of office products; it has leading positions 
in the UK, Ireland, France and the Benelux
region, and it is building its position in
continental Europe with development 
businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy. 
Its network of distribution centres comprises: 
UK – 8; Ireland – 1; France – 6; Benelux – 1;
Germany – 2; Spain – 2; and Italy – 1. 
Spicers provides a wholesaling service to 
its customer base of office products dealers
and resellers, who principally supply small
and medium-sized offices. It supplies
approximately 11,500 dealers throughout
Europe and no single dealer customer
accounts for more than 4% of Spicers’ total
revenue. Spicers’ product range supplied
across Europe, of up to 22,000 product lines
in each country, comprises its own 5-Star
see page 27
OFFICE PRODUCTS
WHOLESALING
PACKAGING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 21
Severnside’s main sources of waste paper
include large supermarket groups and
other retailers, other commercial and 
industrial organisations and local authorities.
The largest single source of waste paper
accounts for 16% of the total amount sourced.
Severnside particularly concentrates on 
sourcing used corrugated packaging, referred 
to as old corrugated containers (OCC), which 
is the most suitable form of waste paper for
producing recycled CCm. Severnside supplies
all of the 1.2 million tonnes of waste paper
required by the St Regis paper mills and it sells
0.5 million tonnes on the open market. 
St Regis’ four paper mills produce approximately
1.0 million tonnes of 100% recycled paper. 
St Regis is the leading UK producer of CCm,
which accounts for over 75% of the paper it
produces, and is a leading European producer
of plasterboard liner, which accounts for
approximately 15% of its production; the
remainder comprises other speciality paper
grades. The Group’s Corrugated Packaging
operations account for around 40% of St Regis’
CCm sales. St Regis’ external sales are made to
over 300 customers; no single external customer
accounts for more than 5% of the Group’s total
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue. 
DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion square
metres per annum of corrugated packaging at
30 factories located throughout the UK. It is the
leading supplier of corrugated packaging to the
UK market with a market share of around 25%.
Approximately 70% of sales go into the
fast-moving consumer goods (FmCG) sector,
predominantly for food and beverages, 
with the remainder being principally for the 
consumer durables, industrial or trade sectors.
DS Smith Packaging supplies many of the
leading FmCG companies; no individual
customer accounts for more than 3% of the total
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
The Group’s Continental European Corrugated
Packaging operations are particularly strong 
in heavy-duty and litho-laminated packaging.
Approximately 45% of sales are to the 
FmCG sector and the remainder is to the
consumer durables, industrial and other sectors.
This segment has a large and diverse range of
customers, none of which accounts individually
for more than 6% of Continental European
Corrugated Packaging’s total revenue. 
Additionally, the segment contains a
development business, StePac, based in Israel,
which specialises in modiﬁed atmosphere
packaging for preserving the quality of fresh 
fruit and vegetables in transit. 
The division purchases a wide range of polymers
and plastic ﬁlms, principally polypropylene, 
high density polyethylene and polycarbonate.
This segment has a widely spread customer 
base and no single customer accounts for more
than 3% of DS Smith Plastics’ total revenue. 
brand and other branded products of traditional
stationery items, electronic office supplies, 
office furniture, janitorial supplies and office
catering and vending provisions. Its range
is communicated to its dealers and the offices
they supply through printed catalogues and
electronic systems; orders are now principally
submitted to Spicers on-line or by other 
electronic means. 
Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day 
or an overnight, next-day delivery service; 
it also provides the dealers with marketing and
promotional support. The business is highly
transaction-intensive with approximately
720,000 line-items being processed weekly. 
The maintenance of reliable and efficient 
systems that are capable of handling the high
volume of customer orders received daily, either
on-line or by telephone, is a key feature of the
business. Spicers’ business model is explained
further on page 27. 
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING Paper and Corrugated
Packaging Market Overview
THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING MARKET
The European market for corrugated packaging 
in 2009 is estimated to have been approximately
33 billion square metres
1
, equivalent to circa 
17.5 million tonnes, of which the UK market is
estimated to be 10%. Demand for corrugated
packaging is principally influenced by overall
economic activity and manufacturing output. 
In the calendar year 2009, the European market
for corrugated packaging, measured in square
metres, declined by 6.7%. Demand in western
Europe fell by 7.7% and within this the UK market
fell by 8.1%. Demand in eastern and central
Europe fared slightly better and was down by
0.9% in 2009. Owing to cost and environmental
pressures, there is a continuing emphasis in 
most markets on reducing the average weight of
packaging. As a result, European demand, when
measured by weight, declined by 7.0% and the
UK market, which is at the forefront of the ‘light-
weighting’ trend, fell by 10.1%. Across Europe,
demand was weak, in line with the economic
downturn, especially in the first half of the year.
The first quarter in 2010 has seen an improvement
in demand and this trend is expected to continue
as the year progresses.
Usage of corrugated packaging (boxes) for the
fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector,
which accounts for approximately two-thirds of 
the corrugated market, has been affected by the
slow-down in retail demand but has remained
significantly stronger than that for industrial market
sectors. Demand from the FMCG sector continues
to benefit from the trend towards the use of retail-
ready packaging (RRP), which can be readily
converted from its initial role as a protective transit
pack into a box or tray that can be placed on
display in the retail store. RRP benefits retailers 
by reducing the manual work involved in loading
goods onto store shelves and reducing the amount
of damage to goods in store, while enabling
products to be presented more attractively. 
RRP requires more sophisticated packaging
manufacturing capabilities for cutting, printing 
and gluing the corrugated board to form the 
more complicated box structures. The increased
proportion of these higher value-added boxes,
often requiring multi-passes within the production
process, has contributed to capacity utilisation
across the corrugated industry remaining higher
than would be indicated by the overall level 
of demand.
Usage of corrugated packaging for the home
delivery of products continues to grow in
association with the growth of purchasing through
the internet. In contrast, the usage of boxes in most
industrial manufacturing sectors has been severely
affected by the sharp downturn in industrial
activity throughout Europe. Demand from the
automotive, construction and chemical industries
has been particularly weak.
Within the overall weaker market for boxes there
is a continuing strong trend towards the greater
use of lighter-weight corrugated packaging. 
This trend is being driven not only by the
continuing pressure through the supply chain to
reduce the cost of packaging but also the
increased attention being given to the quantity
and type of packaging being used in order to
reduce the amount of waste going to landfill.
Corrugated packaging is fully recyclable and the
trend towards use of lighter-weight boxes has
been enabled by the increasing availability of
high-quality lightweight recycled corrugated case
material (CCM) with good strength characteristics.
This lightweight CCM allows box manufacturers 
to produce packaging with high performance
characteristics while reducing the weight of
material used.
Supply of corrugated board and boxes is
generally relatively local to the point of
production, with a typical operational radius of
approximately 150 miles, owing to customers’
service requirements and the proportionately 
high transport costs for a low-density product.
Pricing and margins in corrugated packaging are
strongly influenced by developments in the price 
of CCM, the paper that is the principal component
in corrugated packaging, and which typically
accounts for around 50% of the cost of a box.
THE CORRUGATED CASE 
MATERIAL MARKET
Whereas boxes are generally sold locally, CCM 
is sold on a pan-European basis and pricing is
therefore affected by pan-European supply and
demand. The market for CCM in Europe is
dependent upon European demand for corrugated
packaging, as the imports and exports of unfilled
boxes are negligible. Approximately 80% of the
CCM used in Europe is made from recycled fibre,
with the balance principally comprising kraftliner,
which is made from virgin wood pulp.
The lower demand for boxes has resulted in
reduced demand for CCM. However, within the
overall CCM market there is strong demand for
high quality, lightweight CCM to produce lighter-
weight packaging. The growth in the usage of
lightweight CCM continues to be limited by the
available supply of lightweight paper as the
majority of the existing CCM machines are unable
to manufacture lightweight papers cost-effectively
or to an acceptable quality. This increased
demand for high-quality lightweight CCM is
resulting in the addition of new CCM capacity
capable of producing lightweight paper. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
Operating Review
22 www.dssmith.uk.com
PACKAGING 
Within the overall
weaker market for
boxes there is a
continuing strong trend
towards the greater 
use of lighter-weight
corrugated packaging.
1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers In January 2009, the Group started production 
of its ‘K-light’ lightweight CCM product at
Kemsley. Other European lightweight producers
started up new machines located in Poland and
Hungary during the second half of 2009 and 
in Germany in 2010. This new capacity will
produce circa 1.5 million tonnes per annum when
it is fully operational. Additionally, it has been
reported in the press that a new 400,000 tonne
machine is planned for 2012 in the UK. It is
anticipated that the production from the new
machines will principally be targeted at satisfying
the rapidly growing pan-European demand for
lightweight paper.
During 2008 and 2009, a number of closures of
older recycled CCM machines, representing circa
0.8 million tonnes of capacity, were implemented
across the industry. Despite these closures it is
estimated that there is currently an oversupply of
some three million tonnes of CCM in Europe.
There are no new machines planned until 2012
and with demand picking up, this oversupply is
expected to lessen considerably over the next two
years. Additionally, the continuing economic
viability of some existing older machines across
the industry is under pressure due to having a
much higher cost base relative to new machines,
especially in terms of fibre costs.
CCM AND BOX PRICES
Finished recycled paper stocks in 2010 have
fallen rapidly and are below levels seen in 2006.
This, coupled with a rapid pick-up in demand at
the start of the year has led to a change in the
pricing environment in Europe. As a result, CCM
prices in both the UK and continental Europe
increased by 60% in the final quarter of 2009
and the first quarter of 2010. These increases in
CCM prices have necessarily resulted in increases
in box prices.
WASTE PAPER
Waste paper, the principal raw material for
recycled CCM, is a globally traded commodity.
The price of old corrugated containers (OCC), 
the principal grade of waste paper used for
producing CCM rose throughout the financial
year, increasing by over 50%. Three main factors
drove the price increases: demand from Asia
increased, including demand from India and
Indonesia, as well as the more established
demand from China; waste paper collected was
down due to lower economic activity; and there
was demand from new European mills using 
OCC to make recycled CCM. 
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 23
OUR UK CORRUGATED PACKAGING SUPPLY CHAIN
DS Smith’s operations play a
significant role in the first three stages
of the corrugated packaging recycling
process. The fibres in corrugated
boxes can be back on the shelf 
in-store within 14 days of disposal; 
their re-use minimises waste disposal
to landfill. In the UK, over 80% of
corrugated packaging is recycled.
Corrugated boxes protect products,
reduce product wastage, enable more
efficient and lower-cost handling and
transportation and are increasingly
used to provide strong visual display
in-store. Approximately two-thirds 
are used for food, beverages and
other fast-moving consumer goods.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING 2009/10 PERFORMANCE
Results in the UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging segment were affected by lower
demand for packaging and the rising cost of 
raw materials. Our corrugated box business
performed well, despite a lower demand for
boxes, through its focus on adding value for
FMCG customers with innovative products and
services. Our paper business began to benefit
from rising CCM prices towards the end of 
the financial year. Revenue fell 4.5% to 
£750.2 million. Adjusted operating profit was
marginally lower at £35.4 million (2008/09:
£36.5 million).
Our waste paper recovery and recycling business,
Severnside Recycling, was affected by the rapidly
increasing cost of recovered paper, which
increased by over 50% during the financial year,
due to resurgent demand from Asia. The amount
of material available for collection was lower 
due to the reduced levels of activity at retailers
and other businesses. Despite this, volumes
increased due to the acquisition of new customers.
In addition to fulfilling its primary role of securing
the required quantities of fibre for our UK paper
mills, Severnside developed further its value-added
waste management services in response to
growing demand, which is being stimulated by
government action to reduce the amount of waste
going to landfill. During the course of the year,
Severnside and our UK box business, DS Smith
Packaging, have further strengthened their
marketing collaboration for our ‘cradle-to-cradle’
environmental capability. In April 2009,
Severnside announced that it had entered a
contractual relationship with Marks & Spencer
(M&S) to help the retailer to achieve its ‘Plan A’
goal of sending zero waste to landfill by 2012. 
Severnside will provide the management systems
for dealing with waste generated by all stores 
and distribution centres. Fibre-based packaging
material produced by M&S will be reprocessed
through Severnside’s UK facilities. Any residual
waste, mainly food waste, will be processed
through a network of landfill diversion
technologies, focusing on anaerobic digestion
facilities being developed by strategic partner,
Shanks Group plc. Customers are increasingly
recognising the benefits of the Group’s expertise
in the design of waste-minimising packaging, the
manufacture of fully recyclable boxes and waste
recycling and disposal services.
Revenue at St Regis, our UK paper business, fell
slightly, due to the ending of a tolling contract 
to supply M-real with copier paper, which was
mostly mitigated by the full-year contribution from
the new lightweight paper machine at Kemsley.
Waste paper costs increased, but the business
benefited from the increase in CCM prices in the
second half of the financial year. 
In early 2009, production of lightweight CCM 
(‘K-light’) commenced. The quality of the ‘K-light’
product being produced continues to exceed our
expectations and there is strong demand for this
lightweight paper despite the weaker demand for
CCM as a whole. We believe that this investment
has materially strengthened the long-term
competitiveness of our UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging business. It has established us as a
leader in high-quality, high-performance, lighter-
weight packaging and given us a significant
capability as well as an increased share of this
growing market.
DS Smith Packaging, our UK box business,
achieved a good result, strengthening its position
in a weaker overall market. Increasing CCM costs
necessitated price increases from the second half
of the year, which continue to be implemented.
We benefited from our broad exposure to the
FMCG sector of the market and particularly from
our focus on RRP , which continues to increase its
share of the market. We are continuing to develop
our innovative supply chain support service,
designing and manufacturing packaging solutions
that will reduce customers’ overall transportation
and handling costs, and hence their carbon
footprint. Our sheet-feeding operation, which
supplies corrugated sheet to box converters,
increased its market share during the year, 
aided by structural changes in the market. 
As we enter 2010/11, we are experiencing
modest improvements in demand offset by
increasing waste paper input costs and CCM
prices. We will build on the strong market
positions achieved to date and are well 
positioned for growth. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
Operating Review continued
24 www.dssmith.uk.com
Good productivity and cost reductions offset the effects 
of lower demand and rising input costs. 
2009/10 2008/09
Revenue – £m 750.2 785.8
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 35.4 36.5
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 74.4 73.2
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth –% (4.5)% 4.3%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 4.7% 4.6%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 9.9% 9.3%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 6.6% 6.7%
* before exceptional charge of £4.5m (2008/09: £18.2m)
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 2009/10 PERFORMANCE
The Continental European Corrugated 
Packaging segment saw demand recovering 
at the end of the fiscal year. A 4% volume
improvement in the fourth quarter, year-on-year,
resulted in volume for the full year increasing by
2%. Revenue fell by 2.2% to £355.4 million
(2008/09: £363.4 million), mostly due to lower
selling prices at the beginning of the fiscal year.
This segment, which is a substantial net buyer 
of paper, suffered from increasing CCM prices,
partially offset by a significant reduction in
conversion costs. Operating profit decreased 
by 24.7% to £22.9 million (2008/09: 
£30.4 million). Excluding the effects of foreign
exchange translation, revenue was £18.2 million
lower than in 2008/09. Operating profit,
excluding the effects of foreign exchange was
£8.1 million lower than in the prior year.
The 2% increase in volume for the full year was 
a result of our continental European business
having focused strongly on developing its sales to
the fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) market.
The sales to this market increased by almost 10%,
taking its share of our business to 48%, and
compensated for lower industrial sales.
In our established markets, the French paper
business, which focuses on supplying speciality
products, suffered from higher input (waste paper)
costs, particularly in the second half of the year.
Our French corrugated packaging business
increased sales to the FMCG sector by over 
10%. Our particularly strong market position in
heavy-duty packaging for the industrial sector in
France continued to be affected by the sharply
lower level of activity in some of its customers’
industries. Our Italian business performed
particularly well in a difficult trading environment.
In our developing markets, the Polish business
continued to develop its speciality product
portfolio, gaining share in a broadly static market.
We are taking advantage of the investments 
we have made over a number of years and our
focus on developing sales of higher value-added
products. Our facilities in Poland also serve the
adjacent markets in the Czech Republic, Hungary,
Slovakia, Russia and Lithuania. 
Although operating results at our Ukrainian
associate business Rubezhansk, which is reported
under associates, were affected by weaker sales
volume and margin pressure from rising costs, 
it remained profitable and cash generative. 
As explained in last year’s annual report, we fully
impaired the carrying value of the investment in
this business due to the covenant breach in the
large, non-recourse to DS Smith, US dollar
denominated loan and we remain in discussion
with the lenders.
In 2010/11, we expect margins to come under
increased pressure from higher input costs, but 
we expect to benefit from higher sales volumes.
Our priorities are to maintain good levels of
profitability in our three principal markets –
France, Italy and Poland – through increased
selling prices, volume growth and control of
conversion costs. We will continue to invest in and
develop the Polish business in both conventional
and speciality products and concentrate on
supplying the higher value-added product sectors
in all our markets.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 25
Despite growth in our share of the FMCG market, results
were affected by weak demand and higher input costs.
2009/10 2008/09
Revenue – £m 355.4 363.4
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 22.9 30.4
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 38.7 45.8
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth –% (2.2)% 5.0%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 6.4% 8.4%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 10.9% 12.6%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 11.9% 15.2%
* before exceptional charge of £7.1m (2008/09: £24.7m)
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING MARKET OVERVIEW
Returnable transit packaging (RTP) products 
are mostly used within the retail, automotive,
electronics and beverage sectors. Demand is
heavily influenced by industry sector activity levels.
RTP is often a capital purchase for our customers,
being driven by particular projects, hence annual
demand can be uneven. The European market for
RTP is fragmented into many product subsectors
and has a large number of suppliers. In western
Europe, the markets we serve are estimated to
have declined in 2009 as a result of the slow-
down in industrial and retail activity. The previous
trend towards the use of multi-trip, reusable
packaging on cost and environmental grounds
has reduced in recent years, although there
remain many market sectors that are well suited 
to returnable systems. This slowdown in demand
has been partly a result of the fluctuations in
polymer costs and partly a result of the general
decline in economic activity.
The global market for liquid packaging and
dispensing (LP&D) products is estimated to be
approximately £500 million. The principal uses of
bag-in-box packaging are for wine, agricultural
produce (such as fruit juice and dairy products)
and food service applications such as carbonated
soft drink concentrate (for the hotel and restaurant
industries). The market for dispensing products
(principally taps), other than for bag-in-box
systems, is fragmented across a wide range of
applications. DS Smith Plastics is a major supplier
to the wine and liquid detergent sector; the latter
has grown strongly in recent years in the USA.
Polymer prices fell during 2009, then began to
increase rapidly in the second half of the year. 
2009/10 PERFORMANCE
DS Smith Plastics’ revenue decreased by 2.4% 
to £231.3 million (2008/09: £236.9 million),
including the positive effect of foreign exchange
translation. Results were higher in both of our
major sectors such that overall adjusted operating
profit more than doubled to £15.5 million. 
The effects of foreign exchange translation
improved revenue and operating profit by 
£11.2 million and £0.8 million respectively
compared with 2008/09. 
In RTP , revenue excluding the impact of foreign
exchange translation accounted for 43% of the
segment revenue and was 6.2% lower due to
weak and variable demand from almost all its
main customer sectors. Sales to the construction
and automotive sectors continued to be weak 
and our beverage crate business was significantly
affected by the deferral by our customers of
anticipated crate replacement programmes. 
In LP&D, revenue excluding the impact of foreign
exchange translation accounted for 57% of the
segment and fell by 2.3%. Our USA operations
showed a strong performance, partly due to the
development of new market sectors for bag-in-box
packaging. Our European operations also
improved profits, benefiting from the restructuring
completed last year and sales of existing products
into new markets.
In January 2010, we completed the sale of Demes
Logistics, a small plastics logistics business based
mainly in Germany. The business had gross assets
of €11.2 million.
In 2010/11, we expect to build further on the
strong recovery in LP&D and to see growth in
demand for our RTP products.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Operating Review continued
26 www.dssmith.uk.com
Results recovered strongly due to improvements in both
our major segments.
2009/10 2008/09
Revenue – £m 231.3 236.9
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 15.5 7.0
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 27.6 19.2
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth –% (2.4)% 6.0%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 6.7% 3.0%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 11.9% 8.1%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 12.6% 5.3%
* before exceptional income of £0.1m (2008/09: exceptional charge of £4.0m)
Plastic Packaging MARKET OVERVIEW
The office products markets of the UK, France 
and Germany, in which Spicers currently has
approximately 85% of its sales, are estimated 
to be worth approximately £5 billion, €6 billion
and €7 billion respectively, at manufacturers’
selling prices. The demand for office products is
principally influenced by the level of economic
activity. The value of the markets in which Spicers
operates fell in 2009, with the traditional
stationery sector declining significantly although
the electronic office supplies (EOS) sector
continued to show modest growth. EOS accounts
for approximately 50% of the total office products
market. It is especially price-competitive on the
high-volume EOS products. 
The relative shares of the various supply 
channels to the end-user market differ by country.
Spicers principally supplies office products 
dealers and resellers. In the countries in which
Spicers operates, this channel accounts, on
average, for approximately 35% of the total office
products market. The share of the market held by
dealers has been relatively stable in recent years.
Office products dealers primarily sell to small 
and medium-sized organisations, generally offer 
a high standard of service to their customers 
and source most of their products either from
wholesalers or direct from manufacturers.
2009/10 PERFORMANCE
Spicers showed overall sales growth, aided by 
the translation benefits of the stronger euro. 
Despite the adverse impact of the economic
environment on the demand for office products,
revenue increased by 1.8% to £733.7 million
(2008/09: £720.5 million). Adjusted operating
profit increased marginally at £20.2 million, with
improved results in all markets except Spain and
Ireland. The effects of foreign exchange translation
improved revenue by £20.1 million and operating
profit by £1.1 million compared with 2008/09.
In the UK, which accounts for approximately half
of our office products wholesaling revenue, sales
declined slightly. However, this modest decline
masks a more significant decline in traditional
office products, partly offset by growth in lower
margin EOS. Despite the lower sales and mix
change, our actions to focus on efficiency, 
reduce the cost to sales ratio and on maintaining
overall margins, led to improved profits. 
Action will continue to be taken to improve the
sales mix and to raise efficiency levels further, 
with the aim of continuing the positive profit trend. 
In continental Europe, our well-established
businesses in France, Germany and the Benelux
region performed solidly despite the decline in 
the overall market. Our Italian operation once
again showed good profit growth, consolidating
its position as a significant supplier in this market. 
Under the leadership of George Adams, who was
appointed to the role of Divisional Chief Executive
of Spicers in June 2009, the management team
has been further strengthened and the Spicers
business has further developed its strategy. 
New initiatives are being created to support
dealers with new ranges and we are investing 
in strengthening our service capability. 
In the current year we expect to build on the
achievements of 2009/10 and benefit further from
the restructuring actions taken to date. We will build
on our good overall performance in continental
Europe while continuing to drive profit improvement
in the UK. We will focus on improving our overall
sales levels, primarily in traditional office products,
and on tight cost control. We believe that Spicers 
is well placed to take advantage of improving
economic conditions, due to its strong market
positions and its thorough understanding of supply
chain management. 
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 27
Proﬁt was ﬂat, assisted by a good performance 
in continental Europe.
Office Products Wholesaling
2009/10 2008/09
Revenue – £m 733.7 720.5
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 20.2 20.1
Adjusted EBITDA – £m* 25.3 25.7
Segment key performance indicators:
Revenue growth –% 1.8% 11.7%
Adjusted return on sales – %* 2.8% 2.8%
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %* 3.4% 3.6%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 16.9% 15.2%
* before exceptional charge of £1.8m (2008/09: £3.7m)
Supplies trade customers – dealers and resellers – with: 
• Everything for the ofﬁce, except computers – up to 22,000
product lines across Europe, branded and own-label
• Marketing support – catalogues/promotions
• Business development support
• E-commerce systems
• Fast service – same/next-day delivery
• Fulﬁlment service – orders delivered to dealers or direct 
to end-users
• Sell to end-users
• Some hold stock
• Some are stockless and use Spicers as their fulﬁlment
provider
• Source products from Spicers; may also buy from
manufacturers
• Ofﬁces of all sizes – from one person to large businesses –
buy their ofﬁce products from dealers
• Dealers also sell to other organisations such as schools 
and sometimes sell directly to consumers
• End-users can buy from the dealer customers of Spicers 
not only traditional stationery and electronic ofﬁce 
supplies but also ofﬁce furniture, janitorial supplies and
ofﬁce catering and vending provisions 
DEALERS AND RESELLERS
OFFICE END-USERS 
OFFICE
ORDERS DELIVERY
OFFICE 
PRODUCT 
DEALERS
CATALOGUE
CATALOGUE
SPICERS’ BUSINESS MODEL
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
Financial Review
28 www.dssmith.uk.com
OVERVIEW
The Group has achieved a strong financial
performance despite challenging trading
conditions. A combination of early action taken 
to control costs and relentless focus on managing
the business through the tough economic
conditions led to our matching the level of
operating profit achieved in 2008/09. Free cash
flow was higher than in 2008/09 due to the
planned reduction in capital expenditure and the
additional benefits of asset disposals and lower
interest payments.
TRADING RESULTS
The Group’s trading results for the year to 30 April
2010 are summarised in Table 1.
The major drivers of the 2009/10 results were:
lower prices across the Packaging activity as a
whole due to the weak economic environment; 
a recovery in CCM selling prices during the
second half of the year in the UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging segment; a significant
turnaround in our Plastic Packaging segment and
a resilient performance from the Office Products
Wholesaling segment. 
Revenue for the financial year ended 30 April
2010 decreased by 1.7% compared with the
prior year; it was 7.7% lower in the first half of 
the year but 4.9% higher in the second half.
Excluding the effect of movements in foreign
exchange rates, revenue was down 3.6% on
2008/09.
Adjusted Group operating profit (excluding
exceptional items) in 2009/10 matched the
2008/09 figure of £94.0 million. UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging was marginally down, 
at £35.4 million, whilst Continental European
Corrugated Packaging declined by £7.5 million 
to £22.9 million. The performance in these two
segments was offset by strong performance in 
Plastic Packaging which increased operating
profits by £8.5 million to £15.5 million and Office
Products Wholesaling which was £0.1 million
ahead of last year at £20.2 million. The Group’s
adjusted return on sales was maintained at 4.5%.
The Group’s adjusted pre-tax return on capital
employed (which is defined as the adjusted
operating profit divided by the average capital
employed) increased from 9.3% in 2008/09 to
9.7% in 2009/10, although this remains below
the Group’s estimated pre-tax cost of capital 
of 11.8%. The increase in the Group’s return 
on capital employed reflected higher returns 
in 2009/10 in both Plastic Packaging and 
Office Products Wholesaling, which were 
partially offset by lower returns in UK Paper 
and Corrugated Packaging and Continental 
European Corrugated Packaging. The pre-tax 
cost of capital for each segment varies between
11.1% for Plastic Packaging and 13.4% for
Office Products Wholesaling. 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The Group recorded net exceptional charges
before tax of £13.3 million during the year
(2008/09: £55.7 million). A total of £13.3
million was recorded against operating profits, 
of which £2.7 million were restructuring costs.
Impairments included the impairment of the
carrying value of intangible assets within UK
Paper and Corrugated Packaging of £4.3 million.
In anticipation of the disposal of the Group’s
business in Turkey, which was announced in May
2010, the assets of the business were impaired by
£5.9 million. A further £0.4 million was recorded
against exceptional costs in respect of Demes
Logistics (which was sold in January 2010) and
the anticipated disposal of a small UK corrugated
packaging business, which occurred after the 
year end. Operating profit after exceptional items
was £80.7 million (2008/09: £43.4 million).
“The Group achieved 
a strong ﬁnancial
performance despite
economic conditions.”
Adjusted operating proﬁt
(£million)
£94.0m
2009: £94.0m
94.0 94.0
2009 2010
Adjusted return on sales
(%)
4.5%
2009: 4.5%
4.5 4.5
2009 2010
Free cash ﬂow
(£million)
£76.8m
2009: £59.9m
59.9
76.8
2009 2010
Adjusted interest cover
(Times)
6.9 times
2009: 4.5 times
4.5
6.9
2009 2010 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 29
INTEREST, TAX AND EARNINGS PER SHARE
Net interest expense decreased from 
£23.6 million in 2008/09 to £14.4 million in
2009/10, mainly reflecting lower interest rates
and lower average net debt. The employment
benefit net finance charge, which is a non-cash
item, was £11.5 million (2008/09: £1.5 million
income), reflecting a higher opening deficit on 
the defined benefit schemes. For 2010/11, 
given the lower discount rates used and higher
return on assets, it is anticipated that there will 
be a decrease in the employment benefit finance
charge to circa £8.0 million. 
In 2008/09 the Group took the decision to fully
impair its investment in Rubezhansk, the Group’s
associate business in Ukraine. Consequently, the
Group has not recorded any income in respect 
of profits achieved by the business due to the
continuing uncertainty of the outcome of the
negotiations between Rubezhansk and lenders
regarding the restructuring of Rubezhansk’s
US$87 million loan. There is no recourse to 
the Group for the loan held by Rubezhansk.
Adjusted profit before tax was £68.3 million
(2008/09: £72.5 million). Profit before tax after
exceptional items was £55.0 million (2008/09:
£16.8 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate, excluding
exceptional items and associates, at 26.1%, 
was lower than the previous year’s rate of 
31.4% mainly as a result of the recognition of
prior year foreign currency losses which only
became recognisable under IFRS when the tax
return is submitted. A tax credit on exceptional
items of £0.9 million resulted from tax allowances
for restructuring costs. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 
12.9 pence (2008/09: 12.6 pence). 
Basic earnings per share were 9.7 pence
(2008/09: losses per share 3.0 pence).
TABLE 2 – CASH FLOW
2009/10 2008/09
£m £m
Operating proﬁt before 
exceptional items 94.0 94.0
Depreciation and amortisation 72.0 69.9
Adjusted EBITDA 166.0 163.9
Working capital movement (2.4) 30.8
Other (9.7) (11.1)
Cash generated from operations 153.9 183.6
Capital expenditure payments (52.6) (87.4)
Sales of assets 13.0 7.7
Tax paid (21.3) (21.0)
Net interest paid (16.2) (23.0)
Free cash ﬂow
1
76.8 59.9
Exceptional cash costs (18.4) (17.2)
Dividends (12.9) (34.4)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders – (1.9)
Net acquisitions (1.0) (1.2)
Net cash ﬂow 44.5 5.2
Purchase of own shares – (0.2)
Net debt acquired (0.9) (0.2)
Non-cash movements 8.4 (44.5)
Net debt movement 52.0 (39.7)
1 before net acquisitions/(disposals) of equity in subsidiaries, exceptional cash costs and dividends
TABLE 1 – TRADING RESULTS SUMMARY
First half Second half Full-year
2009/10 2008/09 2009/10 2008/09 2009/10 2008/09
Revenue – £m 1,018.0 1,102.8 1,052.6 1,003.8 2,070.6 2,106.6
Adjusted operating proﬁt – £m* 48.5 54.4 45.5 39.6 94.0 94.0
Adjusted return on sales – %* 4.8% 4.9% 4.3% 3.9% 4.5% 4.5%
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %* 9.9% 10.8% 9.4% 7.7% 9.7% 9.3% 
* before exceptional items 
DIVIDEND
The proposed final dividend is 3.1 pence
(2008/09: 1.8 pence), giving a total dividend 
for the year of 4.6 pence (2008/09: 4.4 pence).
Dividend cover before exceptional items was 
2.8 times in 2009/10 (2008/09: 2.9 times).
After exceptional items the dividend was covered
2.1 times (2008/09: not covered).
CASH FLOW
The Group generated free cash flow of 
£76.8 million (2008/09: £59.9 million).
Adjusted EBITDA rose by £2.1 million to 
£166.0 million. Despite the increase in paper 
and box prices towards the end of the year, 
our tight control of working capital resulted 
in a working capital cash outflow of just 
£2.4 million (2008/09: inflow of £30.8 million).
Cash generated from operations (before
exceptional items) was £153.9 million 
(2008/09: £183.6 million).
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
Financial Review continued
30 www.dssmith.uk.com
Capital expenditure payments after disposals 
were £52.6 million (2008/09: £87.4 million).
The interest paid decreased in line with the
income statement charge. 
Proceeds from sales of assets and investments of
£13.0 million were principally accounted for by
the sale of the Demes Logistics assets, together
with the disposal of surplus property assets.
Tax payments were £21.3 million (2008/09:
£21.0 million). Cash dividend cover, defined 
as free cash flow divided by dividends
paid/declared for the year, was 6.0 times, 
up from 1.7 times in 2008/09.
The cash outflow in respect of exceptional
restructuring costs was £18.4 million (including
cash outflows related to exceptional charges
made in 2008/09), compared with a cash
outflow from restructuring costs of £17.2 million 
in 2008/09. 
The net cash outflow on acquisitions was 
£1.0 million (2008/09: £1.2 million).
In respect of pension payments, the agreed 
annual contributions into the UK Group Pension
Scheme were £15.6 million in 2009/10
(2008/09: £15.6 million). 
Overall, the Group generated cash of 
£44.5 million (2008/09: £ 5.2 million) after
funding additional capital expenditure and
restructuring costs.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Shareholders’ funds totalled £474.8 million 
at 30 April 2010, up from £458.0 million 
at 30 April 2009, principally due to lower
borrowings. Net assets per share were 
121.0 pence (30 April 2009: 116.7 pence). 
The profit attributable to the shareholders of 
DS Smith Plc was £37.9 million (2008/09: 
£11.8 million loss) and dividends of £12.9 million
(2008/09: £34.4 million) were paid during the
year. In addition, after-tax actuarial losses of 
£7.0 million on the Group’s defined benefit
pension schemes were debited to reserves through
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income. Other items recognised directly in equity,
relate to currency translation gain of £5.5 million and
movements in cash flow hedges of £(10.1) million.
The Group has committed facilities to November
2012 of £530 million. The closing net debt was
£239.5 million, which was £52.0 million lower
than at the start of the year, reflecting the net cash
inflow during the year of £44.5 million and non-
cash movements, principally exchange differences
and related fair value movements, of £8.4 million. 
Gearing, defined as net debt as a percentage 
of net assets, was 50.6% (30 April 2009:
63.9%); the movement reflected the reduction in
borrowings from the net cash inflow. Adjusted
Interest Cover (as defined in the loan agreements)
was 6.9 times, compared with 4.5 times last year.
The higher cover reflected the higher adjusted
operating profit combined with lower interest
charge. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA (before
exceptional items) was 1.4 times (2008/09: 
1.8 times). 
The Group’s banking covenants for the syndicated
loan and the private placements specify an
Adjusted Interest Cover not less than 3.0 times, 
a maximum ratio of net debt to EBITDA of 
3.25 times and net assets to be in excess of 
£360 million. The covenant calculations exclude
from the income statement exceptional items and
the net interest income/charge arising from the
defined benefit pension schemes. The calculation
of net assets excludes the net asset or liability
arising from the defined benefit pension schemes.
As at 30 April 2010, the most important covenant
is the Adjusted Interest Cover and this had an
Adjusted Profit headroom of £56.6 million
(2008/09: £34.6 million).
ENERGY COSTS
The high level of energy costs continued to be 
a significant factor for the Group in 2009/10.
The Group’s total costs for gas, electricity and
diesel fuel fell from circa £114 million in
2008/09 to circa £109 million in 2009/10. 
The Group continued with its strategy of hedging
energy costs with suppliers and financial
institutions, the purpose of which is to reduce 
the volatility of energy costs and provide the
Group with a degree of certainty over future
energy costs. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY
MANAGEMENT
The Group funds its operations from the following
sources of cash: operating cash flow, borrowing,
shareholders’ equity and disposals of peripheral
businesses, where appropriate. The Group’s
objective is to achieve a capital structure that
results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst
providing flexibility in immediate and medium-
term funding so as to accommodate material
investments or acquisitions. The Group also 
aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and 
to provide continuity of financing by having a
range of maturities and borrowing from a variety
of sources. 
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are to
ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group
to carry out its strategy and to manage financial
risks. The Group’s treasury strategy is controlled
through the Treasury Committee, which meets
regularly and includes the Group Chief Executive,
the Group Finance Director, Group Financial
Controller and the Group Treasurer. The Group
Treasury function operates in accordance with
policies and procedures approved by the 
Board and controlled by the Group Treasurer. 
The function arranges funding for the Group,
provides a service to operations and implements
strategies for interest rate, foreign exchange and
energy exposure management. 
The Group’s main borrowing facilities are shown
in Table 3. At 30 April 2010, the Group’s
committed borrowing facilities, excluding the
bilateral facility, were £566.5 million. The total
gross borrowing drawn under all these facilities 
at the year end were £255.5 million. At 30 April
2010, the Group’s borrowing facilities had a
weighted-average maturity of three years and 
four months. 
TABLE 3 – BORROWING FACILITIES
Committed funds
Facility million Maturity
Private placement US$105.0 2012
Private placement £25.0 2012
Private placement US$105.0 2014
Private placement US$95.0 2016
Syndicated revolving
credit facility £287.5 2013
The major treasury risks to which the Group is
exposed relate to movements in interest and
foreign exchange rates and market prices for
energy. The overall objective of the Treasury
function is to control these exposures whilst 
striking an appropriate balance between
mitigating risks and controlling costs. 
Financial instruments, including derivatives, 
may be used in implementing hedging strategies
but the speculative use of financial instruments,
including derivatives, is not permitted.
The Group manages the risks associated with 
its purchases of energy in the UK through its
Energy Procurement Group, which operates 
under the oversight of the Treasury Committee. 
UK purchases of energy represent the significant
majority of the Group’s overall energy costs. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 31
The Treasury Committee regularly reviews the
Group’s exposure to interest rates and considers
whether to borrow on fixed or floating terms. 
The Group has a current policy of mainly
borrowing at floating rates, which the Treasury
Committee believes provides better value 
over the medium-term. Fixed-rate borrowing,
taking into account the effect of related 
swaps, comprised 44% of total borrowing 
at 30 April 2010 (30 April 2009: 35%). 
The Group has a net investment in major overseas 
subsidiary companies’ foreign currency assets 
and liabilities, in particular those whose functional
currency is the euro or the US dollar. The Group’s
policy is to hedge a large part of the resulting
exposure to movements in foreign currency rates,
by means of debt in the same currency, to a 
level determined by the Treasury Committee. 
The overseas net assets hedged through euro
borrowing decreased from 89% at 30 April 2009
to 76% at 30 April 2010 as a proportion of the
Group’s euro net investment. 
The Group’s foreign currency debt may be put 
in place either in the currency itself or through 
the use of cross-currency swaps on differently
denominated borrowing. The Group applies
hedge accounting under IAS 39, ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, 
to its hedges of its net investment of foreign
currency subsidiaries and records exchange
differences arising on the net investments and 
the related foreign currency borrowing directly 
in equity. In addition, the Group’s operations
make product sales and purchases of raw
materials in foreign currencies; here, cash 
flow hedges are taken out to reduce the risk
associated with these transactions.
IMPAIRMENT
When applying IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’,
the Group compares the carrying amounts of
goodwill and intangible assets with the higher 
of their net realisable value and their value in 
use to determine whether an impairment exists.
The value in use is calculated by discounting the
future cash flows expected to be generated by 
the assets or group of assets being tested for
impairment. At the year end a series of tests were
undertaken to determine whether there had been
any impairment to the balance sheet carrying
values of goodwill and other intangible assets. 
The key assumptions behind the calculations can
be found in note 10 to the financial statements.
In summary, the tests indicated that the goodwill
and other intangible assets of certain small
packaging businesses within UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging required impairment 
by £4.3 million.
On 28 May 2010, the Group announced 
the intention to sell its business in Turkey.
Consequently, the assets and liabilities of this
business have been reclassified to assets and
liabilities held for sale. An impairment of 
£5.9 million has been made to reflect the
estimated value of the business.
Whilst the Board considers that its assumptions 
are realistic, it is possible impairment would be
identified if any of the key assumptions were
changed significantly. The net book value of
goodwill and other intangibles at 30 April 
2010 was £221.2 million (30 April 2009:
£222.0 million).
Approximately 71% of the carrying value of the
Group’s goodwill is allocated to UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging.
Note 10 to the financial statements sets out
additional information regarding the Group’s
annual impairment exercise including the details
of the carrying value headroom for the key 
cash-generating units that hold goodwill, 
together with sensitivity analysis.
PENSIONS
IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, requires the Group 
to make assumptions including, but not limited to,
future asset returns, rates of inflation, discount
rates and current and future life expectancies. 
The use of different assumptions could have a
material effect on the accounting values of the
relevant assets and liabilities, which in turn could
result in a change to the cost of such liabilities as
recognised in the income statement over time. 
The assumptions involved are subject to 
periodic review.
The Group operates one defined benefit pension
scheme in the UK and has some small overseas
arrangements. The aggregate gross assets of the
schemes at 30 April 2010 were £689.1 million
and the gross liabilities at 30 April 2010,
calculated under IAS 19, were £892.2 million,
resulting in the recognition of a gross balance
sheet deficit of £203.1 million (30 April 2009: 
£191.3 million), a net deficit of £146.1 million
(30 April 2009: £138.0 million) after the
establishment of a deferred tax asset of 
£57.0 million (30 April 2009: £53.3 million). 
The increase in the gross balance sheet deficit of
£11.8 million was principally due to an increase
in liabilities of £145.6 million due to a lower
discount rate and an increase in the inflation
assumption. The increase in liabilities was 
partially offset by an increase in asset values of
£133.8 million resulting from the appreciation 
in global equity prices during the year.
In order to control the future costs and financial
obligations of these schemes, the Group’s UK
defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new
members. The current service cost in 2009/10,
amounted to £6.7 million compared with 
£9.7 million in 2008/09. The Group’s agreed
annual cash contributions to the main UK scheme
were £15.6 million (2008/09: £15.6 million). 
A triennial valuation of the main UK scheme was
carried out as at 30 April 2007 and the scheme
actuaries have commenced work on the valuation
as at 30 April 2010. The Group anticipates that 
it will have concluded discussions with the trustees 
of the main UK scheme on the outcome of the
2010 valuation by the end of the 2010/11
financial year.
Note 25 to the financial statements sets out
additional information regarding the Group’s
pension and post-retirement benefits.
STEVE DRYDEN
Group Finance Director
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING The Group faces various risks, both internal and
external, which could have a material effect 
on its performance. The Group’s exposure to
individual risks is limited and diversified by the
fact that it has several distinct types of activity, 
with 30 business sectors operating from over 
100 sites in 16 different countries, and it sells to 
a broad range of customers. Details of the limited
dependence of each of our segments on any 
one customer are provided in the Description 
of the Group on pages 20 and 21. The main
commercial and other risks that are specific to 
a business segment are described within the
narrative on that segment. The principal Group-
wide key risks and uncertainties, as perceived in
the light of present knowledge, and the way they
are managed, are described below. There are
further references to the risks faced by the Group
in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31, in the
Corporate Governance section on pages 42 to 45
and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 65 to 105. The Group seeks
to mitigate its insurable risks through an insurance
programme that covers property and liability risks
where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
CHANGES IN THE DEMAND FOR, OR
PRICING OF, THE GROUP’S PRODUCTS
AND SERVICES AS A RESULT OF 
GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
OR MARKET-SPECIFIC FACTORS
The profitability of the Group’s businesses is
sensitive to the volume and mix of sales and to
product pricing. Demand across the Group’s
markets has weakened and become less
predictable as a result of the global economic
downturn. This has, in turn, contributed to a fall 
in prices in some of the Group’s markets. In the
present circumstances, management has reduced
visibility for forecasting the Group’s levels of
activity and margins. Trading conditions may
prove to be very different from those that are
currently expected. In these circumstances the
Group’s businesses are monitoring sales and
pricing trends in their markets especially closely.
The businesses all have programmes in place
aimed at maximising sales and managing margins
in the context of the evolving situation in their
specific markets.
For our paper-based packaging products, a 5%
reduction in the current level of overall demand
across Europe could have the potential to reduce
future operating profits by approximately 
£15 million. However, the actual impact would
depend upon the specific effect of the reduction 
on individual products and markets and upon the
outcome of the actions that management would
take to mitigate the effects of such a change 
in demand.
With specific regard to our UK Paper business,
based on an annual production of approximately
1 million tonnes, if the selling price of paper
moved by £10 per tonne, the Group’s operating
profit would be impacted by circa £10 million, 
all other factors being equal. The actual impact
would initially be partially mitigated by a
corresponding change in the paper costs within
our corrugated packaging operations. The UK
paper business has experienced the most volatility
with respect to its performance.
In respect of our Office Products Wholesaling
business, a 1% reduction in the overall margin
achieved for office products would reduce Group
operating profits by circa £7 million. 
Further information on the changes and trends 
in demand and pricing relevant to our business
segments is provided within the market
commentaries in the Operating Review on 
pages 22 to 27.
VOLATILITY OF PRICING AND
AVAILABILITY OF GLOBALLY
TRADED RAW MATERIALS
In 2009/10, the Group purchased approximately
£112 million of waste paper and approximately
£101 million of polymers and films as the
principal raw materials in its Paper and Plastic
Packaging businesses, respectively. These products
are globally traded and subject to variations in
supply and demand which result in volatility in
their pricing. The Group endeavours to recover
any raw material cost increases through good
material usage programmes and through price
rises. Approximately one-third of the Group’s
corrugated and plastic packaging customer
contracts include arrangements to link selling
prices to an index of raw material prices. 
The achievement of price increases for the
majority of our Packaging business is substantially
determined by the state of supply and demand in
the relevant market at any time. Due to the variety
of contractual arrangements with customers,
margins may be squeezed for a period of time
until price increases are achieved to recover input
cost increases. In the present trading environment
it is likely to prove more difficult to recover input
cost increases through price rises.
The Group’s Severnside Recycling business collects
and trades waste paper to ensure a continuous
cost-competitive supply to the Group’s paper mills. 
It achieves this through long-term contracts with
major suppliers of waste paper and the collection
of waste from smaller suppliers through its network
of collection depots. Based on the Group’s
purchases of waste paper of approximately 
£112 million, a £10 per tonne increase in waste
paper prices would reduce Group operating profit
by £9 million. However, as noted above, the actual
impact on future profitability would depend upon
the extent to which finished goods prices are linked
to input prices. 
Of the Group’s total polymer and film purchases,
polycarbonate, polypropylene and high density
polyethylene are the principal polymers used, 
with the remainder comprising a large number 
of different polymers and films. The Group has
developed a good level of expertise in polymer
purchasing and uses a number of suppliers to
ensure it is purchasing at competitive prices.
VOLATILE AND INCREASING 
ENERGY PRICES
The Group’s exposure to energy costs is described
on page 30 and is being managed in a number
of ways. The Group is looking to maximise in-
house energy generation from its combined heat
and power (CHP) plants in the UK and France,
thereby taking advantage of the greater efficiency
of the CHP process. It is also investigating the
potential for the use of renewable or low-carbon
energy sources, including refuse-derived fuel. 
The Group continues to undertake a wide range
of energy-saving projects aimed at increasing its
energy efficiency and reducing its energy usage.
In 2009/10, the Group increased its own energy
usage by 0.5% compared with 2008/09, but its
purchases from external providers fell, such that
overall energy usage was down.
The regulatory developments in the energy market
are monitored and the Group collaborates, when
appropriate, with other higher energy users in 
the paper and other industry sectors to influence
government on energy policy and the operation 
of energy markets. The Group maintains a
centralised energy-purchasing approach in the 
UK and France, which enables it to obtain
economies of scale in buying and to apply
specialist expertise. Given the sensitivity of the
Group’s financial results to energy prices, the
impact of energy costs are managed through 
the use of long-term supply contracts (which
reduce the volatility of price movements) and the
application of hedging techniques. The Group
transacts hedging instruments with a number of
counterparties and monitors its overall reliance
and exposure against each counterparty.
The most significant energy risk relates to the
purchase of gas in the UK, where a 10 pence 
per therm increase would reduce Group operating
profit by circa £7 million.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Risk Management
32 www.dssmith.uk.com
The Group has maintained rigorous procedures for understanding and managing 
its signiﬁcant risks. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 33
MOVEMENTS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE
RATES AND INTEREST RATES
These risks and the way in which they are
managed through the Group’s Treasury 
Committee and its subsidiary committees or
groups are described on pages 30 and 31.
In terms of the effects of currency translation, 
the principal conversion rates which affect the
Group’s reported financial performance are
sterling to the euro and sterling to the US dollar.
An increase in sterling’s value against the euro 
by 10 cents would decrease operating profits by
around £3 million, principally due to the impact
on the translation of profits in the Group’s euro-
denominated operations. This impact would be
partially offset at a profit before tax level by a
reduction in interest costs of circa £0.6 million due
to translation of interest costs on the Group’s euro
debt. Similarly, a 10 cents increase in the value 
of sterling against the US dollar would reduce
reported operating profits by around £0.3 million.
An overall one percentage point increase in
interest rates across the debt held by the Group
would increase interest costs by £1.5 million.
However, as noted on page 30, we currently have
44% of our debt placed at fixed interest rates.
THE FUNDING POSITION OF THE
GROUP’S UK DEFINED BENEFIT 
PENSION SCHEME
The funding of the Group’s UK defined benefit
pension scheme is sensitive to a number of key
factors: the value of the assets, of which 61% are
invested in equities and 39% in bonds, gilts and
cash; the discount rate, based on the yield on 
high quality corporate bonds, which is used to
calculate the scheme’s liabilities; and the 
expected mortality rate of the scheme’s members.
The funding position of the scheme has
deteriorated during 2009/10 as described on
page 31. The Group faces the risk that this
funding position may deteriorate further over 
time. The Group and the scheme’s trustee have
sought to mitigate this risk through the scheme’s
investment strategy and through having increased
the contributions made to the scheme by both 
the members and the Group. The regulatory
environment for pension schemes and their trustees
has changed in recent years, in particular with the
Pensions Act 2004: the presence of a deficit in a
scheme may now oblige the trustee or possibly the
Pensions Regulator to seek some further funding of
the scheme in the event of a significant corporate
action or perceived decline in the Group’s
financial covenant. The sensitivity of the funding
position to the key assumptions is detailed in note
25. On 30 April 2010, the scheme commenced
the triennial actuarial valuation, the results of
which will be available by the end of 2010/11.
At that time the Group expects to reach agreement
with the trustees as to the increased level of
pension contributions necessary to repay 
the deficit.
THE CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF
BORROWING FACILITIES, INCLUDING
COMPLIANCE WITH BORROWING
COVENANTS
The Group’s borrowing facilities and their
management through the Treasury Committee are
described on pages 30 and 31. The Group has
committed facilities of £566.5 million (2008/09:
£625.9 million) and, as at 30 April 2010,
£255.5 million was drawn against these facilities.
The facilities are provided by a range of banks
that typically have a credit rating of BBB+ or
greater. The Group is required as a condition of
its borrowing facilities to remain within certain
covenants. These are detailed in the Financial
Review on page 30. In the event that a breach 
of covenant occurs, borrowing under the facility
becomes repayable on demand. 
The Group has cash deposit, borrowing and
transactional relationships with a range of
institutions. The counterparty risk is carefully
monitored to ensure that the risk of an individual
counterparty failure would not curtail the Group’s
ability to manage foreign exchange, energy or
impinge significantly on its borrowing facilities.
Cash deposits are placed with institutions of 
credit rating A or greater. In countries where 
this is not possible, deposits are held with strong
local banks.
COMPETITIVE RISK
DS Smith operates in competitive markets.
Aggressive pricing from competitors may cause a
reduction in our revenues and margins. We aim to
build long-term relationships with our customers in
order to become an integral part of their supply
chain and help them reduce costs. We also ensure
that we are the supplier of choice by focusing on
innovation for our customers and maintaining high
standards of service.
CUSTOMER CREDIT RISK
Although the Group has a broad base of
customers, the financial failure of one or more of
the Group’s key customers may have a material
impact on the results in a particular segment 
and result in a significant loss of future business. 
Given the current environment we are closely
monitoring credit risk across our customer base.
The potential effect of the failure of any particular
Group customer is limited as no single customer
represents more than 2% of the Group’s revenue.
SERIOUS BREACHES OF THE LAW 
OR OTHER REGULATIONS
The Group’s Key Corporate Values, which are
described in more detail in the Corporate
Responsibility Review on pages 38 and 39 
and are available in full at:
www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/Policies.asp on 
the Group’s website, require all employees to
comply with all relevant laws and regulations in
the countries in which they operate. The Group
recognises the risk that substantial fines, or other
penalties, may be imposed for non-compliance
with laws and regulations relating to competition,
environmental, health and safety or other 
matters, and has control mechanisms, ongoing
programmes and systems, and special initiatives
in place for monitoring compliance. It also carries
out training programmes for employees and has
systems in place to share expertise and best
practice on these matters. The Group has a
Workplace Malpractice Policy, and a process 
for employees to report any suspected
wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place 
across its international operations where such
reporting is permitted by law.
INCREASING COSTS IN THE 
MEDIUM TERM RELATED TO 
CLIMATE CHANGE AND CARBON
DIOXIDE (CO
2
) EMISSIONS
As a result of its substantial energy usage, 
the Group is likely, in the medium term, to be
increasingly subject to regulation and taxation 
of its CO
2
emissions. The details of this and the
actions being taken to reduce the Group’s future
energy usage and CO
2
emissions are described
in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page
38 and in the statement of the Group’s strategy 
for managing its energy costs on page 30.
PRODUCT LIABILITY
The Group’s packaging products, many of 
which are supplied into the food and beverage
industries, may give rise to potentially substantial
product liability claims in the event of a failure 
of the packaging to perform its function when 
in use or from contamination of the product by 
its packaging. The potential for such claims is
reduced by the fact that the majority of the
Group’s packaging is used as secondary, or
transit, packaging and does not come into direct
contact with the products it ultimately protects. 
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure 
the safety and adequate performance levels of 
its packaging through design, manufacturing
control processes, technical testing and other
means while having appropriate product liability
insurances in place. It also looks to minimise its
product liability risk through its relevant terms 
and conditions of trading.
OTHER SOCIAL AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Group’s management of other social and
environmental risks is described in the Corporate
Responsibility Review on pages 34 to 39.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW
Corporate Responsibility Review
34 www.dssmith.uk.com
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH
AIMS 2009/10 ACTIONS AND PROGRESS
EMPLOYEES • Attract, retain and
motivate good people
• Enable our employees
to fulfil their potential
COMMUNITY
INVOLVEMENT
• Develop and maintain
good relations with our
local communities
Safety performance has improved signiﬁcantly over the past year. The safety of 
our employees is our principal concern and the Group is committed to achieving 
further improvements.
• Group-wide ‘Think Safe, Be Safe’ campaign and local
initiatives targeted at key safety issues achieved substantial
reduction in accidents
• Lost-time accidents down 35%
• Accident frequency rate down 30%
• Accident severity rate down 28%
• Businesses use audits and benchmarking processes to
measure performance and highlight areas for improvement
• Extensive training programmes undertaken aimed at analysing
and reducing risks and changing attitudes and behaviour
• Developed further our services to provide the optimum
packaging solutions for the end-use
• Life-cycle analysis of bag-in-box format confirmed green
credentials
• Reduced environmental impact due to improved
performance as activity levels began to increase
• Own energy usage up 0.5%, offset by fall in energy
bought in
• CO
2
emissions down 1.5%
• Water usage down 4.5%
• Waste sent to landfill down 1.4% 
• New Management Development programme initiated 
in partnership with Warwick Business School 
• Increased level of communication to ensure awareness 
of business plans and objectives
• Employee surveys in parts of the Group
• Training and development programmes to meet
businesses’ and employees’ specific needs
• Businesses work closely with local schools and colleges
• Involvement in a range of community activities
• Participate in liaison groups and hold open days
• Support good causes in local communities
• Ensure the safety of
our staff and others
affected by our
operations – our 
top priority
• Reduce the number 
of accidents
HEALTH AND
SAFETY
ENVIRONMENT • Reduce the impact 
of our operations 
on the environment
• Contribute to
optimising resource
usage and waste
throughout our
supply chains DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 35
OUR PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH TO
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
DS Smith is committed to providing good
sustainable returns for its investors while
maintaining high standards in the way we 
conduct our business. The safety of our 10,500
employees, working at over 100 locations
worldwide, is our principal concern. We also 
pay close attention to the fulfilment of our
responsibilities towards the environment and to
how we interact with our employees and local
communities. This review presents information 
on these high priority aspects of corporate
responsibility (CR) for the Group.
The Board considers risks to the Group’s short-
and long-term value arising from CR matters as
part of its regular review of the key risks to the
Group’s operations. It ensures that the Group 
has in place effective policies and systems for
managing any significant CR risks and it receives
regular reports on performance. The Group Chief
Executive is the Director responsible for CR matters
and he reports to the Board on these. It is the
responsibility of the Divisional Chief Executives
and General Managers of the individual
businesses to communicate and to apply the
policies, to ensure compliance and to review
procedures, taking account of local legislation 
and potential risks. Divisional Chief Executives 
are required annually to attest that the companies
for which they are responsible have complied 
with relevant Group and divisional policies. 
The Group’s Key Corporate Values define the way
in which we require our people and businesses to
operate. In summary, all employees are expected
at all times to act ethically and with integrity, to
treat their colleagues fairly, equitably and with
respect, to work safely and to protect the
environment. Our Key Corporate Values 
statement is reinforced by more detailed 
policies on health and safety, the environment 
and other relevant topics; these documents 
may be viewed on the Group’s website at:
www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/Policies.asp. 
The Group has a Workplace Malpractice Policy,
under which employees may report in confidence
any perceived wrongdoing within the Group 
on matters relating to safety, the environment,
unethical business conduct or breaches of 
Group policies, the law or other regulations. 
This policy is reinforced by a confidential
Employee Concern Helpline and e-mail facility
which we aim to make available to our 
employees worldwide as local legal and
regulatory issues are resolved; to date, it has 
been extended to over 70% of our employees,
located in nine countries. Any concerns reported
are appropriately investigated. 
DS Smith continues to be selected as a constituent
of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies
deemed to meet globally recognised corporate
responsibility standards. DS Smith is also a
constituent of the Kempen/SNS Smaller Europe
SRI Index for smaller companies deemed to have
high social responsibility standards and practice.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
DS Smith is committed to ensuring that throughout
the Group the safety of our staff and others
affected by our operations receives the highest
priority. Accordingly, safety at work is the first
fixed agenda item at all main Board, executive
committee and divisional review meetings.
Providing a safe workplace and ensuring safe
working practices are not only legal and ethical
responsibilities for the Group but are also essential
elements for achieving our aims of attracting and
retaining a high-quality and well motivated
workforce and in carrying out our operations
productively and cost-effectively. Responsibility for
the safety of our people is regarded as a key
aspect of the role of management at all levels.
Managers are provided with training to assist
them in fulfilling this responsibility. 
The Group’s safety record continues to improve.
Our businesses benchmark their performance 
on safety against other Group businesses and
through the use of external data. This process
enables them to identify areas that require further
attention as well as areas of strength which can 
be spread across the Group. Site health and
safety audits by internal specialists and external
consultants are also used to measure performance
and to highlight important issues. All accidents
and situations that might have resulted in an
accident are investigated to ensure that we learn
from these incidents and take steps to prevent a
recurrence. In addition to focusing on specific
risks, through techniques of risk assessment and
root cause analysis, the Group also undertakes
extensive safety training programmes at all levels
of the organisation.
The Group has a well-established safety
communications programme, first launched in
2006 under the slogan ‘Think Safe, Be Safe’,
which aims to raise awareness of key issues; to
challenge unsafe attitudes and behaviour; and to
promote a collective responsibility for maintaining
a safe working environment. In the past year, 
we have also implemented measures to help
communicate best practice more effectively 
across the Group’s management cadre. 
SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Lost time accidents
Number of accidents resulting 
in lost time of one shift or more.
157
2009: 240
240
157
2009 2010
Accident frequency rate
Number of hours of lost time 
due to accidents per million 
hours worked.
7.7
2009: 10.9
10.9
7.7
2009 2010
Accident severity rate
Working hours lost as a result 
of accidents as a percentage 
of hours worked.
0.17
2009: 0.23
0.23
0.17
2009 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING Information on safety performance, including
statistics related to our key performance indicators
(KPIs), is reported to the Board quarterly. 
The overall goal is to achieve zero accidents and
our divisions set interim targets against the KPIs,
which reflect the nature of their business and 
their previous performance. In 2009/10, our
continuing emphasis on safety was reflected in 
a 35% reduction in the number of accidents 
that resulted in one shift or more of working time
being lost and a 30% reduction in the accident
frequency rate, which measures all accidents 
in proportion to the number of hours worked.
There was a 28% improvement in the accident
severity rate, which measures the hours lost as a
result of accidents as a percentage of the total
hours worked. The improvements in the Group’s
safety record reflect the leadership shown by the
Group’s managers and the ongoing commitment
of our employees to working safely. As a Group
we remain resolute in our determination to realise
a zero accident culture and to continue to build 
on the progress we have made to date.
ENVIRONMENT
Protecting the environment is an important feature
of DS Smith’s business. We continually seek to
reduce the impact of our own operations on the
environment and to contribute to reducing energy
usage, greenhouse gas emissions and waste
throughout our supply chains. The Group’s 
leading UK position in recycling of paper and
packaging makes a major contribution to
conserving resources and reducing landfill waste.
Our Packaging products are made from recycled
raw materials wherever it is practicable and 
our Packaging businesses use their expertise in
packaging design to assist customers and retailers
in optimising the use of resources and reducing
waste in their supply chains. In corrugated
packaging, which is fully recyclable, we are at 
the forefront of the trend to use lightweight 
paper to lower the weight of packaging used.
Spicers offers its customers an increasingly large
selection of products which are made from
recycled materials, are recyclable or have other
environmentally beneficial features. We continue
to carry out work to evaluate not only the carbon
footprint of our own packaging products but to
better understand the role of our packaging in the
total lifecycle of the product for which it is used.
Recycling
The Group’s operations make a major contribution
to the corrugated packaging recycling process. 
In the UK, Severnside Recycling is the largest
collector of waste paper and an increasingly
significant collector of plastic and other materials
for recycling. It sources waste paper and other
recoverable materials from major supermarkets,
other retailers and industrial operations.
Severnside’s growth into the integrated recycling
and waste management market has been further
underlined by a contract with Marks & Spencer, 
in line with its Plan A principles, to deliver waste
and recycling services across their retail and
distribution estate (see feature on page 4). 
All of the paper produced by the Group is made
from recycled waste paper. St Regis is the UK’s
leading recycler of packaging waste and largest
producer of recycled paper, while DS Smith
Kaysersberg is a significant recycler of waste
paper in France; in total the Group recycled 
1.5 million tonnes of paper in 2009/10. 78% 
of the paper used by the Group’s corrugated
packaging operations in 2009/10 was 100%
recycled paper. The remainder was made from
virgin wood pulp, sourced from producers who
obtain their wood pulp from sustainable forestry
sources, and is required by certain customers 
for its particular strength and appearance
characteristics.
The Group’s paper collection and recycling
operations play an important role in meeting the
EU and UK government objectives for recycling 
of packaging waste, as prescribed in the EU
Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive and
the UK Packaging Waste Regulations. Under the
Directive, the UK is required to recycle at least
60% of all paper packaging; it is well ahead of
this target, with over 80% of paper packaging
being recycled in 2009, and DS Smith is the
largest contributor to this reprocessing.
Packaging and the environment
The conservation of resources and the lowering 
of the amount of waste being disposed of in
landfill are important aspects of caring for our
environment. As a result of this, there is increasing
pressure from society and government to reduce
the overall quantity of packaging in use and to
increase the proportion of packaging that is
recycled. The Group recognises its responsibility
to contribute to the conservation of resources and
we are fulfilling this responsibility through both the
provision of packaging products which enable our
customers to meet their environmental objectives
and the development of our recycling services.
Although packaging receives a lot of attention in
the media, it plays an important part in making
modern lifestyles possible and its significance
should be seen in perspective. Packaging is just
one, often relatively minor, aspect of the total
environmental impact of a product; ten times more
energy goes into the production of the food and
goods that it contains than into the packaging
itself. In the UK, packaging of all types accounts
for less than 5% of total landfill waste and
approximately 20% of household dustbin waste
1
;
approximately 60% of the packaging of all types
used in the UK is recycled
2
.
Our packaging businesses work with their
customers to develop packaging of the 
optimum specification for the required end-use.
Most packaging performs the valuable functions 
of protecting products, reducing product wastage,
enabling more efficient and lower-cost handling
and transportation and, in many cases, 
contributes to lowering the environmental impact
of the supply of goods. The choice of the most
appropriate packaging material and pack design
for a particular product depends upon a wide
range of factors including the nature of the
product itself, how the total supply chain for the
product operates and the requirements of retailers
and consumers.
Corrugated packaging, the Group’s principal
packaging product, is 100% recyclable and in 
the UK over 80% of all corrugated packaging 
is recycled
3
. Although corrugated packaging 
is not generally re-used, it is a fully recyclable
packaging material that is produced
predominantly from recycled paper in what is
essentially a loop system, which is described in
more detail on page 23. Used corrugated boxes
are recycled into paper; this paper is converted
into boxes which are packed with goods; retailers
or consumers discard the used boxes which are
then collected for recycling and delivered to the
paper mill to be turned into paper once again.
Corrugated products are playing an increasingly
important role in the pursuit of sustainable,
environmentally-friendly packaging. The Group
has been at the forefront of the trend to lower the
weight of corrugated packaging used through 
the use of lightweight paper and improved box
design. DS Smith Packaging’s suite of PackRight
BUSINESS REVIEW
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
36 www.dssmith.uk.com
Our ‘Think Safe, Be Safe’ campaign 
has helped us reduce the number of
accidents signiﬁcantly.
1 Source: Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment
(INCPEN)
2 Source: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
(DEFRA)
3 Source: Confederation of Paper Industries (CPI) DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 37
working together to help large supermarket 
chains and other businesses to reduce the 
amount of waste they send to landfill and 
improve their environmental performance with
regard to packaging. 
Environmental management and regulation
The environmental performance and activities 
of the divisions are reviewed at the Group
Environment Committee, which meets three times a
year and is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Under the terms of the Group’s Environment Policy,
which may be viewed on the Group’s website,
www.dssmith.uk.com/CorporateResponsibility.asp
each of our sites is required to implement an
environmental management system (EMS) which is
appropriate to its activity. Of our total operations,
57 sites have been identified as having higher
potential environmental impact, due to their size
or type of activity and all 57 are accredited under
the internationally recognised ISO 14001 EMS
standard. The Group’s other 47 sites are required
to have in place a simplified EMS, appropriate 
to their lower level of potential environmental
impact, and to review and improve these systems
regularly, often with the assistance of external
auditors. A single smaller site, acquired during 
the year is in the process of having a simplified
EMS put in place. As part of their EMS, many
Group businesses have procedures in place for
assessing their suppliers’ environmental policies
and management systems, as appropriate.
The Group had a number of minor environmental
incidents during the year, following which 
prompt corrective action and steps to prevent any
recurrence were taken and, where necessary, the
appropriate agencies were informed. As reported
last year, the Environment Agency has brought a
case against St Regis Paper Company Ltd in
relation to alleged breaches of Higher Kings 
Mill’s Pollution Prevention and Control (PPC)
permit that occurred between December 2005
and March 2008. The charges primarily relate 
to the training of staff, record keeping and 
the operation of the plant; an independent
investigation has indicated that these breaches 
did not result in any significant environmental
impact. The outcome of the case is unlikely to be
known before the end of calendar year 2010. 
The circumstances surrounding all environmental
incidents are investigated immediately and, when
appropriate, the findings and lessons learnt are
communicated throughout the Group as part of
our drive to reduce such incidents.
The Group’s paper manufacturing operations
account for over 80% of the Group’s
environmental impact, particularly because their
manufacturing process uses large quantities of
energy and water. The UK paper mills are
regulated through PPC permits under which they
each have specific improvement programmes 
and targets. St Regis’ overall compliance with its
environmental permits rose to 94% in 2009/10
(2008/09: 93%, restated from 94% to include 
an additional permit) principally due to better
performance of the effluent treatment plant at
Higher Kings Mill. St Regis is a key participant in
the UK paper sector Climate Change Levy (CCL)
Agreement with the Department of Environment,
Food and Rural Affairs under which the industry
has undertaken to achieve energy consumption
reduction targets. St Regis met its previous targets
and remains on course to meet its next target for
the year to September 2010. 
The Group’s UK and French paper operations 
are subject to the terms of their respective 
national schemes for implementing the EU
Emissions Trading Directive. We expect the
Group’s emissions to be slightly below our
emissions allocations during EU ETS Phase 2. 
The effects of subsequent phases from 2013
onwards are likely to be more onerous, being
dependent upon the details of the emissions
allocations and the market price of carbon 
under future phases of the scheme.
Environmental performance
Our businesses continue to take action and invest
in order to reduce their environmental impact.
During the year, we again employed independent
consultants, Bureau Veritas, to review our
environmental data collection and reporting
process in order to ensure the robustness and
accuracy of the Group’s environmental
performance indicators. This review concluded
that overall there was a good level of process
control and reporting at the sites but identified
some areas for improvement, particularly in
relation to the conversion factors being used for
converting energy usage into carbon emissions.
The recommendations of Bureau Veritas have
been implemented. The Group’s overall
environmental performance in 2009/10 is shown
in the table on page 38. A fuller report on our
environmental performance is available in the
Corporate Responsibility section of our website.
The Group consumed 0.5% more energy in
2009/10 compared with the previous year. 
This increase was principally due to higher 
activity levels at the speciality paper mills in the
UK and the recommissioning of a CHP plant at
one of the mills. The Group’s paper mills reduced
their energy usage per tonne of paper produced
by 0.8%, partly due to the closure of a less
energy-efficient paper machine in early 2009. 
The increase in own use of energy was offset by 
a reduction in energy purchased by the Group,
such that a reduction of 1.5% in total emissions of
CO
2
was achieved in the year. The Group’s total
water usage was 4.5% lower than in 2008/09,
principally as a result of the closure of the paper
machine mentioned above. The total amount of
tools enables the analysis of all the factors relating
to a particular pack to ensure that it is fit for
purpose, makes the supply chain efficient and
reduces environmental impact. In many instances
our design and technical expertise enables the
customer to reduce the weight of raw materials
used in a pack as well as to pack the goods more
efficiently; this reduces transport costs and thereby
the carbon emissions per unit.
In circumstances where packaging is designed to
be re-used many times, plastic returnable transit
packaging may be required by customers if the
packaging can be readily recovered, transported
and cleaned for re-use. Plastic bag-in-box
packaging is increasingly being used to contain
liquids in bulk as well as for consumer use. 
It has significant benefits for storing and
transporting beverages and other liquids
hygienically and securely, and can substantially
extend the storage life of products, thus reducing
product wastage. Bag-in-box packs are, in many
instances, environmentally superior to alternative
packaging formats; they use space efficiently and
are relatively lightweight compared with bottles 
or drums so they may reduce the overall energy
usage in the supply chain because they can be
transported and stored more efficiently. 
Rapak, our bag-in-box manufacturer, has launched
an initiative to promote the environmental benefits
of the format among end consumers. The business
has developed a logo which can be printed on
both the bag and the box to convey the message
that ‘bag-in-box technology is green’. The logo
has been introduced to help companies who use
bag-in-box provide valuable reassurance to their
customer while at the same time contributing to 
an enhanced brand image for their products. 
The basis for the introduction of the logo is the
independent Life Cycle Assessment of bag-in-box
packaging, commissioned by Rapak from PIRA
(the Paper and Board, Printing and Packaging
Association), which was completed last year. 
The PIRA report assessed and compared the
potential life cycle environmental impacts of 
bag-in-box technology with alternative liquid
packaging formats in key markets including wine,
postmix syrup, dairy, edible oils, chemicals,
industrial products, aseptic and bulk packaging.
The overall findings, which are published at
www.rapak.com/pages/environment.asp,
confirmed that bag-in-box has excellent
environmental credentials that are at least
competitive with, and in many cases superior 
to, alternative packaging formats.
Our Packaging businesses continue to carry out
work to evaluate the carbon footprint of their
products. This work is enabling us to collaborate
with other companies in our supply chain on
analyses of the total environmental impact of
products that use our packaging. DS Smith
Packaging and Severnside Recycling are 
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING waste generated by our businesses increased by
8.9% partly due to an increase in the proportion
of more complex corrugated boxes which give rise
to more off-cut waste. Waste sent to landfill was
1.4% lower and the proportion of waste sent to
landfill fell to 15% compared with 16% in the
previous year. 
Energy efficiency
Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the 
UK and Kaysersberg in France, which account 
for approximately 65% of the Group’s energy
usage, have on-site CHP plants. These CHP
facilities provide energy more efficiently, with
lower carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions and at
significantly lower cost than if it were to be
sourced from the external grid. In addition,
Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of energy
recovery, a substantial proportion of the reject
material, such as plastic and polystyrene, which
enters its process mixed in with the waste paper
and is separated out during paper manufacture;
the mill’s own waste-to-energy plant efficiently
recovers the energy to produce steam for use in
the mill’s operations. We are investigating the
potential for installing a sustainable energy plant
at Kemsley Mill to reduce the mill’s reliance on
fossil fuels and applied for planning permission 
for this in April 2010. The proposed fuel for this
plant is hard-to-recycle materials, sourced and 
pre-treated offsite, which might otherwise go 
to landfill.
DS Smith Packaging, which in 2008 became 
the first UK corrugated packaging producer to 
be accredited under the UK’s Energy Efficiency
Accreditation Scheme, lowered its energy usage
per square metre by 1.4%. This was achieved
through its division-wide energy management
system and a wide range of energy reduction
projects. Both DS Smith Packaging and DS Smith
Kaysersberg have achieved substantial
improvements in their energy efficiency through
programmes of process improvements on their
corrugator machines (see feature on page 9).
EMPLOYEES
We aim to create a working environment which 
will attract, retain and motivate good people, and
enable them to fulfil their potential. The Group
ensures that the divisions have in place appropriate
structures, procedures and resources to implement
the employee-related aspects of the Group’s Key
Corporate Values, which include: providing fair
opportunities for employment to all; treating
everyone with dignity and respect; not tolerating
any form of harassment or discrimination; ensuring
advancement is based on merit; and providing
appropriate training and development
opportunities. Our businesses carry out training
and implement various initiatives aimed at
reinforcing our values and policies in this area. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
38 www.dssmith.uk.com
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1
2009/10 2008/09
Energy consumption
1
Gigawatt hours 3,264 3,247
Megawatt hours/£’000 revenue 1.58 1.54
Carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions
2
Scope 1 (direct) emissions – ‘000 tonnes 277 274
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions – ‘000 tonnes 643 653
Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions – ‘000 tonnes 920 927
Kilograms/£’000 revenue 444 440
Water usage
Million cubic metres 10.9 11.4
‘000 cubic metres/£’000 revenue 5.2 5.4
Waste management
3
Waste recycled – ‘000 tonnes 158 135
Waste sent to landspread – ‘000 tonnes 144 130
Waste-to-Energy – ‘000 tonnes 105 102
Waste sent to landﬁll – ‘000 tonnes 70 71
Total waste generated 477 438
Kilograms/£’000 revenue 230 208
% of total waste sent to landﬁll 15% 16%
Methodology: The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Global
Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is currently practicable. The figures reported above
include data from all of the Group’s wholly-owned or majority-owned operations and sites worldwide. The methodology used is
consistent for 2008/09 and 2009/10.
1 The energy figures relate to the usage of all fuels used in fixed installations on the Group’s sites plus the diesel fuel used for freight transport.
2 The CO
2
emissions have been calculated using the energy data, as defined above. The factors used for converting gas, coal, fuel oil and
diesel usage into CO
2
emissions are the latest factors for each year as published by the UK Department for the Environment and Rural Affairs
(DEFRA) in the Guidelines to DEFRA’s GHG Conversion Factors; the factor used for converting gas usage changed from 0.19 tonnes of CO
2
per megawatt hour in 2008/09 to 0.18 tonnes of CO
2
per megawatt hour in 2009/10. The factors used for converting electricity usage
are the national figures for each country in which the Group operates sourced from the International Energy Agency Data Services via the UK
Carbon Trust; these factors therefore reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country. As required by the GHGP , Scope 1
and Scope 2 CO
2
emissions are reported separately. Scope 1 (direct) emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or
vehicles owned by the Group; Scope 2 (indirect) emissions are those arising from bought-in energy (i.e. electricity or steam) where the
combustion has been carried out by another company. The 2009/10 Scope 1 emissions included 57,000 tonnes (2008/09: 61,000
tonnes) of CO
2
which were associated with the production of electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our CHP plants. Scope 3
emissions from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Group’s products and services are not included.
3 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for
recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations. The data on waste identifies separately: a) the amount of waste that is
conventionally recycled in the manufacture of other products, b) the quantity of waste cellulose fibre, generated in the paper-making
operations, which is recycled through agricultural use as landspread, c) the quantity of waste that is used for energy recovery at our
waste-to-energy plant, and d) the waste that goes to landfill.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LTD
For the second year we have worked with DS Smith Plc to provide an independent opinion on the Environmental Performance
Indicators presented on this page of its 2010 Annual Report. Having completed a process incorporating site visits, document review
and interrogation of associated management and reporting systems, it is our opinion that the presented performance indicators provide
a fair and accurate representation of DS Smith Plc’s performance.
DS Smith Plc should be commended on its approach to data collection, which remains consistent across the divisions with a clear
understanding of required processes demonstrated by those with responsibilities in this regard at both divisional and site level. It is
clear that DS Smith Plc is constantly looking to improve these processes; both via internal mechanisms, and as demonstrated in the
proactive manner in which the company has continued to engage Bureau Veritas on this project, as well as its consideration of
recommendations arising from the previous year’s verification. 
Bureau Veritas encourages DS Smith Plc to further define and document its environmental reporting responsibilities and data collection
procedures, to continue to improve the monitoring of its performance by initiating a half-yearly review of consolidated performance
data, and to explore the feasibility of extending performance data to stakeholders by increasing the scope of its reported greenhouse
gas emissions. 
A full verification statement including our methodology, basis for our opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement
of Bureau Veritas independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc website (www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/CorporateResponsibility.asp).
June 2010
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd
London DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 39
The Group is committed to applying equal
opportunities in all recruitment and employment
practices. It is also committed, as a minimum, 
to meeting the labour rights and legislation
requirements in each of the countries in which 
it operates; in practice the Group often exceeds
the local and international requirements. 
As DS Smith’s operations are almost entirely
located in member countries of the OECD, 
human rights matters are not perceived as a
significant Group risk.
Recruitment and retention of employees is not 
a significant issue for most of the Group’s
operations but the situation varies depending
upon the alternative employment opportunities 
in any particular location and the skills required. 
Our divisions and businesses communicate with,
and consult, their people through newsletters,
intranets, briefing meetings, local works councils,
national employee forums and a European Works
Council. Many of our businesses have increased
the level of internal communications in light of the
present difficult economic environment to ensure
that employees are aware of the business’s plans
and objectives. Employee surveys have been
carried out in a number of parts of the Group.
Generally the results of these have been positive;
action has been taken to address any particular
issues that have been highlighted.
Training and development programmes are
carried out by the Group’s businesses to meet their
specific needs for raising operational performance
and career development. The individual training
and development needs of employees are 
met through a variety of schemes including:
management development programmes, which 
in some cases involve external accreditation;
support for study for external vocational and
professional qualifications; and schemes for
coaching and mentoring managers, using 
external and internal resources.
In 2009, DS Smith initiated a three-year
development programme for its senior business
leaders. The programme has been designed and
run in partnership with Warwick Business School.
This has enabled the Group to develop bespoke
content which combines the latest academic
thinking with practical application to the 
Group’s businesses. 
The principal aim of the programme is to enhance
managers’ understanding of the strategic issues
facing the Group and to build the leadership
capabilities needed to meet these challenges. 
The programme also offers managers an
opportunity to reflect on their personal leadership
style and to consider their performance against
external benchmarks. To date, 60 senior
managers have participated in the programme
and it has been exceptionally well received. 
Over the coming year, the Management
Development Programme will be extended to
cover a wider range of topics and will be
supported by external coaching schemes. 
In 2010, DS Smith will also begin a development
programme for the Group’s high potential
employees; this will be a further demonstration 
of the Group’s commitment to developing its 
talent pool.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
We seek to develop and maintain good relations
in the local communities in which we operate; 
this is particularly important as in many of the
locations where we operate we are one of the
largest employers. As well as providing significant
employment opportunities, we aim to make
positive contributions to our communities and build
a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
Our businesses work closely with local schools
and colleges providing training, mentoring, work
experience placements and other opportunities 
for pupils to learn about industry and business.
The Group is involved in a wide range of other
local community activities including sponsorship of
community projects or sports teams and provision
of adult skills training. Our businesses participate
in liaison groups with local residents, particularly
at locations where there is a need to review 
ways in which we can reduce any inconvenience
to neighbours from our operations as a result of
traffic movements, odour or noise. Some sites hold
open days to foster relationships with their local
communities. The Group supports charitable fund-
raising activities through cash contributions and 
in the form of products and services or staff time.
The majority of the modest amount of money
donated by the Group is given by individual
operating units, principally to good causes in 
their local communities. Donations by the Group
headquarters are principally focused on helping
young disadvantaged people become involved in
business and working life.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE
Directors and Company Secretary
40 www.dssmith.uk.com
Peter Johnson
+
Miles Roberts
§+
Chairman
Appointed to the Board on 8 December 1999 as
a non-Executive Director. He became Chairman 
of the Board on 1 January 2007 and is Chairman
of the Nomination Committee. He is a Member of
the Supervisory Board of Wienerberger AG and
is a non-Executive Director of SSL International plc.
He was previously Chief Executive of George
Wimpey Plc and prior to that Chief Executive 
of The Rugby Group PLC. Age 62.
Group Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board on 4 May 2010 as
Group Chief Executive. He was previously Chief
Executive of McBride plc from July 2005 until
April 2010, having originally joined as its Group
Finance Director in January 2002. He was a 
non-Executive Director of Care UK plc until 
May 2010. Age 46.
Steve Dryden
§
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008 as
Group Finance Director. He is a non-Executive
Director of Fiberweb plc. He previously held 
the position of Finance Director of Filtrona plc
following its demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005.
Prior to that he was divisional Finance Director 
of the Filtrona businesses and held other senior
finance positions within Bunzl plc. He began his
career at Price Waterhouse and has also held
various finance roles within Rolls-Royce plc. 
Age 42.
Christopher Bunker
†+
*
#
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2003 
as a non-Executive Director. He is the Senior
Independent Director and until recently was
Chairman of the Audit Committee. He was
previously Group Finance Director of Thames
Water Plc, Tarmac Plc and Westland Group Plc.
He is a non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc
and was a non-Executive Director of Mowlem Plc,
Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa plc. 
Age 63.
Bob Beeston
†
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board on 5 December 2000 
as a non-Executive Director. Until recently he 
was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also Chairman of Elementis plc and was
previously Chief Executive of FKI plc and until 
May 2010 was Chairman of Cookson Group plc.
Age 68. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 41
Gareth Davis
†+
*
#
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 as a 
non-Executive Director. He became Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee at the end of June
2010. He was Group Chief Executive of Imperial
Tobacco Group PLC until May 2010 and is a 
non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc. Age 60.
Philippe Mellier
†
*
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board on 7 September 2006 
as a non-Executive Director. He is currently
President of Alstom Transport and an Executive
Vice-President of Alstom Group. Previously, he 
was Chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks 
and a Member of the Executive Committee 
of AB Volvo, and prior to that held senior
management positions with Renault S.A. 
and Ford Motor Company. Age 54.
† Non-Executive Director
§ Member of General Purposes Committee
+ Member of Nomination Committee
* Member of Remuneration Committee
# Member of Audit Committee
Jonathan Nicholls
†+#
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2009 as
a non-Executive Director. He became Chairman 
of the Audit Committee at the end of June 2010.
He was previously Group Finance Director of
Hanson Plc and, most recently, Group Finance
Director of Old Mutual Plc. He is a non-Executive
Director of Great Portland Estates plc and 
SIG plc and was a non-Executive Director of 
Man Group Plc. Age 52.
Carolyn Cattermole
Company Secretary
Appointed Company Secretary on 20 November
2000. She was previously Company Secretary 
of Courtaulds Textiles plc and prior to that was a
senior legal adviser with Courtaulds plc, having
qualified as a solicitor with Norton Rose. Age 49.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE 
Corporate Governance 
 
42 www.dssmith.uk.com 
The Company is committed to the principle and application of sound 
corporate governance. This report explains the key features of the 
Group’s governance structure, how it applies the principles set out in the 
Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC Combined Code  
on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 (the ‘Combined Code’) 
and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions  
of the Combined Code. 
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the 
provisions of the Combined Code, except as stated on page 43 in 
respect of Nomination Committee membership (Combined Code A.4.1), 
in respect of Audit Committee membership (Combined Code C.3.1) and 
in respect of Remuneration Committee membership (Combined Code 
B.2.1). The Board has an ongoing review of its corporate governance 
policy. Further explanation of how the principles and supporting 
principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. The Company’s Auditors have reviewed the 
compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code specified for 
their review. 
BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES 
The role of the Board 
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of  
the Company by directing and supervising the Company’s affairs.  
The Board’s role is to provide leadership of the Company within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be 
assessed and managed.  
The Board sets the Company’s strategic aims, ensures that the necessary 
financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its 
objectives and reviews management performance.  
In addition, the Board sets the Company’s values and standards and 
ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood 
and met. 
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and five  
non-Executive Directors. The offices of Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are held separately. During the year, each of the non-Executive 
Directors has at all times acted independently of management and has  
no relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement and decision-making.  
It is recognised that Mr Beeston was not considered a fully independent 
non-Executive Director after 5 December 2009 because of his length  
of service, however, the Board believes that Mr Beeston continues to 
demonstrate strong independence in judgement and, during the year 
under review, provided leadership for the Remuneration Committee. 
Summary of Board changes in the year 
Month Change 
August 2009 Mr R E C Marton retired from the  
Board, Audit, Remuneration and  
Nomination Committees. 
December 2009 Mr J C Nicholls was appointed as a  
non-Executive Director and joined the  
Audit and Nomination Committees. 
January 2010 Mr R G Beeston stepped down as Senior 
Independent Director but remains on the  
Board. Mr C J Bunker was appointed as  
Senior Independent Director. 
May 2010 
Mr A D Thorne retired from the Board and 
Nomination Committee and as Group Chief 
Executive. Mr M W Roberts was appointed  
to the Board and as Group Chief Executive  
and joined the Nomination Committee. 
June 2010 
Mr G Davis was appointed as a 
non-Executive Director and became  
a member of the Remuneration,  
Audit and Nomination Committees. 
 
Mr Davis will become Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee at the end of  
June 2010. 
Mr Nicholls will become Chairman of the  
Audit Committee at the end of June 2010. 
The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year. During the year 
under review it met nine times. All Board members attend all Board and 
relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances prevent 
them from attending. During the year, Mr P J-C Mellier did not attend the 
May 2009 Board and the May and June 2009 Remuneration Committee 
meetings due to previous commitments. He was unable to attend the 
additional Board meeting held in July 2009 as it was held at short notice. 
He was also unable to attend the Board meeting held in October 2009 
due to ill health. Mr Beeston did not attend the Board meeting and the 
Remuneration Committee meeting held in March 2010 due to ill health. 
There were no other absences from any Board or Committee meetings by 
any Director. In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors and 
hold informal meetings with non-Executive Directors to discuss issues 
affecting the Company. Individual Directors are encouraged to make site 
visits during the year. The Board reviews the performance of the Group 
and undertakes a strategic review on an annual basis. There is a formal 
schedule of matters reserved for consideration and approval by the 
Board. These include the annual Plan, substantial acquisitions and 
disposals, the approval of the full-year and half-year results and a review 
of the overall system of internal control and risk management.  
The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely 
information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles 
effectively. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. A procedure is in place for any Director to take 
independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the 
Company’s expense. No such advice was sought by any Director during 
the year. The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to 
ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and 
regulation changes, corporate governance developments and changing 
commercial risks. On appointment, new Directors are given appropriate 
induction training, tailored to their specific needs, taking into account 
their individual qualifications and experience, which includes individual   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 43 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
time with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director and site visits to major business units. 
Following an independent review in 2009, the Board carried out a 
comprehensive appraisal of its performance in February 2010 which  
was led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.  
The review comprised feedback from a questionnaire and individual 
discussions. All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in  
the exercise. The results were discussed by the Board at its meeting in 
March 2010. The process confirmed that each of the current Directors 
has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute effectively to 
the Board and its Committees. The review results showed an improvement 
from the previous year indicating that the Directors considered that no 
major changes were required to Board and Committee processes. In 
particular, the Board in the past year had achieved a good balance 
between consideration of matters relating to the short-term economic crisis 
and longer-term strategic issues. All Directors had been fully engaged in 
a well-structured succession exercise for both the Group Chief Executive  
and non-Executive Directors. Useful comments and suggestions were  
made as to how the performance of the Board might be further improved. 
These included more contact with divisional management, ideas on the 
reporting of action points arising from previous meetings and more 
contact between the Group Chief Executive and non-Executive Directors 
between meetings. It was also agreed that the Nomination Committee 
should increase its focus on succession planning at levels below the 
Board. In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted a review  
of the performance of the Chairman which concluded that the Chairman 
had led the Board effectively. The non-Executive Directors (apart from  
Mr Beeston who was unable to attend due to ill health) met separately 
with the Chairman in March and all the non-Executive Directors and the 
Executive Directors met in March to give them the opportunity to discuss 
any matters they wished to raise in the absence of the Chairman. 
Board Committees 
The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. All Board Committees have written terms of 
reference agreed by the Board. These are available on the Company’s 
website at www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/CorporateGovernance.asp or  
are available on request to the Company Secretary. The Audit Committee 
was chaired by Mr Bunker from 2004 until the end of June 2010 and  
will now be chaired by Mr Nicholls. The Remuneration Committee was 
chaired by Mr Beeston from 2001 until the end of June 2010 and will 
now be chaired by Mr Davis. The Nomination Committee is chaired by 
Mr P M Johnson. The membership of each Committee and the experience 
of its members can be seen on pages 40 and 41. The Audit and 
Remuneration Committees comprised independent non-Executive  
Directors for the majority of the year. However, Mr Beeston is no longer 
considered an independent non-Executive Director since December 2009 
by reason of his length of service (Combined Code C.3.1 and B.2.1).  
The Nomination Committee comprised a majority of independent non-
Executive Directors for most of the year. According to Combined Code 
A.4.1, Mr Beeston is no longer considered an independent non-Executive 
Director since December 2009 by reason of his length of service.  
As mentioned in the Chairman’s Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston  
will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2010. 
Audit Committee 
In addition to the Committee members listed on pages 40 and 41, the 
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the 
Head of Operational Audit and the Group Financial Controller attended 
parts of each meeting by invitation. Mr Marton ceased to be a member  
of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on 31 August 2009. 
The Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker had current and relevant financial 
experience during his Chairmanship of the Committee and that  
Mr Nicholls has both current and relevant financial experience. 
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least three 
times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined Code 
except the oversight of business risks which is the direct responsibility of 
the Board. The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the 
Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to: 
• the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the 
Group’s accounts; 
• external financial reporting and associated announcements; 
• the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration  
of the Group’s Auditors; 
• the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Group Operational  
Audit department; 
• the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control environment; 
and 
• the Group’s compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance. 
The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external 
Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit and the Group Finance  
Director. Under its terms of reference the Committee is empowered to  
seek independent external advice but did not do so during the year. 
The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine annually 
their qualifications, expertise, resources, independence, objectivity, and 
effectiveness. The Audit Committee receives written confirmation from the 
external Auditors as to any relationships that might have a bearing on 
their independence, whether they consider themselves independent within 
the meaning of the UK regulatory and professional requirements, their 
quality control processes and ethical standards. 
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of the Auditors, the 
Committee maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor Independence 
Policy which covers services which may be provided by, and fees paid 
to, auditors. Audit fees are negotiated with the Group Finance Director 
and approved by the Audit Committee. The policy on the supply of  
non-audit services by external auditors is as follows. The Group should 
not employ the Auditors to provide non-audit services where either  
the nature of the work or the extent of such services might impair the 
Auditors’ independence or objectivity. The external Auditors are permitted 
to undertake some non-audit services, providing they have the skill, 
competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the 
Group, on, for example, advisory services and due diligence activities 
associated with potential acquisitions and disposals and major changes  
in accounting regulations. Non-audit services and fees are reported  
to the Audit Committee twice a year. For guidance, annual non-audit  
fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of the 
annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the Committee. 
During 2009/10, non-audit fees were 15.6% of the annual Group audit 
fee. Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required by  
this Policy which specifies that individual projects which would cost over 
£100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of the Committee for prior 
approval. The outcome of these reviews was not only that performance  
of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was the most cost-effective 
way of conducting business but also that no conflicts of interest existed 
between such audit and non-audit work. 
Deloitte LLP, a leading international audit partnership, was first  
appointed as Auditor to the Group companies in 2006 and its fees are 
regularly compared with peer companies by the Committee. There are  
no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to its appointment.  
In accordance with professional standards, the partner responsible for  
the audit is changed every five years.  GOVERNANCE 
Corporate Governance continued 
 
44 www.dssmith.uk.com 
During the year, the Committee met on three occasions and there were no 
absences. On each of these occasions the Committee also met privately 
with both the external Auditors and the Head of Operational Audit.  
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private meetings 
during the year with the external Auditors, the Head of Operational  
Audit and the Group Finance Director. The Committee received sufficient, 
reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its 
responsibilities. The Committee is satisfied that the Group’s executive 
compensation arrangements do not prejudice robust controls and  
good stewardship. 
At its meeting in June, the Committee reviewed the annual financial 
statements of the Company and received reports from Group Operational 
Audit on internal control matters and from the external Auditors on the 
conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of 
judgement and the financial statements and their comments on statements 
concerning risk and internal control. A similar review was undertaken  
in December when the half-year results were considered. At these 
meetings and the meeting in April, the Committee dealt with the following 
particular matters: 
• at the year end a series of tests were undertaken to determine whether 
there had been any impairment to the balance sheet carrying values  
of goodwill and other intangible assets. The key assumptions behind 
these calculations can be found in note 10 to the financial statements; 
• at each meeting it received a report from the Head of Operational 
Audit covering, amongst other things, the work undertaken by the 
Group Operational Audit function and management responses to 
proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during  
the year; 
• it considered the effectiveness of systems for monitoring and reporting 
on risks faced by the Group; 
• it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee 
(as part of the Board evaluation process referred to on page 43), the 
external Auditors and Group Operational Audit, the results of which 
were reported to the Board. The Committee concluded that each area 
operated satisfactorily during the year; and 
• it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the 
Group’s Workplace Malpractice Policy. 
Nomination Committee 
Mr Marton ceased to be a member of the Committee when he resigned 
from the Board on 31 August 2009 and Mr Thorne ceased to be a 
member of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on 4 May 
2010. Mr Nicholls became a member of the Committee in December 
2009, Mr Roberts became a member in May 2010 and Mr Davis 
became a member in June 2010. The Nomination Committee evaluates 
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience (including the length  
of service of each Director) of the Board, develops role specifications, 
considers the appointment of Directors, reviews succession planning at 
Board level, identifies the skills required of future directors and makes 
recommendations to the Board as a whole. A rigorous process is in  
place for the appointment of new Directors, involving the use of external 
recruitment consultants followed by meetings both with the Committee and 
then with the Board. The Committee met four times during the year and 
there were no absences. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board 
performance evaluation process described above. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings  
by invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed.  
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary and for advising on the remuneration of senior management. 
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 46 to 55. During the year,  
the Committee met four times. Mr Mellier did not attend the meetings in 
May and June 2009, and due to ill health Mr Beeston did not attend the 
meeting in March 2010, but otherwise there were no absences. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board 
performance evaluation process described above. 
Other Board Committees 
The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, to 
the General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of the 
Group Chief Executive. 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’s Articles of Association permit the Board of Directors to 
authorise a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest notified by a 
Director provided that the Board considers this to be in the best interests 
of the Company. 
Each of the Directors in office as at 1 October 2008 reviewed their 
individual positions prior to implementation of the new legislation  
and new Directors review their individual position prior to joining the 
Board. Directors are reminded from time to time of their obligations.  
The Company has put procedures in place via the Company Secretary 
whereby the Directors can notify any future conflicts or potential conflicts 
of interest that may arise so that the Board can consider whether 
authorisation is appropriate. Any notifications are considered at the next 
Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised. Directors do 
not participate in the discussion, or vote regarding their own conflicts.  
If authorised, any conflicts are entered in the Conflicts Register.  
An annual review of conflicts is carried out and this is incorporated into 
the year-end process of verifying Directors’ interests. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The Company has a programme of regular meetings (which sometimes 
includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director), site visits 
and results briefings with its major institutional shareholders, which 
provides opportunities to discuss the progress of the business. 
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial Services 
Authority’s Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of inside information to 
ensure the protection of such information that has not already been made 
available generally to the Company’s shareholders. The Board also 
receives feedback from major shareholders in the form of independently 
prepared reports. Together, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, and Head of Investor Relations ensure the Board is  
fully briefed on shareholders’ views such that any issues or concerns are 
fully understood and considered by the Board. The Senior Independent 
Director is available to discuss with shareholders any major issues that 
cannot be resolved through normal channels. 
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate 
with private shareholders, including a short presentation on the business 
and current trading position as well as an opportunity for questions from 
investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit  
and Remuneration Committees. All Directors made themselves available  
to meet shareholders at the Annual General Meeting after the formal 
business of the meeting. To ensure compliance with the Code, separate 
resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject. The number of proxy 
votes for, against and withheld for each resolution are displayed at the 
Meeting. The final results are published through a Regulatory Information 
Service and on the website following the Meeting.    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 45 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through  
the full-year and half-year reports and via the Company’s website, 
www.dssmith.uk.com. In addition, the Company provides Interim 
Management Statements and Trading Updates. 
INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system, however,  
can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can 
therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. In accordance with the Turnbull Committee 
guidance the Company has established the procedures necessary to 
ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks to the Group. These procedures have been 
in place for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2010 and up 
to the date of the approval of these financial statements and they are 
reviewed regularly. In 2008, a Group Risks Committee was established, 
comprised of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the 
Group Human Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional 
Chief Executives and the Head of Operational Audit. This Committee 
meets at least four times a year to review the risks faced by the Group 
and the adequacy and suitability of the mitigation arrangements in place 
to manage those risks. 
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.  
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which are required to 
be brought to it for decision. The Board has delegated to management 
the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate 
to the business environments in which the Group operates. Key elements 
of this system include: 
• a set of Key Corporate Values which have been communicated to  
all employees; 
• a clearly defined divisionalised organisation structure for monitoring  
the conduct and operations of individual business units; 
• clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the 
matters reserved for the Board; 
• a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Group’s 
operations are identified and assessed on a regular basis, together  
with the controls in place to mitigate these risks. Risk consideration is 
embedded in decision-making processes. The most significant risks are 
periodically reported to the Board and considered by it; 
• the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and 
Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of  
the corporate strategy; 
• the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, 
forecasts (including bank covenant headroom) and the previous year, 
with explanations obtained for all significant variances; 
• clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment, 
including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, 
acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval; 
• procedures manuals laying down common control procedures and 
policies to apply throughout the Group; and 
• formal monthly meetings between the Group Chief Executive, the 
Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss 
strategic, operational and financial issues. 
The Group’s Operational Audit function undertakes regular reviews  
of the Group’s operations and their systems of internal control and  
internal financial control. The work of the function is overseen by the  
Audit Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities.  
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of  
the Group’s system of internal control. This included a process of self-
certification by senior divisional management in which they were asked  
to confirm that their divisions have complied with Group policies and 
procedures and to report any significant control weaknesses identified 
during the past year. It also involved reviewing the results of the work of 
the Group’s Operational Audit function and the risk identification and 
management processes identified above. 
GOING CONCERN 
A review of the Group’s business activities, together with the factors  
likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set  
out on pages 16 and 17 in the Group Chief Executive’s review of the 
year. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are shown in the Consolidated Statement  
of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the 
accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on  
pages 60 to 105 and in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31.  
Further information concerning the Group’s objectives, policies and 
process for managing its capital, its financial risk management  
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities,  
and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the 
section covering risk management on pages 32 and 33. 
Management’s review of liquidity and the adherence to banking 
covenants takes into account the Group’s budget and forecasts for the  
next two financial years. Furthermore, the forecasts have been subjected  
to a number of ‘downside’ and mitigation scenarios in order to evaluate 
the impact on liquidity and adherence to banking covenants if the 
Group’s plans are not achieved. A summary of the outcome of this 
evaluation by management has been provided to, and discussed with,  
the Board of Directors. 
In arriving at their opinion, the Directors have taken into account the  
risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic 
environment. These risks are described in the section covering risk 
management (pages 32 and 33). The planning assumptions and 
sensitivities of these risks are covered on pages 32 and 33. The principal 
risks and uncertainties which would have a direct impact on liquidity and 
banking covenants are summarised below: 
• changes in the demand for, or pricing of, the Group’s products  
and services as a result of general economic conditions or market-
specific factors; 
• volatility of pricing and availability of globally-traded raw materials; 
• volatile energy prices; 
• movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates; 
• the funding position of the Group’s UK defined benefit pension scheme; 
• the continuing availability of banking facilities, including compliance 
with borrowing covenants; and 
• customer credit risk. 
The Directors consider that the Group has the flexibility to react to 
changing market conditions.  
The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties as summarised 
above and, after making enquiries, including a review of recent 
performance, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of 
approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to  
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  GOVERNANCE 
Remuneration Report 
46 www.dssmith.uk.com 
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, 
shareholders’ approval of the Remuneration Report will be sought at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). The Remuneration Report 
has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
(A) COMPOSITION AND ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE (‘THE COMMITTEE’)  
The members of the Committee during the year under review were  
Mr R G Beeston (Chairman), Mr C J Bunker, Mr P J-C Mellier and  
Mr R E C Marton (until 31 August 2009). Mr G Davis became a  
member of the Committee when he joined the Board on 1 June 2010. 
With the exception of Mr Beeston, all the members are considered 
independent. Since 5 December 2009, Mr Beeston is no longer 
considered independent because of his length of service (Combined  
Code B.2.1). However, the Board believes that Mr Beeston continues to 
demonstrate strong independence in judgement and, during the year 
under review, provided leadership for the Committee. Mr Davis will 
become Chairman of the Committee at the end of June 2010. 
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest,  
other than as shareholders of the Company, in the matters to be  
decided by the Committee, no potential conflicts of interest arising from 
cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business. 
The Committee operates under written terms of reference agreed  
by the Board which are available on the Company’s website, 
www.dssmith.uk.com/downloads/RemunerationCommittee.pdf.  
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of 
Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Company and the Company 
Secretary. It also considers the remuneration of senior executives  
reporting to the Group Chief Executive (taking into account 
recommendations from him). 
(B) COMPLIANCE  
The Board, in conjunction with the Committee, has taken the necessary 
steps to ensure that the Company complies with the provisions of  
the Combined Code, except in relation to the independence of  
Mr Beeston as explained above, which relate to Directors’ remuneration. 
Certain disclosures in this Report fall within the scope of matters for 
review by the Auditors. 
(C) ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE  
Hewitt New Bridge Street has been appointed by the Committee to 
provide advice on the remuneration of Executive Directors and other 
senior executives. Hewitt New Bridge Street also provides advice to the 
Company in connection with the operation of the Company’s share-based 
incentive schemes. The Committee consults with the Chairman of the 
Company and with the Group Chief Executive, who may attend meetings 
of the Committee, although they are not involved in deciding their own 
remuneration. The Committee is assisted by the Company Secretary and 
the Group Human Resources Director, and also receives advice from 
Mercer Limited, the Actuary to the Company’s pension scheme, in relation 
to Executive Directors’ pensions. Hewitt New Bridge Street is a signatory 
to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Advisers. Hewitt New Bridge 
Street provided no other services to the Company during the year. 
(D) GENERAL POLICY ON REMUNERATION  
The Committee’s overall policy is to ensure that the remuneration 
packages enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate Executive 
Directors and other senior managers of sufficient calibre to meet the 
Company’s needs. In addition, the remuneration packages are designed 
to align the interests of executives and shareholders and to link a 
significant proportion of executives’ remuneration to performance.  
To achieve this, the Company operates cash and share-based incentive 
schemes which are linked to the achievement of short-term and long-term 
performance targets. As in previous years, the main elements of the 
remuneration policy in 2010/11 will be as follows: 
• basic salary;  
• pension provision;  
• annual bonus scheme; and  
• long-term incentives, comprising the Performance Share Plan. 
Basic salaries and pension provision are not linked to performance 
(except when basic salaries are reviewed), whilst payments under the 
annual bonus scheme and any long-term incentive scheme operated by 
the Company are wholly dependent upon performance against agreed 
targets. Only basic salary is pensionable. 
Variable performance-related remuneration for Mr M W Roberts and  
Mr S W Dryden for 2010/11 will account for approximately 57% of  
total target remuneration (excluding pensions and benefits). 
The Board is ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but 
delegates responsibility to the Committee. The Committee addressed the 
following main issues during the year: 
• the annual review of the Chairman’s and Executive Directors’ 
remuneration for 2009;  
• the executive bonus arrangements and targets for 2009;  
• long-term incentive award levels and targets for 2009 awards; 
• oversight of remuneration policy for senior management and 
employees; 
• policy changes for 2010/11; 
• the terms of recruitment of Mr M W Roberts and departure of  
Mr A D Thorne; and 
• the disclosures in this Report.  
When setting Executive Directors’ remuneration, the Committee looks at 
the pay and conditions in the rest of the workforce. Executive Directors’ 
salaries in 2009/10 remained the same as in 2008/09 which compares 
to an average increase of 1% for the rest of the workforce. Whilst there  
is no overall policy on the relationship between Executive Directors’  
pay and that of the workforce the Company aims to pay fairly across  
the business. 
Over the last year, the Company has performed significantly better than 
had been anticipated in a challenging environment. Whilst market 
conditions have been better than feared, this improvement has resulted in 
the main from the successful implementation of the action programme on 
costs and cash and the successful recovery of strong input cost increases. 
The Company’s profits are much higher than expected at the start of the 
year, the share price has recovered strongly over the last 12 months and 
the Company’s total shareholder return over the last year is well ahead  
of the FTSE 250 Index. The Company has also performed well in 
comparison with its peers. However, the Board is not complacent and is 
strongly supporting the new Group Chief Executive in developing plans  
to deliver much improved profits and returns on capital going forwards. 
Against this background, the Committee has considered the annual  
bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for 2010/11 and discussed 
them with the Association of British Insurers, RiskMetrics and some major 
investors. The changes from 2009/10 are described in sections (F) and 
(G) below. 
(E) BASIC SALARIES  
The basic salaries of Executive Directors are reviewed annually on  
1 August, in conjunction with other aspects of remuneration. The basic   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 47 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
salary for each Executive Director is targeted at the rates of salary for 
similar roles within a selected group of UK businesses of similar size with 
substantial overseas operations. When determining the level of salary,  
the Committee takes into account market salary levels, the relative 
performance of the Group and of the individual Director, together with  
his experience in the particular job. The Committee also considers 
relevant information on the remuneration of other senior executives and 
the pay of employees elsewhere in the Group and, where appropriate, 
communicates its views on the levels of such remuneration to the Group 
Chief Executive. During its deliberations, the Committee has regard to 
salary levels in other countries where this is relevant for any non-UK 
based senior executive. The table of emoluments of the Directors is set out 
on page 51. The current basic salaries of Mr Roberts and Mr Dryden are 
£535,000 and £330,000 respectively. These were fixed on appointment 
on 4 May 2010 and 1 April 2008 respectively. Mr Roberts’ basic salary 
will not be increased in 2010. Mr Dryden’s basic salary has recently 
been reviewed and will be increased by 2% to £336,600 from 1 August 
2010. Other senior executives’ basic salaries will be increased by an 
average of 2% from 1 August 2010. 
(F) ANNUAL BONUS  
The Executive Directors participate in an annual bonus scheme which has 
been approved by the Committee. Following discussions with investors  
in 2009, for the financial year 2009/10 the maximum bonus payable 
was reduced from 100% to 75% of basic salary for Mr Thorne and  
Mr Dryden to take account of the expected reduction in profits in 
2009/10. In addition, there was a much more demanding payment 
schedule than had been in place in previous years. 
Under the scheme, the first 25% of salary worth of bonus is payable in 
cash, with the excess split equally between cash and deferred shares.  
The deferred shares vest three years after they are awarded and are  
held pursuant to the Deferred Share Bonus Plan. At that point, the Director 
receives the shares and a payment equal to the value of dividends 
payable on the vested shares during the deferral period. If the Director 
ceases employment with the Group during the deferral period, he will  
lose his right to the shares unless he is a defined ‘good leaver’ or the 
Committee considers that vesting is appropriate in the circumstances.  
The shares will vest in the event of a change of control or voluntary 
winding-up. 
The annual bonus payable to Mr Thorne and Mr Dryden for the financial 
year 2009/10 was 50% based on profit before tax with the other 50% 
based on return on capital employed. The outcome of the results for the 
financial year 2009/10 means that Mr Thorne earned a bonus of 75%  
of salary (£413,400) and Mr Dryden earned a bonus of 75% of salary 
(£247,500). Full bonus was achieved for the profit before tax and return 
on capital employed targets and this required the Executive Directors  
to exceed the top end of the range of financial targets, a financial 
performance significantly ahead of what was anticipated at the start  
of the year with profits at the level achieved in 2008/09. 
No deferral is being operated in respect of Mr Thorne’s 2009/10 bonus 
since he ceased employment on 18 May 2010. 
As indicated last year, the Committee has reviewed the maximum 
potential bonus for 2010/11 and, in light of the outcome for 2009/10 
and the expected improvement in financial performance for 2010/11,  
the maximum bonus potential for 2010/11 for the Executive Directors will 
return to the previous level of 100% of basic annual salary. The bonus 
will continue to be based on the Group profit before tax and return  
on capital employed. The Committee has set a range of demanding 
targets around the Company’s Plan for the year. Full bonus will require 
performance significantly ahead of Plan and the threshold above which 
payment starts to be made will be significantly above 2009/10 actual 
performance. At Plan, 50% of the maximum bonus will be payable. 
The annual bonus for the other most senior executives for 2009/10 was 
based on an appropriate combination of Group profit before tax and 
personal performance for centre-based senior executives. In the case  
of senior divisional executives, their bonus schemes were based on 
divisional profit and cash flow relating to the operating performance  
of the business and/or division in which they are employed.  
For 2010/11, the bonus maximum will be either 60% or 70% of basic 
salary and the bonus metrics will be based on a mix of Group profit 
before tax, return on capital employed and Business Segment operating 
profit, subject to the achievement of a cash flow hurdle, as relevant to 
each individual’s job. 
The annual bonus schemes are not contractual and bonuses under  
the schemes are not eligible for inclusion in the calculation of the 
participating executives’ pension scheme benefits. 
(G) SHARE AWARDS 
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) which was 
approved by shareholders in 2008. The individual grant limit under this 
Plan is 150% of basic salary per annum. In exceptional circumstances this 
may be increased to 200% of basic salary. As reported last year, in light 
of the low level of the Company’s share price in mid-2009 the Committee 
reduced the 2009 award to Executive Directors to 100% of salary (70% 
of salary for the other most senior executives). Following the increase  
in the share price since then, the Committee considers it appropriate  
to return to 150% of salary awards for the Executive Directors. This is  
also the level promised to Mr Roberts when his recruitment was being 
negotiated. Similarly, award levels below Director level will also be 
increased to between 75% to 150% of salary for the other most senior 
executives for 2010. 
The vesting of 2008 awards is based one-third on total shareholder return 
(‘TSR’) relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Industrial Goods and 
Services Supersector, one-third on average adjusted earnings per share 
(‘EPS’) and one-third on average adjusted return on average capital 
employed (‘ROACE’). For those senior executives working in one of the 
four Business Segments, the measures were TSR, average adjusted 
operating profit for the relevant segment and average adjusted ROACE 
for the relevant segment. 
Under the PSP, the Committee has the power to vary the metrics used 
each year and their relative weightings. It also has the power to  
review the specific targets for each award to ensure that they remain 
appropriate, but the new targets must be at least as challenging in  
the circumstances as the original targets were when they were set. 
For 2009 awards, following a shareholder consultation, the vesting 
criteria were revised as follows: 
• Recognising that it was very difficult at the time to set three-year 
financial targets and that the lack of visibility made it impractical to 
establish an appropriate range of EPS targets, the vesting of each 
award was split 80% on the Company’s TSR relative to the constituents 
of the FTSE 250 Industrial Goods and Services Supersector and 20% 
based on ROACE; 
• For those senior executives working in one of the four Business 
Segments, the measures were 80% TSR and 20% average adjusted 
ROACE for the relevant segment; and 
• 25% of the TSR part vests if the Company is ranked median, rising  
so that 100% vests if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile.  
The threshold and upper targets for ROACE were 10.3% and 11.5%. 
The Committee has given consideration to the terms of the 2010 PSP 
awards, taking into account the Company’s current circumstances, 
priorities and more certain outlook for the future. The Committee 
considers that, with a new Group Chief Executive in place and markets   GOVERNANCE 
Remuneration Report continued 
48 www.dssmith.uk.com 
still well below 2007 levels, the most appropriate balancing of the three 
criteria is to have an equal weighting between TSR and the two financial 
metrics. Accordingly, following a shareholder consultation, for 2010 
awards it has been decided that it is appropriate that 50% will be based 
on TSR, 25% on EPS and 25% on ROACE. The targets will be as follows: 
Percentage vesting as a 
proportion of that 
element of the award 
Relative TSR
1
 
(50% of award) 
Average EPS
2
 
(25% of award) 
Average 
adjusted ROACE
3
 
(25% of award)
100% Upper quartile 17.6p 12.2%
Between 25%  
and 100% 
Between median  
and upper 
quartile 
Between 14.8p 
and 17.6p 
Between 11.1% 
and 12.2%
25% Median 14.8p 11.1%
1 The Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250 currently 
contains over 50 companies and is considered to provide a better basis for 
comparison than the FTSE 250 as a whole. The Committee considers there are 
too few publicly quoted competitors to DS Smith to form a more bespoke group. 
2 Average adjusted EPS as disclosed in the Annual Report except that the 
Committee may adjust this figure in exceptional circumstances. 
3 Average adjusted Group operating profit divided by the monthly average of 
capital employed in each year. The ROACE calculation will be based on the 
average ROACE for the forthcoming three financial years, commencing with the 
financial year starting immediately prior to the award. 
For those senior executives working in one of the four Business Segments, 
the Committee has decided to apply the same targets as apply to other 
executives, to encourage a greater focus on Group performance. 
Therefore, 2010 awards will not be based on Business Segment 
performance at all. 
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting  
regardless of the Company’s performance in respect of the other 
elements. The Committee considers that in the circumstances, these targets 
are demanding and no less challenging than the targets set last year. 
As previously disclosed, to facilitate his recruitment in 2008, Mr Dryden 
was granted a conditional share award over 143,404 shares as 
compensation for lost entitlements to deferred share bonus awards 
relating to his previous employer. This award was made under the 
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan which was formed specifically 
for this purpose and was granted under Listing Rule 9.4.2R(2). Full details 
of this Plan, including details of the second vesting, are set out in section 
(S) below. 
Senior executives are expected to retain in shares half of the after-tax 
gains on the vesting of long-term incentive plan awards (including share 
options) until they have built up a shareholding equal to 100% of basic 
salary in the case of Executive Directors and 50% of basic salary in the 
case of other senior executives. 
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and 
awards made under the PSP (last award 2009), Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(last award 2007), Deferred Share Bonus Plan (last award 2008) and 
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan (last award 2008) and details  
of options granted to date under the Executive Share Option Scheme  
(last grant 2007) are shown on pages 98 to 101. 
(H) BENEFITS IN KIND  
Benefits in kind include provision of a company car, free fuel, permanent 
health insurance, life cover and private medical cover. Mr Thorne also 
had a driver.  
(I) PENSIONS  
During his employment Mr Thorne participated in a funded contributory 
defined benefit pension scheme with death in service cover. He had a 
normal pension age of 60 and his pension was based on an accrual rate 
of one-thirtieth with reference to basic salary less a deduction equal to the 
basic State pension. This was subject to a maximum pension of two-thirds 
of final pensionable pay. 
Mr Thorne’s benefits from the Registered Group Pension Scheme were 
subject to a scheme-specific earnings cap (the ‘Cap’). Consequently, the 
Company gave a promise to provide the balance of Mr Thorne’s pension 
entitlement through a non-registered unfunded arrangement. A charge 
over certain assets of the Company has been made as security against 
future pension payments pursuant to this pension arrangement on behalf 
of Mr Thorne. 
The Company has agreed that any shortfall in pension accrual which 
would otherwise have been foregone as a result of the termination of  
Mr Thorne’s employment prior to his 60th birthday will be provided under 
his existing unfunded retirement benefit arrangements. As a consequence 
of the change in income tax rate and the potential impact on the cost of 
providing his unapproved benefits, the Committee decided that it was  
in the interests of the Company for Mr Thorne to take his pension from  
1 April 2010 prior to the change in income tax rates. 
The spouse’s pension on death after retirement is two-thirds of the 
member’s pension, before any reduction for early retirement or 
commutation of pension for cash. 
Pensions in payment from the Registered Group Pension Scheme are 
increased annually in line with the increase in the UK Retail Prices  
Index, subject to a maximum guaranteed increase of 5% each year for 
pensionable service to May 2005 and 2.5% each year for service after 
May 2005, with the possibility of further discretionary increases. There is 
no allowance in the transfer value calculation basis for such discretionary 
increases or other discretionary benefits. 
Mr Thorne contributed to the Registered Group Pension Scheme at the 
rate of 15% of the Cap. 
Mr Dryden participates in the Company’s Registered Defined Contribution 
Scheme with death in service cover equal to four times basic salary. 
Members of this scheme are required to contribute a minimum of 3% of 
their basic salary to qualify for matching Company contributions, with 
higher levels of Company contributions payable (up to a maximum of  
6%) if the members pay a higher contribution. Mr Dryden has elected  
to pay contributions at a level that qualifies for the maximum Company 
contribution. Mr Dryden also receives a cash supplement of £65,000  
per annum. This payment is not pensionable and is not considered to be 
salary for the purpose of calculating any bonus payment. 
Mr Roberts receives a pension allowance of 30% of salary per annum 
plus death in service cover equal to four times basic salary. 
(J) APPOINTMENT OF MR ROBERTS  
On 4 May 2010, Mr Roberts joined the Company and was appointed 
Group Chief Executive. Mr Roberts’ ongoing remuneration arrangements 
are as follows: 
• basic salary of £535,000; 
• provision of company car or car allowance, private medical insurance 
and permanent health insurance; 
• pension allowance of 30% of salary; 
• annual bonus potential of 100% of salary; and 
• annual awards under the PSP of 150% of salary. 
In order to facilitate the recruitment of Mr Roberts in unusual 
circumstances and to ensure that his interests are directly and immediately 
aligned with those of the Company’s shareholders, the Company has 
agreed with him that he will be awarded a cash bonus and granted   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 49 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
several conditional share awards as detailed below principally as 
compensation for lost entitlements to bonus, deferred share awards  
and long-term share incentive awards relating to his previous employer, 
McBride plc. The conditional share awards will be granted under Listing 
Rules 9.4.2R(2) and are expected to be made as soon as practicable  
following the announcement of the Group’s results for 2009/10. 
The awards to be made to him are as follows: 
• Substitute Cash Bonus Award and Substitute Share Bonus Award as 
compensation for loss of his cash and share bonus entitlement with his 
previous employer for the year 2009/10 as a result of his recruitment 
by the Company. He will receive a cash sum of £187,500 payable as 
soon as practicable after 1 September 2010 provided he remains in 
employment and has not been given or served notice of termination 
and will receive a conditional award of shares worth £112,500 that 
vest on 1 September 2013 as detailed below. The sums of £187,500 
and the £112,500 have been calculated to reflect the proportion of the 
period of 12 calendar months beginning on 1 July 2009 during which 
Mr Roberts was actively employed by McBride plc and is based on an 
assessment of the likely bonus which would have become payable to 
him had he remained employed by McBride plc; 
• Replacement Deferred Shares Award; 
• Replacement 2007 LTIP; 
• Replacement 2008 LTIP; and 
• Recruitment Award. 
The Replacement Deferred Shares Award and the Substitute Share Bonus 
Award (see above) are subject to substantially the same terms as the 
Company’s Deferred Share Bonus Plan, as described on page 47,  
except that they will vest on 1 September 2012 and 1 September 2013 
respectively, reflecting the time of vesting of the entitlements which they 
replace. The number of shares under the Replacement Deferred Shares 
Award and Substitute Share Bonus Award will be calculated by dividing 
£150,000 and £112,500 respectively by the middle market quotation  
of the Company’s shares on the dealing day before the day of grant.  
The sum of £150,000 reflects the value of the shares as at October 2009 
which Mr Roberts forfeited. The awards will lapse if Mr Roberts serves,  
or is served with, notice of termination of his employment or otherwise  
on actual cessation of his employment, other than in the event of  
certain good leaver circumstances or at the discretion of the Committee. 
The awards will vest early in the event of a takeover or similar  
corporate event. Mr Roberts will be entitled to a cash payment on  
vesting, representing a value equivalent to the dividends which would  
have been paid on his vested shares while they were subject to his 
awards. There are no performance conditions governing the vesting  
of the Replacement Deferred Shares Award and the Substitute Share 
Bonus Award because the awards they replicate had no performance 
conditions attaching to them. 
The Replacement 2007 LTIP award and the Replacement 2008 LTIP 
award are subject to substantially the same terms (other than as to 
performance conditions) as the McBride plc 2005 Long-Term Incentive 
Plan under which Mr Roberts’ original entitlements were awarded  
and they are due to vest on 10 October 2010 and 17 October 2011 
respectively, reflecting the time of vesting of the original entitlements 
which they replace. The Replacement 2008 LTIP award is subject to a 
performance condition measuring the TSR of McBride plc up to the date 
Mr Roberts joined the Company and thereafter the Company’s TSR 
against a comparator group of companies comprising the FTSE 250 
Index (excluding investment trusts) constituted as at the date of grant of 
the award over a three-year performance period commencing on 1 July 
2008. The award will vest in full if the TSR is ranked in the upper quartile 
of the comparator group and on a straight-line basis if the TSR is ranked 
between median and upper quartile. This performance condition reflects 
the primary features of the performance condition applying to the original 
award it replaces, to the extent those features can be measured in 
relation to the Company as well as McBride plc. Since the 2007 LTIP 
award was due to vest in the near future, the Company calculated the 
value of shares subject to the Replacement 2007 LTIP award based on  
the value of shares under award in October 2009 and the likelihood  
the existing performance conditions would be satisfied. For that reason 
there are no further performance conditions governing the vesting of the 
Replacement 2007 LTIP award. The value of the Replacement 2008 LTIP 
award has been calculated based on the value of shares subject to the 
2008 LTIP award as at October 2009. The number of shares under the 
Replacement 2007 LTIP award and the Replacement 2008 LTIP award 
will be calculated by dividing £315,000 and £608,000 respectively by 
the middle market quotation of the Company’s shares on the dealing day 
before the day of grant. The awards will lapse if Mr Roberts serves, or  
is served with, notice of termination of his employment or otherwise on 
actual cessation of his employment, other than in the event of certain 
good leaver circumstances or at the discretion of the Committee.  
The awards will vest early in the event of a takeover or similar corporate 
event. If early vesting does occur in any of these circumstances then  
the number of vested shares shall be pro-rated and, in the case of  
the Replacement 2008 LTIP, subject to early measurement of the 
performance condition. 
The Recruitment Award is being made to Mr Roberts to facilitate his 
recruitment and is also in lieu of the 2009 LTIP award which he would 
have been granted at McBride plc had he remained in employment.  
Once granted, the award is subject to substantially the same terms as  
the awards made under the Company’s PSP in 2009, including the 
performance conditions which are described above, except that the 
award is due to vest on 19 October 2012, reflecting the time of vesting  
of the award he would have received. The number of shares under the 
Recruitment Award will be calculated by dividing £802,500 (the normal 
ongoing award level of 150% of his basic salary) by the middle market 
quotation of the Company’s shares on the dealing day before the day of 
grant. The Committee considered that this level of award was necessary  
to recruit Mr Roberts. The award will lapse if Mr Roberts ceases 
employment, other than in the event of certain good leaver circumstances 
or at the discretion of the Committee. The award will vest in the event of a 
takeover or similar corporate event. If vesting does occur in any of these 
circumstances then the number of vested shares shall be pro-rated and 
subject to the measurement of the performance condition. 
The number of shares subject to Mr Roberts’ awards described above 
may be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital or 
demerger, special dividend or other similar event. The awards cannot be 
assigned, charged or otherwise disposed of. Benefits under the awards 
are not pensionable. The awards will be satisfied with existing shares 
other than treasury shares. None of the awards can be amended to the 
advantage of Mr Roberts in relation to the basis for determining his 
entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares and/or cash to be provided 
under those awards without prior shareholder approval in general 
meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the 
awards, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or 
maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment. 
(K) SERVICE CONTRACTS AND COMPENSATION  
The Committee’s general policy is that the notice periods for Executive 
Directors appointed in future will not exceed one year, although on 
appointment it may be necessary in exceptional cases to offer a longer 
initial period which reduces to one year or less after a specific date.   GOVERNANCE 
Remuneration Report continued 
50 www.dssmith.uk.com 
The service contract for Mr Thorne was dated 28 February 2001 and was terminable by 12 months’ notice on either side. Notice was given by the 
Company on 30 October 2009 on the basis that Mr Thorne would continue as Group Chief Executive until the new Group Chief Executive started 
employment. Mr Thorne stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 4 May 2010 and his employment terminated on 18 May 2010. Mr Thorne will 
receive a maximum of £498,800 in connection with the termination of his employment in lieu of notice, determined by reference to the terms of his 
service contract, paid in instalments, and subject to a reduction for certain other earnings for the period prior to 30 October 2010. The Company has 
also procured that the car which was made available for Mr Thorne’s use was transferred to him following his termination at no cost. 
As noted in section (F) above, the outcome of the results for the financial year 2009/10 means that Mr Thorne earned a bonus of 75% of salary 
(£413,400), which will be paid to him in cash (less required deductions). No bonus is payable to him in relation to 2010/11. 
The Committee has exercised its discretion under the relevant share incentive schemes so that, subject to satisfaction of relevant performance conditions 
and time pro-rating where relevant, his share options and awards will vest or be capable of exercise. 
The service contracts for Mr Roberts and Mr Dryden are dated 4 May 2010 and 1 April 2008 respectively. The service contracts may be terminated  
by 12 months’ notice by the Company, and by the Executive Director. The Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by making a 
payment equal, in Mr Roberts’ case, to basic salary and pensions allowance for any unexpired period of notice and, in Mr Dryden’s case, to basic 
salary for any unexpired period of notice. The Company may make such payment in a lump sum or in monthly instalments from the termination date. 
These monthly payments will be reduced to take account of any alternative employment or consultancy income during the period over which such 
instalments are payable. 
(L) POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS  
Executive Directors are allowed to accept external appointments as a non-Executive Director of up to two other companies provided that these are not 
with competing companies and are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest. In normal circumstances, the Group Chief Executive may not accept more 
than one external appointment. Executive Directors are normally allowed to retain the fees paid from these appointments. 
Mr Thorne had no external appointments. Mr Roberts has no external appointments. Mr Dryden is a non-Executive Director of Fiberweb plc and 
received fees of £34,833 for the period from 1 June 2009 (the date he was appointed to the board of Fiberweb plc) to 30 April 2010. 
(M) FEES FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE CHAIRMAN 
The remuneration for non-Executive Directors consists of annual fees for their services as members of the Board and, where relevant, for their work on 
selected Committees. Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for a term of three years whereupon they are normally renewed but generally 
for no more than three terms in aggregate. Their respective dates of appointment are shown on pages 40 and 41. 
The Chairman’s remuneration consists of an annual fee for his service as Chairman of the Board and his letter of appointment is for a term of three 
years. His appointment may be terminated by three months’ notice by the Company and by the Chairman. 
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each non-Executive Director and are available for viewing at the registered office 
during normal business hours and prior to and at the AGM. 
The rates for the Chairman’s and non-Executive Directors’ fees from July 2010 are as follows: 
Chairman’s and non-Executive 
Directors’ fees 
Base fee 
(£) 
Senior Independent 
non-Executive Director fee
(£)
Chairman of Audit 
Committee fee
(£)
Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee fee 
(£) 
Total
(£)
P M Johnson 168,000 – – – 168,000
R G Beeston 45,000 – – – 45,000
C J Bunker 45,000 2,500 – – 47,500
G Davis 45,000 – – 7,500 52,500
P J-C Mellier 49,200 – – – 49,200
J C Nicholls 45,000 – 8,500 – 53,500
In line with the decision not to raise the salaries of the Executive Directors and other senior executives, the non-Executive Directors’ and the Chairman’s 
fees were not increased in 2009. However, fees for the Chairman, the non-Executive Directors, and chairmanship fees in respect of the Remuneration 
and Audit Committees, were recently reviewed by the Board as a whole. The review took into account market practice with reference to the  
comparator group. The Chairman’s fees will be increased by £3,500 and the non-Executive Directors’ fees will be increased by £1,000 with effect  
from 1 August 2010. 
Neither the non-Executive Directors nor the Chairman are eligible for pension scheme membership and they do not participate in any of the Group’s 
annual bonus or other incentive arrangements. 
The Company’s Articles of Association enable the Board to set the remuneration of Directors within the limits set by shareholders. The current aggregate 
limit is £750,000 and the aggregate amount paid in the financial year to the non-Executive Directors was £362,420. Executive Directors are 
remunerated in respect of their executive appointments, under the terms of their service contracts, and receive no additional fees for serving as 
Directors. 
Non-Executive Directors are expected to build up and then maintain a shareholding that is equivalent to 50% of their annual fee from the Company 
within two years of their date of appointment. The Directors’ interests in shares can be seen on page 54.   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 51 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
(N) DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS (AUDITABLE) 
Salary/fees 
£’000
Annual bonus 
£’000
Deferred 
bonus 
£’000
Benefits  
£’000 
Pensions 
supplement 
£’000 
2010 
total 
£’000
2009 
total
 £’000
Chairman   
P M Johnson 168 – – 23 – 191 189
Group Chief Executive   
A D Thorne 551 413 – 3 – 967 565
Group Finance Director   
S W Dryden 330 165 83 28 65 671 422
Non-Executives   
R G Beeston 54 – – – – 54 54
C J Bunker 54 ––– – 54 53
P J-C Mellier 49 ––– – 49 49
J C Nicholls* 19 – – – – 19 –
 1,2255788354 65 2,005 1,332
* Appointed 1 December 2009 
Past Directors 
Salary/fees 
£’000
Annual bonus 
£’000
Deferred 
bonus 
£’000
Benefits  
£’000 
Compensation  
for loss of 
office  
£’000 
2010 
total 
£’000
2009 
total 
£’000
G M B Adams 3 – – – – 3 44
R E C Marton 15 ––– – 15 44
Total 18––– – 18 88
Mr Dryden received a non-pensionable cash supplement during the year. The total emoluments of Mr Thorne for 2009/10 were £967,000  
(2008/09: £565,000). The total emoluments, excluding the deferred bonus, of Mr Dryden were £588,000 (2008/09: £422,000).  GOVERNANCE 
Remuneration Report continued 
52 www.dssmith.uk.com 
(O) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (AUDITABLE) 
Details of the Directors’ interests in the PSP, which is described in more detail on pages 47 and 48, are as follows: 
Executive Directors 
Interests under 
the PSP at 
30 April 2009
Awards 
granted/
commitments 
made during 
year
Awards 
lapsed/ 
crystallised 
in year
Date of 
award
Market price 
on date of 
award (p) 
Market price  
at date of 
vesting (p) 
Interests 
under the 
PSP at 
30 April 
2010
Vesting date if 
performance 
conditions met
A D Thorne 619,325 –––– – 619,325 17 Sept 11
 – 776,338 – 22 Jul 09 71.0 – 776,338 22 Jul 12
S W Dryden 370,786 –––– – 370,786 17 Sept 11
 – 464,788 – 22 Jul 09 71.0 – 464,788 22 Jul 12
The vesting of each award granted in 2008 is split into equal thirds, based on the Company’s TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 
Industrial Goods and Services Supersector, average adjusted EPS and average ROACE. 25% of the TSR part vests if the Company is ranked median, 
rising until 100% vests if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile. The threshold (at which 25% vests) and maximum targets are 16.5p and 19.0p 
for EPS and 11.5% and 12.5% for ROACE. 
The vesting of each award granted in 2009 is split 80% based on the Company’s TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Industrial Goods 
and Services Supersector, and 20% based on the average ROACE. 25% of the TSR part vests if the Company is ranked median, rising until 100%  
vests if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile. The threshold (at which 25% vests) and maximum targets are 10.3% and 11.5% for ROACE. 
Mr Thorne stepped down from the Board on 4 May 2010 and his employment terminated on 18 May 2010. The performance conditions attached to 
the award granted in 2008 were not met as at 18 May 2010. Accordingly, the award has lapsed. The performance conditions for the 2009 award 
were tested by reference to 18 May 2010. 100% of the TSR element will vest on 24 June 2010, subject to a time pro-rata reduction to reflect the 
unexpired portion of the performance period at cessation. Accordingly, 34.9% of the TSR element will vest and so 216,753 shares will be released to 
Mr Thorne on 24 June 2010. The performance conditions for the ROACE element were not met and accordingly that element of the award has lapsed. 
In accordance with the rules of the PSP £7,152.84 will be paid on the same date in respect of the time pro-rated dividends earned since the award 
was made. 
(P) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARE OPTIONS (AUDITABLE) 
Following shareholder approval of the PSP in September 2008, the Executive Share Option Scheme ceased to be operated, the last award having been 
made in 2007. Directors’ interests in share options over ordinary shares are as follows: 
Executive Director 
Options 
held at 
30 April 
2009
Options 
granted 
during year
Options 
exercised 
during year
Options 
lapsed 
during year
Options  
held at  
30 April 
2010  
Exercise price 
(p) 
Dates 
from which 
exercisable Expiry date
A D Thorne 243,979 – – – 243,979 135.23 26 Jul 05 25 Jul 12
 241,245––– 241,245 149.22 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
 207,500––– 207,500 159.00 2 Aug 08 1 Aug 15
 239,050––– 239,050 149.00 1 Aug 09 31 Jul 16
 155,600––– 155,600 240.00 31 Jul 10 30 Jul 17
All of the above options were granted for £nil consideration. The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 April 2010 was 135.2p and the range 
during the year was 58p to 143p. Aggregate gains made by Directors on exercise of share options in the year were £nil (2008/09: £nil). There is no 
retest facility for options granted since 2004. For these share options to become exercisable, the growth in the Company’s normalised EPS must match 
or exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index plus an average of 3% per annum over three years. During the transition to IFRS, the Committee 
ensured that a consistent basis was used to measure earnings per share performance. Options granted in 2002, 2003 and 2005 became exercisable 
when they passed their respective performance conditions in 2008 and options granted in 2006 became exercisable when they passed their 
performance conditions in 2009. Based on EPS performance to 30 April 2010, the options granted in 2007 will fail their performance conditions  
and therefore will lapse. 
For this purpose, the EPS growth is based on adjusted EPS as disclosed in the Annual Report, except that the Committee may adjust this figure in 
exceptional circumstances where this is appropriate. The verification of the calculation of EPS growth has been performed by Hewitt New Bridge Street, 
in their capacity as advisers to the Committee. 
The performance condition attached to Mr Thorne’s share options granted in 2002, 2003, 2005 and 2006 was met and accordingly these options  
will remain exercisable until 18 November 2010. Performance in relation to the options granted in 2007 will be tested following the publication of  
the 2009/10 results. It is expected that these performance conditions will not be met. Accordingly, the award will lapse immediately.   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 53 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
(Q) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (AUDITABLE) 
Following shareholder approval of the PSP in September 2008, the Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) ceased to be operated, the last award having been 
made in 2007. Details of the Directors’ interests in the LTIP are as follows: 
Executive Directors 
Interests 
under the 
Plan at 
30 April 
2009
Awards 
granted/
commitments 
made during 
year
Awards 
lapsed/ 
crystallised 
in year
Date of 
award
Market price 
on date of 
award (p) 
Market price 
at date of  
vesting (p) 
Interests 
under the 
Plan at 
30 April 
2010
Vesting date if 
performance 
conditions met
A D Thorne 237,500 – 237,500 27 Jul 06 150.0 – – 27 Jul 09
 156,768 – – 26 Jul 07 238.2 – 156,768 26 Jul 10
The awards made under the LTIP will vest based on the Company’s TSR (being the increase in the share price and the value of reinvested dividends) 
compared to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). If the Company’s TSR is ranked at the upper quartile of the 
group or higher, the full award will vest reducing on a straight-line basis to 30% of the award vesting for median performance. None of the award 
vests for below median performance. TSR performance is measured over a single period of three financial years starting with the year in which the 
award is made. 
In addition to the TSR condition, no awards will vest, irrespective of TSR performance, unless the Company’s EPS growth matches or exceeds the growth 
in the Retail Prices Index over the three-year period. For this purpose, following the introduction of IFRS, the EPS growth will be based on adjusted EPS  
as disclosed in the Annual Report, except that the Committee may adjust this figure in exceptional circumstances where this is appropriate. 
The calculation of TSR performance is performed by Hewitt New Bridge Street, in their capacity as advisers to the Committee. 
The awards made under the LTIP in 2006 lapsed during the year as the performance conditions were not met. Based on performance to 30 April 2010, 
the awards made under the LTIP in 2007 also lapsed as the performance conditions were not met. 
(R) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE DEFERRED SHARE BONUS PLAN (AUDITABLE) 
Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan are as follows: 
Executive Directors 
Interests 
under the 
Plan at 
30 April 
2009
Awards 
granted/
commitments 
made during 
year
Awards 
lapsed/ 
crystallised 
in year
Date of 
award
Market price 
on date of 
award (p) 
Market price 
at date of 
vesting (p) 
Interests 
under the 
Plan at 
30 April 
2010 Vesting date
A D Thorne 69,473 – – 26 Jul 07 238.7 – 69,473 26 Jul 10
 153,122 – – 23 Jul 08 115.3 – 153,122 23 Jul 11
Mr Thorne stepped down from the Board on 4 May 2010 and his employment terminated on 18 May 2010. His interests under the Plan as disclosed 
above will vest in full on 24 June 2010. In accordance with the rules of the Plan £32,908.66 will be paid on the same date in respect of the dividends 
earned since the awards were made. 
(S) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER THE REPLACEMENT DEFERRED SHARE BONUS PLAN (AUDITABLE) 
Executive Directors 
Interests 
under 
the Plan 
at 30 April 
2009
Awards 
granted/
commitments 
made during 
year
Awards 
lapsed/ 
crystallised 
in year
Date of 
award
Market price 
on date of 
award (p) 
Market price  
at date of 
vesting (p) 
Interests 
under the 
Plan at 
30 April 
2010
Vesting date if 
performance 
conditions met
S W Dryden 38,504 – 38,504 1 Apr 08 156.5 125.4 – 1 Mar 10
 74,674 – – 1 Apr 08 156.5 – 74,674 1 Mar 11
In recognition of the loss of his entitlement to deferred share bonus awards relating to his previous employment, Mr Dryden was made an award of 
143,404 shares (which is neither pensionable nor transferable) on 1 April 2008, the date on which he joined DS Smith Plc. The Committee made this 
award, in exceptional circumstances, to facilitate the recruitment of Mr Dryden as the new Group Finance Director. The number of shares awarded was 
determined by reference to the value of the entitlement to shares he forfeited under his previous arrangements. 
The first tranche vested on 1 March 2009, as reported in the 2009 accounts, and the second tranche vested on 1 March 2010 and 38,504 shares 
were transferred to Mr Dryden on 9 March 2010 (allowing time for the market to assimilate the Interim Management Statement). At the same time,  
Mr Dryden sold 15,820 of the acquired shares at a price of 125.4p per share in order to pay the income tax, NIC and dealing expenses due 
following the vesting. In normal circumstances, the remaining shares will vest on 1 March 2011, as shown in the table above, subject only to Mr 
Dryden’s continued employment with the Company. This date corresponds to the date when Mr Dryden’s arrangements in his previous employment 
would have vested.  GOVERNANCE 
Remuneration Report continued 
54 www.dssmith.uk.com 
(T) DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES 
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company were as shown below: 
30 April 2009* 30 April 2010 
Name of Director Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial
P M Johnson 255,000 – 255,000 –
A D Thorne 331,862 – 331,862 –
S W Dryden 32,797 – 55,481 –
R G Beeston 50,000 – 50,000 –
C J Bunker 10,000 – 20,000 –
P J-C Mellier 10,000 – 20,000 –
J C Nicholls 19,130 – 19,130 –
* Or at date of appointment 
There have been no changes to the shareholdings set out above between the financial year end and the date of the Report. It is currently intended that 
any ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements under the Performance Share Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the Substitute Bonus Award, the 
Replacement Deferred Share Award, the Replacement 2007 LTIP, the Replacement 2008 LTIP, the Recruitment Award and the Replacement Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan will be provided by the David S Smith Group General Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’), which buys shares on the market to do so. 
The Trust will also be used to fulfil certain entitlements under the Executive Share Option Scheme (along with new issue shares for other entitlements). 
(U) DIRECTORS’ PENSION ENTITLEMENTS (AUDITABLE) 
Mr Thorne was a member of the defined benefit scheme provided by the Group during the year, with death in service cover. His pension entitlement 
and corresponding transfer values increased as follows: 
Name of Director 
Gross increase in 
accrued pension  
(1) 
£ 
Increase in 
accrued pension 
net of inflation
(2)
£
Total 
accrued pension 
at 31 March 2010 
(3)
£
Transfer value of 
net increase in 
accrual over period 
(net of Director’s 
contribution) (4)
£
Transfer value of 
accrued pension  
at 31 March 2010 
(5) 
£ 
Transfer value of 
accrued pension 
at 30 April 2009
(6)
£
Total change in 
value during period 
(net of Director’s 
contribution) (7)
£
A D Thorne 28,860 28,860 173,908 707,639 4,468,967 3,148,759 1,304,038
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the period. Transfer values have 
been calculated in accordance with the Group Pension Scheme Trustee’s method and assumptions for the calculation of Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Values. The value of net increase (4) represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that 
service terminated at 31 March 2010. It is based on the accrued pension increase (2) after deducting the Director’s contribution. The change in transfer  
value (7) includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as stock market 
movements. It is calculated after deducting the Director’s contribution. 
Mr Thorne commenced receipt of these benefits on 31 March 2010 and so figures have been provided at that date. Mr Thorne elected to receive a 
lump sum of £1,246,609 in lieu of part of his pension entitlement. The accrued pension (3) is prior to commutation and shows the gross pension and  
the figures in columns (2) and (4) are based on this. The transfer value (5) in the table allows for the lump sum payment. If allowance is excluded,  
in accordance with Companies Act Regulations, the value reduces to £3,222,358 and the change in value becomes £57,429.   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 55 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
(V) TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE 
The following graph illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return performance since 1 May 2005, in accordance with paragraph 4 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, relative to the FTSE 250 Index. 
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and, accordingly, this index is considered to be the most appropriate comparator group for  
this purpose.  
 
This graph looks at the value, by 30 April 2010, of £100 invested in Smith (DS) over the last five financial years compared with that of £100 invested 
in the FTSE Mid 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.  
 
On behalf of the Board 
BOB BEESTON 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
23 June 2010 
 
Total shareholder return 
  GOVERNANCE 
Directors’ Report 
56 www.dssmith.uk.com 
The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial 
statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2010. The Directors’ 
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, as required by 
Section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, is on page 58. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES  
The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during 
2009/10, was engaged in the supply of corrugated and plastic 
packaging and of recycled paper and the wholesaling of office products. 
A full review of the activities during the financial year ended 30 April 
2010 is set out on pages 1 to 39. The principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group are discussed on pages 32 and 33. A discussion of 
future developments and key performance indicators that management 
use is set out in the Business Review on page 19. The principal subsidiary 
undertakings are listed in note 33 on page 104. 
BUSINESS REVIEW 
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be 
found in the Business Review on pages 1 to 39, which are incorporated in 
this report by reference. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance 
Statement can be found in the Corporate Governance section on pages 
42 to 45 (and is incorporated into this report by reference) with the 
exception of the information referred to in the Financial Services Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.6, which is located in this 
Directors’ Report. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the 
members of the Company and no-one else. The Annual Report contains 
certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, 
performance and financial condition of the Group. By their nature,  
these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances 
can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.  
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a  
profit forecast. 
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 
The financial results are shown on pages 60 to 111. 
DIVIDENDS 
An interim dividend of 1.5 pence net per ordinary share was paid  
on 2 March 2010 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of  
3.1 pence net per ordinary share, making a total dividend to be paid  
for the year of 4.6 pence (2008/09: 4.4 pence) net per ordinary share. 
Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting  
to be held on 7 September 2010, the final dividend will be paid on  
14 September 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 13 August 2010. The dividends per ordinary share stated 
above are those actually paid or to be paid. 
SHARE CAPITAL 
Details of the issued share capital and the rights and restrictions attached 
to the shares, together with details of movements in the Company’s issued 
share capital during the year are shown in note 24. No shares pursuant 
to the Company’s executive share option scheme were issued between  
30 April 2010 and 23 June 2010 inclusive. The Company has not 
utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares granted to it at 
the 2009 Annual General Meeting but will be seeking to renew such 
authority at this year’s Meeting. 
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 
At 23 June 2010, the Company has been informed of the following 
notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital in accordance with 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: 
 
 Ordinary shares held %
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 70,235,754 17.85%
Standard Life Investments Ltd 55,662,041 14.15%
Sparinvest Holdings A/S 19,992,238 5.08%
AXA S.A. 16,561,204 4.21%
Legal & General Group plc 13,536,366 3.44%
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 
2009/10 
Wirth 
On 17 February 2010, the Group obtained control of Winfried Wirth 
GmbH, a corrugated packaging business in Germany. As a result,  
the Group’s equity interest in Wirth increased from 25% to 55%.  
Demes Logistics 
On 6 January 2010, the assets of Demes Logistics, a plastic packaging 
business in Germany, were sold. 
Vale Paper Limited 
Deferred consideration of £0.2 million was paid in 2010 to Vale Paper 
Limited in full settlement of the further consideration due. 
2008/09 
Vale Paper Limited 
On 2 September 2008, the Group acquired the assets of Vale Paper 
Limited, a waste paper collection business in the UK, for a consideration 
of £1.2 million. Further deferred consideration of £0.5 million was due 
18 months after the acquisition subject to certain performance measures 
being achieved. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
The Group recognises the importance of continuing to invest in  
research and development. It is Group policy to develop new product 
specifications commensurate with environmental needs and packaging 
solutions required by customers. Research is also conducted into ways  
to improve product quality and to find more cost-efficient methods of 
production and distribution. Research and development is conducted 
within divisional operations and expenditure is not significant. 
DIRECTORS 
The biographies of the present Directors are on pages 40 and 41. All the 
Directors served throughout the year except as follows. Mr G M B Adams 
resigned as a non-Executive Director on 26 May 2009 when he became 
Chief Executive of Spicers, the Group’s Office Products Wholesaling 
division. Mr R E C Marton retired from the Board on 31 August 2009.  
Mr J C Nicholls joined the Board as a non-Executive Director with effect 
from 1 December 2009. Mr A D Thorne retired from the Board on 4 May 
2010 and Mr M W Roberts joined the Board as Group Chief Executive 
on the same date. Mr G Davis joined the Board as a non-Executive 
Director on 1 June 2010. As mentioned in the Chairman’s Statement on 
page 15, Mr Beeston will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2010. 
Other than as previously disclosed in this Report and in respect of existing 
service agreements, no Director, either during or at the end of the 
financial year, has been materially interested in any significant contract  
or arrangement in relation to the Group’s business. 
In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008,  
the Directors disclose that the rules regarding the appointment and    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 57 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
replacement of Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of 
Association (‘Articles’), which may only be amended with shareholder 
approval in accordance with relevant legislation. The powers of the 
Directors are contained in the Company’s Memorandum of Association 
and Articles. The Articles give the Directors powers, subject to relevant 
legislation, to authorise the issue and buy-back of the Company’s shares 
by the Company, subject to authority being given to the Directors by 
shareholders in general meeting. The Company annually seeks the 
authority of shareholders to authorise the exercise by Directors of  
these powers. 
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
The Articles require that all Directors who have either been appointed  
by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, or for whom the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting is the third Annual General Meeting 
since they were elected or last re-elected by the Company in general 
meeting, retire from office but they are eligible to submit themselves for  
re-election by the shareholders. Mr Nicholls, Mr Davis and Mr Roberts, 
have been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for election. The Directors retiring  
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting on 7 September 2010 are  
Mr Bunker and Mr Mellier and being eligible, offer themselves for re-
election. As required by the Combined Code any non-Executive Director 
who has been in post for nine years or more, or who is non-independent 
for any reason, is subject to annual re-election. Mr Beeston has served  
for more than nine years and is submitting himself for re-election.  
As mentioned in the Chairman’s Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston  
will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2010. Formal performance 
evaluation has confirmed that the individual performance of the Directors 
offering themselves for election and re-election has been effective and 
they have demonstrated commitment to the role. 
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES 
The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary 
shares of 10 pence each of the Company, including options granted but 
not yet exercised under the Performance Share Plan, Long-Term Incentive 
Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the 
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan were as shown in the tables on 
pages 52 to 54. 
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES 
The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity 
arrangements for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope which 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
The Group is committed to frequent and effective employee 
communications to promote the understanding and involvement of all  
its employees in the Group’s business objectives and performance. 
Communications and personnel policies have been developed to reflect 
the philosophy of operating management. Information is regularly 
communicated by briefings and newsletters. The Group operates a 
European Works Council, with representatives drawn from across the 
entire workforce in the EU countries in which the Group operates. 
Meetings are held to provide an exchange of transnational information 
and consultation with employees. At each meeting, presentations are 
made on the Group’s business strategy, financial results, health and  
safety and environmental performance. The Group also has a number  
of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote information 
exchange, consultation and representation between the Group and  
its workforce. Business decisions concerning capital investment, 
employment and training take into account the Group’s public and  
local responsibilities. The Group supports the involvement of its  
operations in local community activities. 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 
The Group is firmly committed to both the principle and realisation of 
equal opportunities in employment and its policies are designed to 
provide such equality irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, 
sexual orientation, age or disability. Every possible step is taken to ensure 
that individuals are treated equally and fairly. The Group applies the 
same criteria to people with disabilities as it does to other employees. 
Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining is offered to  
any employee who develops a disability during their employment. 
PENSION FUND 
The Group had, in the year under review, four UK pension arrangements: 
one defined benefit scheme (which is closed to new employees), one 
defined contribution scheme, which was introduced for new employees 
joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005, one Group personal pension 
plan and a statutory Stakeholder arrangement.  
The defined benefit scheme is a trust-based arrangement and the 
investments of the assets are managed on a discretionary basis by  
a number of Investment Managers, either in segregated or pooled 
arrangements. The defined contribution scheme is a trust-based 
arrangement offering members a range of investments with AXA Sun Life 
plc and other external investment fund managers as selected by the 
Scheme’s trustees. The Group personal pension plan is a contract-based 
arrangement offering members a range of investments with Norwich 
Union Life and other external investment fund managers, and the 
Stakeholder arrangement is provided through Investment Solutions Limited. 
All such assets are held independently from the Group. The trustees of  
the defined benefit scheme and the defined contribution scheme send  
an Annual Report to all members of the respective schemes. The Trustee 
Company of the defined benefit scheme has an Investment Sub-
Committee, established in line with the recommended guidelines of the 
Myners Report. Peter Murray of Allenbridge Investment Consultants is 
appointed as an independent adviser to the Investment Sub-Committee  
of the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote all 
aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees and members 
of the public. A Health and Safety Policy Statement has been approved 
by the Board. 
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS 
The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that  
take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.  
The Company has a number of borrowing and related derivative facilities 
provided by various lenders. These facilities agreements generally include 
change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of ownership 
of the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these 
facilities. These significant agreements are as set out in note 20.  
On 3 March 2005, the Company, St Regis Paper Company Limited  
and BPB United Kingdom Limited (now part of the Saint-Gobain Group) 
(‘Saint-Gobain’) entered into a supply agreement for the manufacture and 
supply of plasterboard liner paper to Saint-Gobain. Saint-Gobain may 
terminate the agreement if there is a change of control in the Company.  
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid,  
such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements. None is 
considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole. 
 
  GOVERNANCE 
Directors’ Report continued 
 
58 www.dssmith.uk.com 
PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS 
Although the Company does not follow any formal code or standard on 
payment practice, the Company agrees terms and conditions in the UK 
with each supplier, which include terms of payment. The Company pays 
each supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms and conditions of the 
order being satisfied by such supplier. As DS Smith Plc is a holding 
company, whose principal business is to hold shares in Group 
companies, it has no trade creditors. 
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS 
The Group contributed £72,000 (2008/09: £78,000) to charities in the 
UK. No payments were made to political parties. Donations were made 
by operating divisions to support their local communities. The Group also 
supported a number of other charities across a range of causes. 
REGISTERED OFFICE 
From the end of August 2009 the registered office of the Company 
changed from 4-16 Artillery Row, London SW1P 1RZ to Beech House, 
Whitebrook Park, 68 Lower Cookham Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire  
SL6 8XY. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 
7 September 2010, together with explanations of the Resolutions to be 
proposed, appears at the back of this Annual Report. 
AUDITORS 
Each Director confirms that: 
(a) so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
(b) he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order 
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and to 
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the 
Annual General Meeting. 
By Order of the Board 
CAROLYN CATTERMOLE 
Company Secretary 
23 June 2010 
 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT  
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or 
loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;  
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed; and  
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.  
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors: 
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner  
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;  
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand  
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions  
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and 
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a  
going concern. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of  
the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions. 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT  
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
• the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors’ 
Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
By Order of the Board 
MILES ROBERTS 
Group Chief Executive 
23 June 2010 
STEVE DRYDEN 
Group Finance Director 
23 June 2010   
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of DS Smith Plc 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 59 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
We have audited the financial statements of DS Smith Plc for the year 
ended 30 April 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,  
the parent Company Balance Sheet, the related notes 1 to 35 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 11 to the 
parent Company Balance Sheet. The financial reporting framework  
that has been applied in the preparation of the Consolidated financial 
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body,  
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement,  
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2010  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE 
COMPANIES ACT 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year  
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.  
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT  
BY EXCEPTION 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement contained within Corporate Governance in 
relation to going concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.  
COLIN HUDSON FCA 
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
London, United Kingdom 
23 June 2010 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Consolidated Income Statement 
For the year ended 30 April 2010 
 
60 www.dssmith.uk.com 
Note
Before 
exceptional 
items 
2010
£m
Exceptional 
items 
(note 4)
2010
£m
After 
exceptional 
items  
2010 
£m 
Before 
exceptional 
items  
2009 
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 4)
2009
£m
After 
exceptional 
items 
2009
£m
Revenue 2 2,070.6 – 2,070.6 2,106.6 –2,106.6
Cost of sales (1,558.4) – (1,558.4) (1,604.4) –(1,604.4)
Gross profit 512.2 – 512.2 502.2 – 502.2
Operating expenses 3,4 (418.2) (13.3) (431.5) (408.2) (50.6) (458.8)
Operating profit 2,3 94.0 (13.3) 80.7 94.0 (50.6) 43.4
Finance income 5 1.5 – 1.5 2.5 – 2.5
Finance costs 5 (15.9) – (15.9) (26.1) – (26.1)
Employment benefit net finance (expense)/income 25 (11.5) – (11.5) 1.5 – 1.5
Net financing costs (25.9) – (25.9) (22.1) – (22.1)
Profit after financing costs 68.1 (13.3) 54.8 71.9 (50.6) 21.3
Share of profit/(loss) of associates 12 0.2 – 0.2 0.6 (5.1) (4.5)
Profit before income tax 68.3 (13.3) 55.0 72.5 (55.7) 16.8
Income tax (expense)/credit 7 (17.8) 0.9 (16.9) (22.6) (5.4) (28.0)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 50.5 (12.4) 38.1 49.9 (61.1) (11.2)
 
Profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable to:   
Owners of the parent 50.3 (12.4) 37.9 49.3 (61.1) (11.8)
Non-controlling interests 0.2 – 0.2 0.6 – 0.6
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 8 12.9p (3.2)p 9.7p 12.6p (15.6)p (3.0)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 8 12.6p (3.1)p 9.5p 12.6p (15.6)p (3.0)p
 
Dividend per share   
– interim, paid (pence) 9 1.5p  2.6p
– final, proposed (pence) 9 3.1p  1.8p
 
    
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 30 April 2010 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 61 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 25 (10.3) (123.4)
Movements on deferred tax relating to actuarial losses 7 3.3 34.9
Currency translation gains, including tax of £(2.4)m (2009: tax of £14.5m)    5.5 0.7
Movements in cash flow hedges including tax of £3.9m (2009: tax of £3.9m)  (10.1) (10.3)
  
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax  (11.6) (98.1)
 
Profit/(loss) for the year  38.1 (11.2)
 
Total comprehensive income for the year  26.5 (109.3)
 
Total comprehensive income attributable to:  
Owners of the parent  26.4 (110.3)
Non-controlling interests  0.1 1.0
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
As at 30 April 2010 
 
62 www.dssmith.uk.com 
financial statements 
 
Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 10 221.2 222.0
Property, plant and equipment 11 590.8 637.1
Investments in associates  12 – 0.3
Other investments 13 0.8 0.8
Deferred tax assets 22 81.4 73.2
Other receivables 15 0.8 0.9
Derivative financial instruments 21 11.9 13.7
Total non-current assets  906.9 948.0
Current assets  
Inventories 14 174.8 170.2
Other investments 13 0.2 0.5
Income tax receivable  2.3 1.3
Trade and other receivables  15 380.5 356.1
Cash and cash equivalents 19 55.1 62.9
Derivative financial instruments  21 6.3 11.7
Assets classified as held for sale 17 8.1 –
Total current assets  627.3 602.7
Total assets  1,534.2 1,550.7
Liabilities  
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 (256.4) (331.5)
Post-retirement benefits 25 (203.1) (191.3)
Other payables 16 (3.9) (3.8)
Provisions 23 (7.9) (14.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (60.5) (70.5)
Derivative financial instruments  21 (26.0) (23.7)
Total non-current liabilities  (557.8) (634.8)
Current liabilities  
Bank overdrafts 19 (22.3) (8.8)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 (5.7) (5.8)
Trade and other payables 16 (430.4) (412.1)
Income tax liabilities   (17.1) (10.0)
Provisions 23 (12.9) (22.1)
Derivative financial instruments  21 (8.7) (0.7)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 17 (6.1) –
Total current liabilities  (503.2) (459.5)
Total liabilities  (1,061.0) (1,094.3)
Net assets  473.2 456.4
Equity  
Issued capital  39.3 39.3
Share premium  263.1 263.1
Reserves  172.4 155.6
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 474.8 458.0
Non-controlling interests  (1.6) (1.6)
Total equity   473.2 456.4
Approved by the Board on 23 June 2010 and signed on its behalf by 
M W Roberts, Director  S W Dryden, Director 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 30 April 2010 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 63 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 Note 
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Own
shares
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
reserves 
attributable 
to equity 
shareholders 
£m 
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 May 2008  39.3 263.1 13.0 27.1 (4.2) 263.4 601.7 0.2 601.9
Loss for the period  – – – – – (11.8) (11.8) 0.6 (11.2)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes 25 – – – – – (123.4) (123.4) – (123.4)
Movement on deferred tax relating  
to actuarial losses 7 – – – – – 34.9 34.9 – 34.9
Currency translation differences 
(including tax)  – – – 0.3 – – 0.3 0.4 0.7
Changes in the fair value of cash flow 
hedges (including tax) 21 – – (5.3) – – – (5.3) – (5.3)
Amounts recognised in profit or loss 
during the year (including tax) 21 – – (4.5) – – – (4.5) – (4.5)
Amounts recognised in property,  
plant and equipment during the year 21 – – (0.5) – – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Own shares acquired  – – – – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Share-based payment expense  
(including tax) 26 – – – – 0.2 0.1 0.3 – 0.3
Dividends paid to Group 
shareholders 9 –––––(34.4) (34.4)–(34.4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests  –––––– – (1.9)(1.9)
Transactions with non-controlling 
interests (Toscana Ondulati SpA) 24 – – – – – 0.9 0.9 (0.9) –
Balance at 30 April 2009  39.3 263.1 2.7 27.4 (4.2) 129.7 458.0 (1.6) 456.4
 
Profit for the period  – – – – – 37.9 37.9 0.2 38.1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes 25 – – – – – (10.3) (10.3) – (10.3)
Movement on deferred tax relating  
to actuarial losses 7 – – – – – 3.3 3.3 – 3.3
Currency translation differences 
(including tax)  – – – 5.6 – – 5.6 (0.1) 5.5
Changes in the fair value of cash flow 
hedges (including tax) 21 – – (2.7) – – – (2.7) – (2.7)
Amounts recognised in profit or loss 
during the year (including tax) 21 – – (7.4) – – – (7.4) – (7.4)
Acquisitions 31 –––––– – 0.30.3
Share-based payment expense  
(including tax) 26 – – – – – 2.9 2.9 – 2.9
Dividends paid to Group 
shareholders 9 – – – – – (12.9) (12.9) – (12.9)
Transactions with non-controlling 
interests (Toscana Ondulati SpA) 24 – – – – – 0.4 0.4 (0.4) –
Balance at 30 April 2010  39.3 263.1 (7.4) 33.0 (4.2) 151.0 474.8 (1.6) 473.2
The above should be read in conjunction with note 24. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 30 April 2010 
 
64 www.dssmith.uk.com 
  
  
 Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Operating activities  
Cash generated from operations 27 135.5 166.4
Interest received  0.8 1.1
Interest paid  (17.0) (24.1)
Tax paid  (21.3) (21.0)
Cash flows from operating activities  98.0 122.4
Investing activities  
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses and joint ventures, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 31 (1.0) (1.2)
Disposal of subsidiary business, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 8.1 –
Capital expenditure payments  (52.6) (87.4)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  4.8 7.7
(Purchases)/proceeds from the sale of investments in associates and other investments,  
net of additions of £0.8m (2009: £0.4m) 31 0.1 (0.1)
Cash flows used in investing activities  (40.6) (81.0)
Financing activities  
Purchase of own shares  – (0.2)
Repayment of borrowings  (65.9) (12.8)
Repayment of finance lease obligations  (0.4) (1.0)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 (12.9) (34.4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  – (1.9)
Cash flows used in financing activities  (79.2) (50.3)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (21.8) (8.9)
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May   54.1 56.0
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents  0.5 7.0
Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April  19 32.8 54.1  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 65 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
(a) Basis of preparation 
In the current year the Group adopted amendments to IAS 1, ‘Presentation 
of Financial Statements’. The amendments require the presentation of  
an entity’s transactions with owners in a separate primary statement,  
the Statement of Changes in Equity. Previously the Group had the choice  
of whether to present transactions with owners in a primary statement  
or in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the 
amendments require the presentation of a Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. Previously the Group presented a Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense, which is now no longer required. The Balance 
Sheet has been renamed and is now the Statement of Financial Position. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved 
by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (‘adopted IFRSs’). The Company has 
elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 106 to 111. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling millions, 
rounded to one decimal place, unless otherwise indicated. They are 
prepared on the historical cost basis except that assets and liabilities  
of certain financial instruments, defined benefit pension plans and  
share-based payments are stated at their fair value. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on  
a going concern basis as set out on page 45 of the Corporate 
Governance section. 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
whether and how policies are applied and affect the reported amounts  
of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. Judgements made by 
management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant 
effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk  
of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in accounting  
policy (w). 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently  
to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.  
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all  
Group entities. 
(b) Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date 
that control ceases. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and 
losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
(ii) Associates 
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the 
total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted 
basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date 
that significant influence ceases.  
(iii) Joint ventures 
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s proportionate 
share of its joint ventures’ assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses with 
items of a similar nature on a line-by-line basis, from the date that joint 
control commences until the date that joint control ceases. 
(iv) Non-controlling interests 
The share of profit attributable to non-controlling interests is shown  
as a component of profit for the period in the income statement.  
Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in the 
statement of financial position net of the value of options over interests 
held by minorities in the Group’s subsidiaries. 
(c) Revenue 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, net of 
value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within 
the Group. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income 
statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the buyer.  
(d) Government grants 
(i) Emission quotas 
The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. 
Emission quotas received in a period are initially recognised at a nominal 
value of nil. As a result, no asset or liability is recognised on the statement 
of financial position at initial recognition. A provision is recognised if 
there is any anticipated shortfall in the level of quotas received or 
purchased when compared with actual emissions in any given period, 
measured at the market price of such quotas at the statement of financial 
position date. Excess emission quotas acquired as part of a business 
combination are recognised as an intangible asset at their fair value on 
the date of acquisition. 
(ii) Other 
Other government grants are recognised in the statement of financial 
position initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance 
that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the 
conditions attaching to them. Grants that compensate the Group for 
expenses incurred are offset against the expenses in the same periods  
in which the expenses are incurred.  
(e) Dividends 
Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company declared 
during the year are recognised directly in equity.  
(f) Foreign currency translation 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the statement of 
financial position date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange 
rates ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the income 
statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms 
of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the transactions. 
The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a functional 
currency other than sterling are translated at the closing exchange rate at 
the date of the statement of financial position. Income and expenses for 
each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless 
this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of 
the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and 
expenses are translated at the date of the transactions). On consolidation, 
exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment  
in foreign entities, and of borrowings, and other financial instruments 
designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in the 
translation reserve. On the disposal of foreign currency entities, the 
cumulative exchange difference recorded in the translation reserve is 
taken to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
66 www.dssmith.uk.com 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
(g) Intangible assets 
(i) Goodwill 
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase 
method. Goodwill (positive and negative) arising on the acquisition of 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, represents the difference 
between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net 
identifiable assets acquired.  
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses (refer to 
accounting policy (i)). The useful life of goodwill is considered to be 
indefinite. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested 
annually for impairment. Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition  
is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
(ii) Research and development 
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of 
gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding,  
is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. 
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are 
applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process 
is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient 
resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion  
of overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the  
income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development 
expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) 
and impairment losses (refer to accounting policy (i)). 
(iii) Computer software 
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is 
included within tangible fixed assets. All other computer software is 
treated as an intangible asset. 
(iv) Intellectual property 
Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation  
(see below) and impairment losses (refer to accounting policy (i)). 
(v) Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at  
cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses 
(refer to accounting policy (i)).  
(vi) Amortisation 
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding goodwill) is charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives  
of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets  
(other than goodwill) are amortised from the date they are available  
for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Intellectual property Up to 20 years
Computer software 3 – 5 years
Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each statement of 
financial position date, and when there is an indication for impairment. 
(h) Property, plant and equipment and other investments 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (refer to accounting 
policy (i)). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, 
direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. 
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major 
components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as 
separate items of property, plant and equipment. 
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant 
and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost  
is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied 
within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. All other costs are recognised in the income statement 
as an expense as incurred. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant and 
equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately (or 
in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if shorter). Land is not 
depreciated.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10 – 50 years
Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings  
(including IT hardware) 
3 – 20 years
Motor vehicles 3 – 5 years
Other investments consist of available for sale investments in unquoted 
equity and debt securities and are carried at cost, less any impairment. 
(i) Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, including tangible and 
intangible non-current assets, other than inventories (refer to accounting 
policy (l)) and deferred tax assets (refer to accounting policy (t)), are 
reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised 
whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit 
exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the 
income statement.  
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s assets is calculated as the value in 
use, being the present value of expected future cash flows, using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the time value of 
money, or the net selling price, if greater. For an asset that does not 
generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
(ii) Reversals of impairment 
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. In respect of 
other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment 
loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does  
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 67 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED  
(j) Derivative financial instruments  
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, 
currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and 
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities 
and the financing of these activities. The Group has a policy not to,  
and does not, undertake any speculative activity in these instruments.  
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value 
on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as  
assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair  
value is negative.  
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when 
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the 
financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk. 
Any gains or losses arising from the hedging instruments are offset against 
the hedged items.  
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: 
• fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair 
value of a recognised asset or liability; 
• cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with either a 
statement of financial position item or a highly probable forecast 
transaction; or 
• hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity. 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other 
derivatives are taken to the income statement. These may arise from 
derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they  
are not effective as hedging instruments. 
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging 
relationship as follows: 
Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted  
for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged; the derivative is 
remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both are taken to the 
income statement. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting  
if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised,  
the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the  
Group revokes the designation. 
Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion  
is recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to equity are 
transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects 
profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the 
hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts 
taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-
financial asset or liability.  
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised 
without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases to be 
highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts 
previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast 
transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to  
the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset liability as above.  
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts 
previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement. 
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion of the 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, 
while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when  
the foreign entity is sold. 
The net present value of the expected future payments under options over 
interests held by minorities in the Group’s subsidiaries are shown as a 
financial liability. At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability 
is reassessed with any changes recognised in the profit or loss for  
the period. 
(k) Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment 
provisions (refer to accounting policy (i)). 
(l) Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course  
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and 
includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing 
them to their existing location and condition. 
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost 
includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal  
operating capacity. 
(m) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part 
of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash 
and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 
(n) Treasury shares 
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of 
the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised 
as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury 
shares and presented as a deduction from total equity. 
(o) Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable 
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with borrowing costs being 
accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the 
effective interest method.  
At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately from the 
associated borrowings within current liabilities.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
68 www.dssmith.uk.com 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   
(p) Employee benefits 
(i) Defined contribution schemes 
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as 
an employee benefit expense within personnel expenses in the income 
statement, as incurred. 
(ii) Defined benefit schemes 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 
is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the 
current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to its present value 
amount and recognised in the income statement as personnel expense;  
a corresponding liability for all future benefits is established on the 
statement of financial position and the fair value of any schemes’  
assets is deducted.  
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit rated 
bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration of the 
schemes’ obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary 
using the projected unit method.  
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement  
of comprehensive income. 
(iii) Long-term service benefits 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other 
than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have 
earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.  
(iv) Share-based payment transactions 
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.  
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the  
grant of the options is recognised as an employee expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees 
unconditionally become entitled to the awards. The fair value of the 
options granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into  
account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. 
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined  
by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the  
impact of any non-market vesting conditions.  
For options remaining outstanding under the Executive Share Option 
Scheme (1999), which ceased to be operated from September 2008  
(see note 26), non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.  
At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of 
options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact 
of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and  
a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are 
credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the 
options are exercised. It is probable that an outflow of economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and are discounted to present 
value where the effect is material. 
(q) Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the 
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and are discounted to present value 
where the effect is material. 
(r) Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost. 
(s) Leases 
Property, plant and equipment acquired under a lease that transfers 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are 
capitalised as tangible fixed assets. Lease payments are apportioned 
between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.  
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as 
to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability.  
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
(t) Taxation 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and 
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised directly to equity, in which 
case, it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the 
year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, 
and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided for using the statement of financial position 
method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences 
are not provided for: goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities 
that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse 
in the foreseeable future and the Group is able to control the reversal of 
such temporary differences. The amount of deferred tax provided is based 
on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the statement of financial position date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be 
utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
(u) Assets held for sale  
Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, 
that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than 
through continuing use, are classified as held for sale. Immediately before 
classification as held for sale, the assets, or components of a disposal 
group, are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policies. Thereafter, generally the assets, or disposal group, are measured 
at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.  
Any impairment loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, 
and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except  
that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax  
assets and employee benefit assets, which continue to be measured in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Impairment losses on 
initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on 
remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. Gains are not recognised 
in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. 
  
CONTINUED
   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 69 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
(v) Critical accounting policies  
The application of the Group’s accounting policies requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions; these estimates and assumptions 
affect the reported assets and liabilities and financial results of the Group. 
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. 
The Group’s accounting policies that are most critical to an understanding 
of the results and position of the Group, and the judgements involved in 
their application, are as follows: 
(i) Impairments 
When applying IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’, the Group compares  
the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with the higher of 
their net realisable value and value in use to determine whether an 
impairment exists. 
Value in use is calculated by discounting the cash flows expected to be 
generated by the asset/group of assets being tested for evidence of 
impairment. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgements, 
in particular those involved in (a) determining a value based on our 
current expectations of future conditions and the associated cash flows 
from the Group’s operations, (b) our determination of the level at which 
groups of assets can be reasonably tested for impairment separately from 
other parts of the business and (c) our treatment of centrally held assets, 
could each result in materially different carrying values of assets and 
assessments of impairment. See note 10 for additional information. 
(ii) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, requires the Group to make assumptions 
including, but not limited to, future asset returns, rates of inflation, discount 
rates and life expectancies. The use of different assumptions, in any of the 
above calculations, could have a material effect on the accounting values 
of the relevant statement of financial position assets and liabilities which 
could also result in a change to the cost of such liabilities as recognised in 
the income statement over time. These assumptions are subject to periodic 
review. See note 25 for additional information. 
(iii) Accounting for carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions 
There are currently no accounting standards that specifically address 
accounting for emission allowances. The Group, with the agreement of  
its auditors, has applied a ‘net liability’ approach. Under a ‘net liability’ 
approach, no assets or government grants are recognised when 
allowances are initially received. This is because they are ascribed a 
nominal value of nil. As allowances granted to the Group are used to 
offset the liability from CO2 emissions, no accounting entries are required 
so long as the related emissions generated are within the allowance 
received from the government. If such emissions are in excess of the 
allowance received (known as a shortfall position) a provision is made  
at the current market price for carbon credits. In the case where emission 
quotas are acquired through an acquisition, any surplus emission quotas 
are fair valued in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. 
 
(w) IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective 
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) have issued new standards 
and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements. Unless where stated, the Group does not anticipate that the 
adoption of those standards and interpretations that are effective for the financial year ending 30 April 2011 will have a material effect on its financial 
statements on initial adoption. The standards and interpretation to be adopted by the Group include: 
Effective date – 
financial years 
ending
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS) 
IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2,’Share-based Payment’: cash-settled share-based payment transactions 30 April 2011
Revised IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’: The revised standard still requires the purchase method of accounting to be applied 
to business combinations, however, this will introduce some changes to the existing accounting treatment.  
For example, contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently 
remeasured through the income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure 
any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate 
share of the acquiree’s net assets. All transaction costs incurred in connection with a business combination do 
not form part of the business combination transaction and will be expensed. The Group will apply the revised 
IFRS 3 prospectively to all business combinations from 1 May 2010. 
30 April 2011
Amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2011
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues 30 April 2011
IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items 30 April 2011
Improvements to IFRSs issued April 2009. 30 April 2011
 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
70 www.dssmith.uk.com 
2. SEGMENT REPORTING 
Operating segments 
 
Packaging 
For the year ended 30 April 2010 
UK Paper 
and
Corrugated
£m
Continental
European
Corrugated
£m
Plastic 
£m 
Sub-total 
£m 
Office 
Products
Wholesaling
£m
Total
Group
£m
External revenue (sales of goods) 750.2 355.4 231.3 1,336.9 733.7 2,070.6
Adjusted operating profit
1
 35.4 22.9 15.5 73.8 20.2 94.0
Exceptional items (note 4) (4.5) (7.1) 0.1 (11.5) (1.8) (13.3)
Segment result 30.9 15.8 15.6 62.3 18.4 80.7
   
   
Analysis of total assets and total liabilities    
Segment assets 703.1 268.9 158.8 1,130.8 244.4 1,375.2
Unallocated items   
Investments, associates and other assets   2.0
Derivative financial instruments   18.2
Cash and cash equivalents   55.1
Tax balances   83.7
Total assets   1,534.2
 
Segment liabilities (199.1) (81.2) (43.4) (323.7) (129.7) (453.4)
Unallocated items   
Borrowings and accrued interest   (292.2)
Derivative financial instruments   (34.7)
Tax balances   (77.6)
Post-retirement benefits   (203.1)
Total liabilities   (1,061.0)
 
Other segment items:   
Adjusted return on sales – %
1
 4.7% 6.4% 6.7% 5.5% 2.8% 4.5%
Adjusted EBITDA – £m
1
 74.4 38.7 27.6 140.7 25.3 166.0
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %
1
 9.9% 10.9% 11.9% 10.5% 3.4% 8.0%
Year-end capital employed – £m
2
 504.0 187.7 115.4 807.1 114.7 921.8
Average capital employed – £m
2
 538.6 192.4 123.2 854.2 119.4 973.6
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %
1, 2
 6.6% 11.9% 12.6% 8.6% 16.9% 9.7%
Capital expenditure – £m
3
 20.0 12.7 5.4 38.1 3.1 41.2
Depreciation and amortisation – £m 38.9 15.8 12.1 66.8 5.2 72.0
1 before exceptional items 
2 year-end and average capital employed is defined on page 72 
3 capital expenditure represents additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 71 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
2. SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED 
Operating segments continued 
  
Packaging 
  
For the year ended 30 April 2009 
UK Paper and
Corrugated
£m
Continental
European
Corrugated
£m
Plastic 
£m 
Sub-total 
£m 
Office Products
Wholesaling
£m
Total
Group
£m
External revenue (sales of goods)  785.8363.4236.9 1,386.1 720.52,106.6
Adjusted operating profit
1
   36.5 30.4 7.0 73.9 20.1 94.0
Exceptional items (note 4)  (18.2) (24.7) (4.0) (46.9) (3.7) (50.6)
Segment result  18.3 5.7 3.0 27.0 16.4 43.4
   
   
Analysis of total assets and total liabilities    
Segment assets  687.7 265.4 172.4 1,125.5 259.8 1,385.3
Unallocated items    
Investments, associates and other assets     2.6
Derivative financial instruments    25.4
Cash and cash equivalents    62.9
Tax balances    74.5
Total assets    1,550.7
 
Segment liabilities  (183.5) (71.7) (49.4) (304.6) (138.2) (442.8)
Unallocated items    
Borrowings and accrued interest    (355.3)
Derivative financial instruments    (24.4)
Tax balances    (80.5)
Post-retirement benefits    (191.3)
Total liabilities    (1,094.3)
 
Other segment items:    
Adjusted return on sales – %
1
  4.6% 8.4% 3.0% 5.3% 2.8% 4.5%
Adjusted EBITDA – £m
1
  73.245.819.2 138.2 25.7163.9
Adjusted EBITDA margin – %
1
  9.3%12.6%8.1% 10.0% 3.6%7.8%
Year-end capital employed – £m
2
  504.2 193.7 123.0 820.9 121.6 942.5
Average capital employed – £m
2
  545.2 199.6 132.8 877.6 131.9 1,009.5
Adjusted return on average capital employed – %
1, 2
  6.7%15.2%5.3% 8.4% 15.2%9.3%
Capital expenditure – £m
3
  55.218.97.1 81.2 2.083.2
Depreciation and amortisation – £m  36.7 15.4 12.2 64.3 5.6 69.9
1 before exceptional items 
2 year-end and average capital employed is defined on page 72 
3 capital expenditure represents additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
72 www.dssmith.uk.com 
2. SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED 
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ during the year. IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used 
internally for the review of performance and allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive. The Directors have reviewed the business segments 
identified under the previous standard (IAS 14 ‘Segmental Reporting’), and consider that these reported segments remain appropriate under IFRS 8. 
Further details of these business segments are given in the Business Review on pages 1 to 39. Segment results include items directly attributable to  
a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Central administration costs are allocated to the individual segments on a 
consistent basis year-on-year. Assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment at a capital employed level. Capital employed excludes items  
of a financing nature, taxation balances, post-retirement benefit liabilities and non-current asset investments; segmental capital employed comprises 
identifiable segment assets less segmental liabilities. Average capital employed is the average monthly capital employed. The adjusted return on 
average capital employed is defined as operating profit before exceptional items divided by average capital employed. 
In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on geographical location of customers. Non-current assets exclude 
investments and derivative financial instruments and are based on the geographical location of the assets.  
Geographical areas 
 External revenue Non-current assets Capital expenditure 
Year ended 30 April 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK 1,106.3 1,147.6 614.3 639.4 23.5 57.2
France 449.3 447.3 111.8 119.2 5.0 12.2
Rest of Western Continental Europe 335.8 331.9 83.1 91.9 4.1 5.6
Eastern Continental Europe 108.6 113.0 46.1 44.7 6.7 5.5
Rest of the World 70.6 66.8 38.9 38.0 1.9 2.7
 2,070.6 2,106.6 894.2 933.2 41.2 83.2
3. OPERATING PROFIT 
   
2010
£m
2009
£m
Operating expenses   
Distribution expenses   223.5 220.0
Administrative expenses   208.0 238.8
   431.5 458.8
Details of exceptional items recorded within operating profit are set out in note 4. 
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting) the following: 
   
2010
£m
2009
£m
Depreciation – owned assets   67.1 65.5
 – leased assets   0.8 0.9
Amortisation of intangible assets   4.1 3.5
Hire of plant and machinery   12.6 12.3
Other operating lease rentals   13.3 11.9
Research and development   1.8 1.2
Gains on the sale of land and buildings   (2.4) (1.2)
Amounts paid to Deloitte LLP    1.4 1.3
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 73 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
3. OPERATING PROFIT CONTINUED 
2010  2009
Auditors’ remuneration 
UK
£m
Overseas
£m
Total 
£m 
UK 
£m 
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the  
Company’s annual accounts 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates  
for other services:   
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.4 0.6 1.0
Tax and other services 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 – 0.1
 0.8 0.6 1.4 0.7 0.6 1.3
Total non-audit fees relating to tax and other services are £0.3m (2008/09: £0.1m). 
4. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 
Items are presented as ‘exceptional’ in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors consider 
should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results achieved by the Group. 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Restructuring costs 
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging – (18.2)
Continental European Corrugated Packaging (1.2) (1.6)
Plastic Packaging 0.3 (3.5)
Office Products Wholesaling (1.8) (3.7)
Total restructuring costs (2.7) (27.0)
Impairment of associate – (18.1)
Other impairments  (10.2) (5.5)
Disposal costs (0.4) –
Total exceptional items recognised in operating profit/(loss) (13.3) (50.6)
Group’s share of exceptional losses on associate – (5.1)
Total pre-tax exceptional items (13.3) (55.7)
Deferred tax charge following amendment to UK Industrial Building Allowance regime – (13.3)
Income tax credit on exceptional items 0.9 7.9
Total exceptional tax items 0.9 (5.4)
Total post-tax exceptional items (12.4) (61.1)
2009/2010 
The Continental European Corrugated Packaging restructuring of £(1.2)m relates to restructuring in France; the Plastic Packaging restructuring of  
£0.3m relates to a gain on reversal of under-utilised provisions; restructuring of £(1.8)m within Office Products Wholesaling relates to Spicers UK;  
other impairments are described in notes 10 and 17; disposal costs predominantly relate to the sale of Demes Logistics GmbH & Co KG (see note 31). 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
74 www.dssmith.uk.com 
4. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS CONTINUED 
2008/09 
The UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging restructuring of £(18.2)m relates to the costs of restructuring the Group’s paper-making and corrugated 
packaging facilities across the UK. This includes the cost of restructuring following the conversion of the New Thames Mill.  
The Continental European Corrugated Packaging restructuring of £(1.6)m relates to restructuring of corrugated packaging facilities in France. 
The Plastic Packaging restructuring of £(3.5)m relates to the closure of the Rugby office and related restructurings. 
The Office Products Wholesaling restructuring of £(3.7)m relates to restructuring costs of Spicers UK, including the closure of the office furniture business. 
Included within total restructuring costs for the year of £(27.0)m are fixed asset impairments of £0.6m. 
Impairment of associate is in respect of the write down of the Group’s investment in Rubezhansk (note 12). 
Other impairments include a £5.0m impairment of the fixed assets in the Group’s subsidiary in Turkey (Continental European Corrugated Packaging), 
and £0.5m impairment of an option to acquire a 20% holding in an Italian plastic packaging business. 
The Group recognised a £(5.1)m exceptional loss in respect of the Group’s share of losses incurred by Rubezhansk, the Group’s associate in Ukraine 
(see note 12). 
The exceptional tax of £(5.4)m includes a deferred tax charge of £13.3m following amendment to the UK Industrial Building Allowance regime.  
This is partially offset by £7.9m of income tax credits on the restructuring costs. 
5. FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Interest on loans and overdrafts 14.8 23.7
Finance lease interest 0.1 0.3
Other 1.0 2.1
Finance costs 15.9 26.1
 
Interest income from financial assets  (0.7) (1.7)
Other (0.8) (0.8)
Finance income (1.5) (2.5)
Other finance costs largely relate to the increase in the fair value of the non-controlling shareholders’ put options in Toscana Ondulati SpA (see note 24). 
Included within other finance income is £0.6m (2008/09: £0.6m) of hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges and fair value hedges. Refer to 
note 21(c) for further details of cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges. 
6. PERSONNEL EXPENSES  
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 316.6 318.6
Social security costs 52.7 49.9
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 2.6 2.9
Service costs for defined benefit schemes (see note 25) 8.5 11.7
Share-based payment expense (see note 26) 1.4 0.3
Personnel expenses 381.8 383.4
The average number of employees (full-time equivalents) during the financial year, analysed by geographical region was: 
 
2010
Number
2009
Number
UK 6,273 6,913
France 1,638 1,724
Rest of Western Continental Europe 1,337 1,449
Eastern Continental Europe 1,054 1,120
Rest of the World 474 504
Average number of employees 10,776 11,710  
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 75 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE  
Income tax expense recognised in the income statement 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current tax expense 
Current year (18.7) (21.0)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (8.7) –
 (27.4) (21.0)
Deferred tax (expense)/credit 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.2) 5.9
Abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances – (13.3)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 12.7 0.4
 10.5 (7.0)
Total income tax expense in the income statement (16.9) (28.0)
During the year, the Group has undertaken a review of its current and deferred tax balances primarily as a result of significant adjustments to its UK  
tax depreciation claims in submitted tax computations in earlier years. This review has resulted in a net credit to the income statement of £4.0m and  
a significant movement between prior year current and deferred tax. 
The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit before income tax 55.0 16.8
Less: share of (profit)/loss of associates (0.2) 4.5
Profit before tax and share of profit/(loss) of associates 54.8 21.3
 
Income tax calculated using the domestic corporation tax rate of 28.0% (2008/09: 28.0%) (15.3) (6.0)
Effect of tax rates in overseas jurisdictions  (2.8) (2.7)
Non-deductible expenses (3.9) (5.7)
Utilisation/(origination) of tax losses not recognised 0.5 (2.0)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 4.0 0.4
Abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances – (13.3)
Other 0.6 1.3
Income tax expense (16.9) (28.0)
 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 
Relating to post-retirement benefits 3.3 34.9
Other 4.3 18.4
 7.6 53.3
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
76 www.dssmith.uk.com 
8. EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Basic earnings per share 
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 30 April 2010 is based on the profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders of £37.9m  
(2008/09: £(11.8m)) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 April 2010 of 391.0m  
(2008/09: 390.9m). The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Company’s own shares held as treasury shares during  
the year of 2.4m (2008/09: 2.4m). 
 2010 2009
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders (£m) £37.9m £(11.8)m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 April (million) 391.0m 390.9m 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 9.7p (3.0)p 
Diluted earnings per share 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 30 April 2010 is based on profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders of £37.9m (2008/09: 
£(11.8m)) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 April 2010, as adjusted for potentially issuable 
ordinary shares, of 399.5m (2008/09: 392.5m), calculated as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders (£m)  37.9 (11.8)
 
In millions of shares 
2010 2009
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 April  391.0 390.9
Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 8.5 1.6
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) at 30 April  399.5 392.5
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share  9.5p (3.0)p
Adjusted earnings per share 
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share amount, being the basic earnings/(loss) per share adjusted for exceptional 
items, helps to explain the underlying performance of the Group. A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is as follows: 
2010  2009
£m
Basic – 
pence 
per share
Diluted – 
pence  
per share £m 
Basic – 
pence 
per share
Diluted – 
pence 
per share
Basic earnings/(loss) 37.9 9.7p 9.5p (11.8) (3.0)p (3.0)p
Add back exceptional items, after tax 12.4 3.2p 3.1p 61.1 15.6p 15.6p
Adjusted earnings 50.3 12.9p 12.6p 49.3 12.6p 12.6p
9. DIVIDENDS 
Dividends proposed and paid by the Group are as follows: 
2010 2009 
Pence per 
share £m 
Pence per 
share £m
Interim dividend – paid 1.5p 5.9 2.6p 10.2
Final dividend – proposed 3.1p 12.1 1.8p 7.0
 4.6p 18.0 4.4p 17.2
   
   
2010
£m
2009
£m
Paid during the year   12.9 34.4
A final dividend in respect of 2009/10 of 3.1 pence per share (£12.1m) has been proposed by the Directors after the statement of financial position 
date and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 77 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Goodwill
£m
Software 
£m 
Intellectual 
property 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
Balance at 1 May 2009 214.4 36.4 13.1 11.0 274.9
Acquisitions through business combinations  0.7 – – – 0.7
Additions  – 1.8 0.2 4.4 6.4
Disposals (0.3) (2.3) – (0.4) (3.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1.3 (0.3) – (0.2) 0.8
Balance at 30 April 2010 216.1 35.6 13.3 14.8 279.8
 
Amortisation and impairment losses   
Balance at 1 May 2009 (15.1) (31.9) (5.0) (0.9) (52.9)
Amortisation for the year – (1.7) (0.8) (1.6) (4.1)
Impairment loss (4.3) – – – (4.3)
Disposals 0.4 2.1 – – 2.5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – 0.3 – (0.1) 0.2
Balance at 30 April 2010 (19.0) (31.2) (5.8) (2.6) (58.6)
Carrying amount   
Balance as at 1 May 2009 199.3 4.5 8.1 10.1 222.0
Balance as at 30 April 2010 197.1 4.4 7.5 12.2 221.2
 
Goodwill
£m
Software 
£m 
Intellectual 
property 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
Balance at 1 May 2008 207.0 34.7 12.9 9.1 263.7
Acquisitions through business combinations  0.2 – – 1.7 1.9
Additions  0.1 1.6 – 1.5 3.2
Disposals – (1.5) – (1.7) (3.2)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 7.1 1.6 0.2 0.4 9.3
Balance at 30 April 2009 214.4 36.4 13.1 11.0 274.9
 
Amortisation   
Balance at 1 May 2008 (14.1) (29.8) (4.3) (0.3) (48.5)
Amortisation for the year – (2.2) (0.7) (0.6) (3.5)
Disposals –1.4 – –1.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.0) (1.3) – – (2.3)
Balance at 30 April 2009 (15.1) (31.9) (5.0) (0.9) (52.9)
Carrying amount   
Balance as at 1 May 2008 192.9 4.9 8.6 8.8 215.2
Balance as at 30 April 2009 199.3 4.5 8.1 10.1 222.0
The amortisation charge for the year of £4.1m (2008/09: £3.5m) is included within administrative expenses. The impairment loss for the year of £4.3m 
(2008/09: £nil) is included within exceptional items. The other items above include acquired emissions quotas which are capitalised as an asset when 
granted to the Group and treated as a disposal when used to satisfy the Group’s obligations or sold, as explained in note 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
78 www.dssmith.uk.com 
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED 
Impairment loss 
Due to the downturn in the non-food retail sector, resulting from the UK recession, the Multigraphics business, a UK business which provides printing 
services and display material for the retail sector, which was acquired in 2008, has not met the Group’s expectations as at 30 April 2010. The Group 
has implemented a new business plan which resulted in an impairment loss being recognised on the goodwill identified at the time of acquisition. 
The recoverable amount of the Multigraphics cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) was estimated based on its value in use. Based on the assessment performed, 
the carrying amount of the CGU was determined to be £3.9m higher than its recoverable amount, resulting in an impairment loss being recognised. 
The estimate of value in use was determined using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.8% (2008/09: 11.8%). 
The impairment loss is recognised in exceptional items within the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment. An additional goodwill impairment loss 
of £0.4m has also been recognised due to the carrying amount of another CGU within the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment exceeding its 
recoverable amount estimated based on its value in use. 
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill 
The following segments have CGUs containing significant carrying amounts of goodwill after the impairment losses recognised: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 140.2 144.3
Plastic Packaging 40.8 39.1
 181.0 183.4
Segments with no CGUs containing individually significant goodwill 16.1 15.9
Total goodwill 197.1 199.3
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts 
of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.  
The key assumptions in the value in use calculation were: 
• cash forecasts derived from the latest budgets and forecasts for the two years ending 30 April 2012 as approved by the Directors. Cash flows for the 
following three years were extrapolated assuming a progressive recovery in margins to historical levels; 
• the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) for the Group is 11.8% (2008/09: 11.8%). The Group believes that the risk profile across the 
significant markets in which it operates are not significantly different, hence the same WACC is universally applied across all CGUs; and 
• long-term growth rates are either equal to or less than the inflation assumption. 
The outcome of the impairment tests for the CGUs containing significant carrying amounts of goodwill (after the impairment losses recognised) is 
summarised as follows: 
Headroom 
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 114.5 47.6
Plastic Packaging 68.9 55.3
The headroom represents the difference between the calculated value in use and the net asset carrying value of the CGU. 
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible further impairment would be identified if any of the above key assumptions were 
changed significantly. For instance, factors which could cause impairment are: 
• significant underperformance relative to the forecast results; 
• changes to the way the assets are used or our strategy for the business;  
• a further deterioration in the industry or the wider economy; and 
• an increase in the Group’s WACC. 
The value in use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows. The Directors believe the assumptions used are appropriate, but in addition 
have conducted sensitivity analysis to determine the changes in assumptions that would result in impairment. 
A half percentage point increase in the WACC to 12.3% would result in a reduction in the headroom for the CGUs containing significant carrying 
amounts of goodwill within UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging, reducing to circa £86m. The headroom for the CGUs containing significant carrying 
amounts of goodwill within Plastic Packaging would similarly reduce to circa £61m. 
In order for there to be no further impairments within UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging, adjusted operating profits will need to achieve circa £69m 
in 2015/16; this compares to £36.5m in 2008/09 and £35.4m in 2009/10. The assumptions underpinning UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 
adjusted operating profits reflect managements’ expectations of a return to historic levels of margins and profitability by 2015/16.   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 79 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings 
£m 
Under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
Balance at 1 May 2009 334.6 1,148.8 66.4 20.9 1,570.7
Acquisitions through business combinations 0.7 1.8 0.2 – 2.7
Additions 1.6 19.9 1.2 12.3 35.0
Disposals  (2.3) (38.0) (7.3) – (47.6)
Transfers 4.4 16.4 (2.9) (17.9) –
Reclassification to held for sale (9.3) (29.5) (0.2) – (39.0)
Other reclassification 0.4 3.3 0.1 0.1 3.9
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.9) (6.5) 0.8 – (7.6)
Balance at 30 April 2010 328.21,116.2 58.3 15.41,518.1
 
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 May 2009 (90.2) (787.6) (55.8) – (933.6)
Acquisitions through business combinations (0.1) (1.2) (0.1) – (1.4)
Depreciation charge for the year (7.2) (58.1) (2.6) – (67.9)
Disposals 1.1 30.8 7.1 – 39.0
Reclassification to held for sale 5.2 28.9 0.2 – 34.3
Other reclassification (1.3) (2.9) 0.3 – (3.9)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 3.4 (0.8) 3.6 – 6.2
Balance at 30 April 2010 (89.1) (790.9) (47.3) –(927.3)
 
Carrying amount   
Balance as at 1 May 2009 244.4 361.2 10.6 20.9 637.1
Balance as at 30 April 2010 239.1 325.3 11.0 15.4 590.8
Leased property, plant and equipment 
The amounts above include land and buildings held under finance lease agreements. At 30 April 2010, the carrying amount of land and buildings  
held under finance leases was £6.3m (2009: £6.9m). 
Property, plant and equipment under construction 
Assets under construction mainly related to production machines being built for various sites across the Group.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
80 www.dssmith.uk.com 
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings 
£m 
Under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
Balance at 1 May 2008 321.8 1,078.1 63.1 21.9 1,484.9
Acquisitions through business combinations  – 0.2 – – 0.2
Additions 3.5 71.2 1.3 5.0 81.0
Disposals  (2.8) (51.6) (2.6) (0.5) (57.5)
Transfers 0.3 7.0 (0.3) (7.0) –
Reclassification from inventory – 2.4 0.8 0.2 3.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 11.8 41.5 4.1 1.3 58.7
Balance at 30 April 2009 334.6 1,148.8 66.4 20.9 1,570.7
 
Depreciation and impairment losses   
Balance at 1 May 2008 (82.3) (743.9) (51.6) – (877.8)
Depreciation charge for the year (7.4) (55.9) (3.2) 0.1 (66.4)
Impairments – (5.6) – – (5.6)
Disposals 3.5 48.3 2.4 – 54.2
Reclassification from inventory – (1.2) (0.2) (0.1) (1.5)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (4.0) (29.3) (3.2) – (36.5)
Balance at 30 April 2009 (90.2) (787.6) (55.8) – (933.6)
 
Carrying amount   
Balance as at 1 May 2008 239.5 334.2 11.5 21.9 607.1
Balance as at 30 April 2009 244.4 361.2 10.6 20.9 637.1
In 2008/09, capital spares with a net book value of £1.9m were reclassified from inventory to property, plant and equipment in accordance with the 
Group accounting policy. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 81 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
12. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES 
 
 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Balance at 1 May  0.3 30.0
Share of profit of associates after interest and tax, including exceptional loss of £nil (2008/09: £5.1m)  0.2 (4.5)
Intra-group profit elimination  – (0.4)
Impairment  – (18.1)
Transfer to a subsidiary  (0.5) –
Exchange differences  – (6.7)
Balance at 30 April  – 0.3
The share of profit from associates is in respect of Winfried Wirth GmbH, which became a subsidiary during 2009/10 and is therefore no longer 
accounted for using the equity method. 
    Ownership interest
 Nature of business Principal country of operation Financial year end  2010 2009
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and  
Packaging Mill (Rubezhansk) 
Manufacturer of paper  
and packaging Ukraine 31 December  49.6% 49.6%
Rubezhansk is accounted for using the equity method within these financial statements. 
In 2008/09, the Group fully impaired the carrying value of its investment in Rubezhansk and recognised an exceptional loss of £5.1m, being the 
Group’s share of the after-tax net loss at Rubezhansk incurred in the second half of 2008/09. This was as a result of foreign exchange losses on the 
US$87m loan, following the significant decline in the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US dollar. Exchange rate movements resulted in Rubezhansk 
breaching its banking covenants. 
In 2009/10, negotiations continue with Rubezhank’s bankers following the breaching of the banking covenants. Whilst the uncertainty of the financial 
position continues at Rubezhansk, the Group has not recognised any profits in respect of its investment in the associate. 
Summary of financial information in associate 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Rubezhansk  
Assets 120.6 116.1
Liabilities (62.9) (71.8)
Revenues 57.4 82.8
Profit/(loss) after tax 1.7 (9.5)
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Non-current investments 0.8 0.8
Current investments 0.2 0.5
Non-current investments comprise investments in the equity and debt securities of unlisted companies. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
82 www.dssmith.uk.com 
14. INVENTORIES 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Raw materials and consumables 62.2 54.0
Work in progress 4.4 3.2
Finished goods 108.2 113.0
 174.8 170.2
The Group consumed £1,558.4m (2008/09: £1,604.4m) of inventories recognised as cost of sales during the year. Provisions against inventories 
totalled £20.1m (30 April 2009: £20.2m). 
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
2010 2009 
Non-current 
£m 
Current  
£m 
Non-current 
£m
Current 
£m
Trade receivables  – 366.5 – 346.4
Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables – (17.7) – (21.7)
Prepayments and other receivables 0.8 31.7 0.9 31.4
 0.8 380.5 0.9 356.1
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of trade receivables from the date credit  
was initially granted up to the reporting date. The fair value of trade and other receivables is not materially different from their carrying amounts above. 
Refer to note 21(d)(iii) for further quantitative and qualitative analysis of credit risk. 
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
2010 2009 
Non-current 
£m 
Current  
£m 
Non-current 
£m
Current 
£m
Trade payables – 307.3 – 288.8
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 3.9 123.1 3.8 123.3
 3.9 430.4 3.8 412.1
The fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from their carrying amounts shown above. 
17. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE 
The Copikas business, a corrugated packaging business in Turkey, within the Continental European Corrugated Packaging segment, is presented  
as a disposal group held for sale following the commitment of the Board, on 27 April 2010, to a plan to sell the business to focus on growing core 
businesses of scale within its portfolio. The sale of Copikas for a cash consideration of £4.7m (payable on completion), which was agreed on  
28 May 2010 with Olmuksa International Paper-Sabanci Ambalaj Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S., is subject to the Turkish Competition Board’s approval  
that is anticipated will take around six weeks. At 30 April 2010, the disposal group comprised assets of £7.4m, less liabilities of £5.7m.  
An exceptional impairment loss of £5.9m on the remeasurement of the disposal group to the lower of its carrying amount and its fair value less costs to 
sell has been recognised in exceptional items, of which £4.7m has been allocated against property, plant and equipment and the remainder against 
inventories (see note 4). 
Additionally, assets of £0.7m less liabilities of £0.4m of a small packaging business within the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging business have 
been presented as assets and liabilities held for sale following the commitment of the Board, on 27 April 2010, to dispose of the business. 
 
2010
£m
Assets classified as held for sale 
Property, plant and equipment –
Inventories 0.8
Trade and other receivables 7.3
 8.1
 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 83 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
17. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE CONTINUED 
 
2010
£m
Liabilities classified as held for sale 
Trade and other payables (5.3)
Provisions (0.2)
Post-retirement benefits (0.6)
 (6.1)
18. NET DEBT 
  
2010
£m
2009
£m
Non-current liabilities  256.4 331.5
Current liabilities  5.7 5.8
Derivative financial instruments  10.2 8.3
Net cash and cash equivalents  (32.8) (54.1)
Net debt  239.5 291.5
Net debt divided by EBITDA (before exceptional items)  1.4x 1.8x
Gearing (net debt expressed as a percentage of net assets)  50.6% 63.9%
The movement in Group net debt is as set out in the table below: 
At
1 May
2009
£m
Cash flow 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and 
disposals 
£m 
Foreign
exchange
and
fair value
movements
£m
At
30 April
2010
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 62.9 (7.3) – (0.5) 55.1
Overdrafts (8.8) (14.5) – 1.0 (22.3)
Net cash and cash equivalents 54.1 (21.8) – 0.5 32.8
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year (326.2) 65.7 (0.5) 9.6 (251.4)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year (4.9) 0.2 – (0.3) (5.0)
Finance leases (6.2) 0.4 (0.4) 0.5 (5.7)
Derivative financial instruments   
– assets 11.0 – – 0.3 11.3
– liabilities (19.3) – – (2.2) (21.5)
 (345.6) 66.3 (0.9) 7.9 (272.3)
Total net debt (291.5) 44.5 (0.9) 8.4 (239.5)
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
84 www.dssmith.uk.com 
19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank balances 51.4 55.4
Short-term deposits 3.7 7.5
Cash and cash equivalents (per statement of financial position) 55.1 62.9
Bank overdrafts (22.3) (8.8)
Net cash and cash equivalents (per statement of cash flows) 32.8 54.1
20. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the  
Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, refer to note 21. 
2010 2009 
Current 
£m 
Non-current 
£m 
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Borrowings measured at amortised cost   
Bank and other loans 5.0 13.5 4.9 80.2
Note purchase agreements – 49.0 – 50.6
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 5.0 0.9 5.3
 5.7 67.5 5.8 136.1
Borrowings in a fair value hedge relationship   
Note purchase agreements – 188.9 – 195.4
 5.7 256.4 5.8 331.5
Bank loans, other loans and overdrafts of certain subsidiaries totalling £2.6m (2009: £3.4m) are secured over the properties and machinery of these 
companies. The holder of the security does not have the right to sell or re-pledge the assets as security. 
The repayment dates of the Group’s borrowings are as follows: 
2010 
1 year
or less
£m
1–2 
years 
£m 
2–5 
years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate 0.3 0.1 65.2 49.2 114.8
Floating-rate 5.4 2.2 122.7 17.0 147.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 5.7 2.3 187.9 66.2 262.1
 
2009 
1 year
or less
£m
1–2 
years 
£m 
2–5 
years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate 0.4 0.2 67.1 50.8 118.5
Floating-rate 5.4 1.6 115.8 96.0 218.8
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 5.8 1.8 182.9 146.8 337.3
 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 85 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
20. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED 
The Group’s borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps, are denominated in the  
following currencies: 
Sterling
£m
Euro 
£m 
US dollar 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 30 April 2010   
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate 49.3 65.5 – –114.8
Floating-rate 26.8 99.1 17.6 3.8 147.3
 76.1 164.6 17.6 3.8 262.1
Net cash and cash equivalents (including bank overdrafts)   
Fixed-rate – (2.4) (4.1) (2.2) (8.7)
Floating-rate (11.4) (10.3) 0.7 (3.1) (24.1)
 (11.4) (12.7) (3.4) (5.3) (32.8)
Net borrowings/(cash) at 30 April 2010 64.7 151.9 14.2 (1.5) 229.3
Sterling
£m
Euro 
£m 
US dollar 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 30 April 2009   
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate 51.1 67.4 – – 118.5
Floating-rate 26.8 153.1 35.1 3.8 218.8
 77.9 220.5 35.1 3.8 337.3
Net cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts)   
Fixed-rate – (9.9) (2.9) (4.3) (17.1)
Floating-rate (10.7) (15.7) (2.4) (8.2) (37.0)
 (10.7) (25.6) (5.3) (12.5) (54.1)
Net borrowings/(cash) at 30 April 2009 67.2 194.9 29.8 (8.7) 283.2
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows:  
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Expiring within one year 19.1 78.8
Expiring between one and two years 17.4 8.9
Expiring between two and five years 274.5 208.0
 311.0 295.7
At 30 April 2010, 66% (30 April 2009: 69%) of the Group’s net borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were 
denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Group’s relevant continental European operations. Interest rates on floating-rate 
borrowings are based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) or base rates. 
In August 2008, the Group entered into a syndicated revolving credit facility of £287.5m, which expires on 29 August 2013. Advances drawn down 
under the facility bear interest at a margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR. 
In November 2002, the Group entered into a note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of DS Smith Plc’s 6.24% 
senior notes and £25m of 6.85% senior notes, which will mature on 14 November 2012. The Group entered into a swap transaction with a bank 
counterparty under which it made a payment of US$80m in return for €81.6m. The swap counterparty also agreed to pay fixed-rate dollar interest of 
6.24% per annum in exchange for floating euro rate interest at rates linked to EURIBOR. In addition, swap counterparties also agreed to pay fixed-rate 
dollar interest of 6.24% per annum on a principal amount of US$25m in exchange for floating dollar interest linked to dollar LIBOR and fixed-rate 
sterling interest of 6.85% per annum on a principal of £25m in exchange for floating sterling interest linked to sterling LIBOR. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
86 www.dssmith.uk.com 
20. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED 
In August 2004, the Group entered into a further note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of DS Smith Plc’s 
5.66% senior notes and US$95m of 5.80% senior notes, which will mature on 25 August 2014 and 25 August 2016, respectively. The Group  
entered into swap transactions with a bank counterparty under which it made payments of US$105m and US$20m in return for €86.5m and €16.5m, 
respectively, and a payment of US$75m in return for £40.8m. The swap counterparty agreed to pay fixed-rate dollar interest of 5.66% per annum and 
5.80% per annum, respectively, in exchange for floating euro rate interest at rates linked to EURIBOR and fixed-rate dollar interest of 5.80% per annum 
in exchange for fixed-rate sterling interest at rates of 6.21% per annum. 
Finance lease liabilities 
2010 2009 
Future 
minimum
lease
payments
£m
Interest
£m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m 
Future 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m 
Interest
£m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments
£m
Less than one year 0.8 (0.1) 0.7 1.0 (0.1) 0.9
Between one and five years 3.3 (0.9) 2.4 2.8 (0.7) 2.1
More than five years 2.7 (0.1) 2.6 3.5 (0.3) 3.2
Finance lease liabilities 6.8 (1.1) 5.7 7.3 (1.1) 6.2
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Group’s activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.  
A summary of the Group’s key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and  
Risk Management sections of the Business Review on pages 28 to 33. 
The derivative financial instruments set out in this note have been entered into to help achieve the Group’s risk management objectives.  
The Group’s treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions. 
(a) Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
2010 2009 
Carrying 
amount 
£m 
Fair value  
£m 
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Financial assets   
Cash and cash equivalents  55.1 55.1 62.9 62.9
Available-for-sale:   
Other investments 1.0 1.0 1.3 1.3
Loans and receivables:   
Trade and other receivables 381.3 381.3 357.0 357.0
Derivative financial instruments:   
Other financial assets in designated hedge accounting relationships 18.2 18.2 25.4 25.4
Total financial assets 455.6 455.6 446.6 446.6
 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 87 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(a) Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued 
2010 2009 
Carrying 
amount 
£m 
Fair value  
£m 
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Financial liabilities   
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:   
Trade and other payables  (434.3) (434.3) (415.9) (415.9)
Bank and other loans (18.5) (18.5) (85.1) (85.1)
Note purchase agreements  (237.9) (246.3) (246.0) (255.9)
Finance lease liabilities (5.7) (5.7) (6.2) (6.2)
Bank overdrafts (22.3) (22.3) (8.8) (8.8)
Derivative financial instruments:   
Other financial liabilities in designated hedge accounting relationships (34.7) (34.7) (24.4) (24.4)
Total financial liabilities (753.4) (761.8) (786.4) (796.3)
The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arm’s-length basis. For financial instruments carried at 
fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists. The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward 
foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note 
purchase agreements, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps. All derivative financial assets and liabilities are shown at fair value on the statement 
of financial position. Under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, hedge accounting rules, only portions of the note purchase 
agreements which form part of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the statement of financial position. The fair value of financial 
assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest is estimated to be equivalent to book value. 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ requires the classification of fair value measurements using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the 
significance of the inputs used in making the assessments: 
• Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; 
• Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or 
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
• Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
All of the Group’s financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments. The Group does not hold any Level 1 or Level 3 financial instruments. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
88 www.dssmith.uk.com 
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(b) Derivative financial instruments 
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and 
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities and the financing of these activities. All derivatives have been designated  
as effective hedging instruments and are carried at their fair value. 
The assets and liabilities of the Group as at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: 
Assets Liabilities Net 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Derivatives held to   
Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on borrowings  
and net investments 11.3 11.0 (21.5) (19.3) (10.2) (8.3)
Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 11.3 11.0 (21.5) (19.3) (10.2) (8.3)
Derivatives held to   
Hedge future transactions – energy costs 5.3 11.2 (13.1) (4.5) (7.8) 6.7
Hedge future transactions – foreign exchange on purchases  
and sales of goods and services 1.6 3.2 (0.1) (0.6) 1.5 2.6
Total derivative financial instruments 18.2 25.4 (34.7) (24.4) (16.5) 1.0
 
Current 6.3 11.7 (8.7) (0.7) (2.4) 11.0
Non-current 11.9 13.7 (26.0) (23.7) (14.1) (10.0)
 18.2 25.4 (34.7) (24.4) (16.5) 1.0
(c) Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges 
(i) Cash flow hedging reserve movements 
The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year. All figures are post-tax. 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Balance at 1 May 2.7 13.0
Unrealised fair value gain/(loss) on designated cash flow hedges 
Forward exchange contracts 1.7 1.6
Cross-currency and interest rate swaps – (4.6)
Commodity contracts (4.4) (2.3)
Losses/(gains) in equity recycled to the income statement* 
Forward exchange contracts (1.4) 0.6
Commodity contracts (6.0) (5.1)
 (Gains) in equity recycled to the statement of financial position** 
Forward exchange contracts – (0.5)
Balance at 30 April (7.4) 2.7
* (Gains)/losses in equity transferred to profit or loss during the period are included in the line items on the face of the income statement shown in the table below. 
** (Gains)/losses in equity transferred to the statement of financial position during the period are included in the line items on the face of the statement of financial position 
shown in the table below.  
 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 89 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(c) Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges continued 
(i) Cash flow hedging reserve movements continued 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue 0.8 1.2
Cost of sales (11.2) (7.5)
Income tax 3.0 1.8
 (7.4) (4.5)
 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Property, plant and equipment – (0.5)
(ii) Fair value hedges 
At 30 April 2010, the Group held interest rate and currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate debt 
payable by the Group. The receive leg of the swap contracts is largely identical for all critical aspects to the terms of the underlying debt and thus the 
hedging is highly effective. The pre-tax loss on the hedging derivative instruments taken to the income statement in the year was £6.2m (2008/09: gain 
of £48.4m) offset by a pre-tax gain on the fair value of the debt of £6.1m (2008/09: loss of £47.2m). 
(iii) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
The Group holds currency swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries. The pre-tax gain on the hedges recognised in 
equity in the year was £5.7m (2008/09: loss of £19.4m). The gain or loss is matched by a similar gain or loss in equity on the retranslation of the 
hedged foreign subsidiary’s net assets. During the year, hedge ineffectiveness arising from hedges of net investments resulted in a gain of £0.7m 
(2008/09: loss of £0.6m). 
(d) Risk identification and risk management 
(i) Capital risk 
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of cash: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders’ equity and disposals of peripheral 
businesses, where appropriate. The Group’s objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing 
flexibility in immediate and medium-term funding so as to accommodate material investments or acquisitions. The Group also aims to maintain a strong 
statement of financial position and to provide continuity of financing by having a range of maturities and borrowings from a variety of sources. 
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage financial risks. 
The Group’s treasury strategy is controlled though the Treasury Committee, which meets regularly and includes the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director and the Group Treasurer. The Group Treasury Function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board 
and controlled by the Group Treasurer. The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for 
interest rate, foreign exchange rate and energy exposure management. 
(ii) Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices. The Group is 
exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. The risk is managed by the 
Group maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts. Hedging activities  
are evaluated regularly to align with expectations of changes in interest rates, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning the 
statement of financial position or protecting interest rate expense through interest rate cycles. The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets 
and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note. 
At 30 April 2010, 44% (2009: 35%) of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings were fixed for a period of at least one year. The sensitivity 
analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates (representing management’s assessment  
of the reasonably possible change in interest rates) in all currencies in which the Group had variable rate borrowings at 30 April. 
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits have been 
increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Group’s interest rate 
derivatives. The effect on equity includes the above impact on the income statement and the impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates  
on the market values of the Group’s interest rate derivatives.  
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
90 www.dssmith.uk.com 
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
(ii) Market risk continued 
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.  
2010 2009 
Impact on 
profit 
£m 
Impact on 
total equity 
£m 
Impact on
profit
£m
Impact on
total equity
£m
Increase in market interest rates by 100 basis points (1.2) – (1.8) –
Under interest rate swap contracts the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed 
notional principal amounts. At 30 April 2010, losses of £3.5m (2009: losses of £3.5m) (net of tax) are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow 
hedges of interest rate risk. This will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement,  
which will occur over time to 2016. 
Foreign exchange risk 
Foreign exchange risk on investments 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ from the Group’s 
presentational currency. The Group hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and through cross-currency swaps. 
Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in reserves. 
Foreign exchange risk on borrowings 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. The Group hedges this exposure through cross-
currency swaps designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.  
Foreign exchange risk on transactions 
Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales and material purchases in a currency other than its functional 
currency. Part of this risk is hedged using foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.  
At 30 April 2010, gains of £1.8m (2009: gains of £1.4m) (net of tax) is deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges. This will be recycled to the 
income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which occurs within two years. During the year, £1.4m of 
gains deferred in equity were transferred to the income statement (2008/09: losses of £0.6m). 
The Group’s main currency exposures are from the euro and US dollar. The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Group’s results of  
a 10% change in the year-end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies. 10% represents management’s assessment of the reasonably 
possible change in foreign exchange rates. The analysis is only on financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact  
of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges. Loans that are treated as net investment hedges are not recorded within the impact on  
the Group’s profit as the impact of foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and opposite movements in the foreign assets that the 
instruments hedge. 
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax. 
2010 2009 
Impact on 
profit 
£m 
Impact on 
total equity 
£m 
Impact on
profit
£m
Impact on
total equity
£m
10% strengthening of sterling (0.8) (0.6) (0.8) 0.9
10% weakening of sterling 0.9 0.7 1.0 (1.1)
Commodity risk 
The Group’s main commodity exposures are to changes in UK gas and UK electricity prices. Part of this commodity price risk is managed by a 
combination of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments. At 30 April 2010, losses of £5.7m (2009: gains of £4.8m) (net of tax) is 
deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39. This will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the 
hedged item also affects the income statement, which occurs within two years. During the year, gains of £6.0m deferred in equity were transferred to 
the income statement (2008/09: gains of £5.1m). 
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is management’s assessment of the reasonably possible 
approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year. In some years prices will be less volatile and in others they may be 
more volatile. A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity. As all of the Group’s commodity financial instruments 
achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either financial year. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 91 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
(ii) Market risk continued 
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax. 
2010 2009 
Impact on 
profit 
£m 
Impact on 
total equity 
£m 
Impact on
profit
£m
Impact on
total equity
£m
10% increase in UK electricity prices – 0.4 ––
10% increase in UK gas prices – 1.8 –2.1
(iii) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial loss to  
the Group. In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit risk. The carrying amount  
of financial assets at 30 April 2010 was £455.6m (2009: £446.6m) and is analysed in note 21(a). This represents the maximum credit exposure.  
The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are 
limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and diverse. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess  
of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts (see note 15). 
Net carrying
amount
(see note 15)
£m
Of which 
neither
impaired
nor past
due
£m
Of which past due but not impaired 
1 month
or less
£m
1–3 months 
£m 
3–6 months 
£m 
6–12 
months
£m
More than
12 months
£m
The ageing of trade receivables        
As at 30 April 2010 348.8 280.4 63.7 3.0 1.0 0.3 0.4
As at 30 April 2009 324.7 300.7 16.6 5.4 1.0 0.6 0.4
 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Movement in the allowance for bad and doubtful receivables 
Balance as at 1 May (21.7) (13.7)
Uncollectible amounts written off, net of receivables 6.3 0.3
Increase in allowance recognised in profit or loss (3.3) (7.1)
Reclassification to assets held for sale 0.7 –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.3 (1.2)
Balance as at 30 April (see note 15) (17.7) (21.7)
Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed through reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned to that 
counterparty by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. During the year increased scrutiny has been given to all of the Group’s banking counterparties  
and exposures have been reduced if deemed necessary. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
92 www.dssmith.uk.com 
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
(iv) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they  
fall due. 
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining adequate financial resources, by continuously monitoring forecasted and actual cash flows and  
by matching the maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities to these risks.  
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities (including the effect of cross-currency and interest  
rate swaps). 
Contractual repayments 
As at 30 April 2010 
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
  
Trade and other payables 434.3 434.3 430.4 3.9 –
Bank and other loans 18.5 18.5 5.0 13.5 –
Note purchase agreements 237.9224.2 – 162.2 62.0
Finance lease liabilities 5.7 5.7 0.7 2.4 2.6
Bank overdrafts 22.3 22.3 22.3 – –
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 718.7 705.0 458.4 182.0 64.6
 
Contractual repayments 
As at 30 April 2009 
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 415.9 415.9 412.1 3.8 –
Bank and other loans 85.1 85.1 4.9 80.2 –
Note purchase agreements 246.0 230.9 – 95.9 135.0
Finance lease liabilities 6.2 6.2 0.9 2.1 3.2
Bank overdrafts 8.8 8.8 8.8 – –
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 762.0 746.9 426.7 182.0 138.2
The tables above exclude interest expense estimated to be £11.2m in 2010/11, £9.8m in 2011/12, £8.7m in 2012/13, £4.7m in 2013/14, £3.5m 
in 2014/15 and £4.4m in 2015/16 and thereafter (assuming interest rates with respect to variable rate debt remain constant and there is no change  
in the aggregate principal amount of debt other than as a result of repayment at scheduled maturity). 
The above table does not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted as at 30 April 2010. 
Refer to note 29 for an analysis of the Group’s future operating lease payments and to note 30 for a summary of the Group’s commitments.  
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial liabilities. Where the payable and receivable legs  
of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual payments/receipts have been calculated based on exchange rates as at the 
respective year ends. 
Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future contractual 
maturities.  
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 93 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
Contractual payments/(receipts) 
As at 30 April 2010 
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Derivative financial liabilities 
  
Energy derivatives  7.8 7.8 4.2 3.6 –
Interest rate and currency swaps:   
Outflow 21.5 282.8 10.1 213.4 59.3
Inflow (11.3) (284.6) (14.1) (203.1) (67.4)
Foreign exchange:   
Outflow 0.1 52.8 50.8 2.0 –
Inflow (1.6) (54.3) (52.3) (2.0) –
Total net derivative financial liabilities/(assets) (16.5)4.5 (1.3) 13.9(8.1)
 
Contractual payments/(receipts) 
As at 30 April 2009 
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Derivative financial liabilities   
Energy derivatives  (6.7) (6.4) (8.3) 1.9 –
Interest rate and currency swaps:   
Outflow 19.3 315.7 13.8 160.2 141.7
Inflow (11.0) (315.7) (16.8) (152.6) (146.3)
Foreign exchange:   
Outflow 0.6 53.3 50.5 2.8 –
Inflow (3.2) (55.9) (53.1) (2.8) –
Total net derivative financial liabilities/(assets) (1.0) (9.0) (13.9) 9.5 (4.6)
22. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: 
Assets Liabilities Net 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – – (60.5) (70.5) (60.5) (70.5)
Employee benefits including pensions 61.1 55.7 – – 61.1 55.7
Other items 20.3 17.5 – – 20.3 17.5
Tax assets/(liabilities) 81.4 73.2 (60.5) (70.5) 20.9 2.7
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
94 www.dssmith.uk.com 
22. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
Assets Liabilities 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Tax losses 9.9 3.7 – –
Unremitted earnings of overseas operations – – – (5.2)
Total 9.9 3.7 – (5.2)
The tax losses above include £8.7m which do not expire and £1.2m which expire between 2013 and 2015, under current tax legislation. Deferred tax 
assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group 
can utilise the benefits therefrom. Following a change in UK tax legislation during the period which resulted in dividends from overseas subsidiaries  
not being subject to corporation tax, the Group no longer has unrecognised deferred tax liabilities (2009: £5.2m) in respect of temporary differences 
associated with the unremitted earnings of the subsidiaries. Prior to this change in legislation no liabilities had been recognised in respect of these 
differences because the Group was in a position to control the timing of their reversal. 
Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year  
 
Property, plant  
and equipment 
and intangible assets 
Employee benefits  
including pensions Other items Total 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Balance at 1 May (70.5) (66.2) 55.7 23.1 17.5 3.3 2.7 (39.8)
Credit/(charge) for the year 9.9 (0.6) 0.6 (2.3) – (4.2) 10.5 (7.1)
Recognised directly in equity – – 4.8 34.9 2.8 18.4 7.6 53.3
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (3.7) – – – – 0.1 (3.7)
Balance at 30 April (60.5) (70.5) 61.1 55.7 20.3 17.5 20.9 2.7
At 30 April 2010, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: 
• except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill; 
• except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 95 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
23. PROVISIONS 
Employee 
benefits 
£m 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 May 2009 5.8 22.3 8.0 36.1
Provisions made during the year 0.1 4.4 3.2 7.7
Provisions used during the year (0.2) (16.3) (5.2) (21.7)
Provisions reversed during the year (0.1) (0.7) (0.4) (1.2)
Reclassification (0.9) 0.4 0.5 –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.2) 0.1 – (0.1)
Balance at 30 April 2010 4.5 10.2 6.1 20.8
 
Non-current 4.1 2.2 1.6 7.9
Current 0.4 8.0 4.5 12.9
 4.5 10.2 6.1 20.8
The provision for employee benefits mainly represents that for long-service awards. The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the 
closures and restructuring costs described in note 4. Other provisions mainly relate to an acquired onerous service contract and to provisions for vacant 
leaseholds and various legal claims. The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual,  
in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified in the contract. 
24. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Share capital 
Number of shares 
2010 
Millions 
2009 
Millions 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each:     
Authorised  410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 393.4 393.4 39.3 39.3
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the 
Company. In respect of the Company’s shares that are held by the Group (see below), all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.  
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well  
as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.  
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged 
transactions that have not yet occurred.  
Share premium 
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.  
Own shares 
The reserve for the Company’s own shares comprises the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. The Group operates a General Employee 
Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Restricted 
Share Plan (discontinued in 2004) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (discontinued in 2007), Performance Share Plan (PSP), Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
(DSBP), Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan (RDSBP). At 30 April 2010, the Trust held 2.4m shares (2009: 2.4m shares). The market value of the 
shares at 30 April 2010 was £3.2m (2009: £1.9m). Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived. 
Non-controlling interests 
At the beginning of the year, the Group had a liability of £3.5m and a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of the non-
controlling shareholders’ put option in Toscana Ondulati SpA. This amount was calculated with reference to the recent profitability of the company  
using a multiple based formula. The fair value of the put options increased during the year by £0.4m (2009: £0.9m). This charge was recorded  
within finance costs through the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests.  
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
96 www.dssmith.uk.com 
25. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS  
Liability for defined benefit obligations 
The Group operates a funded, defined benefit scheme in the UK, the DS Smith Group Pension scheme (‘the Group scheme’). The Group made agreed 
annual contributions of £15.6m to the Group scheme in 2009/10 (2008/09: £15.6m). The Group operates various local pension arrangements for 
overseas operations and unfunded arrangements for senior executives: these are, in aggregate, not significant to the Group. The following financial 
information includes amounts related to these other arrangements, where appropriate. A charge over certain assets of the Group has been made as 
security for certain of the unfunded arrangements. The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Group scheme was as at 30 April 2007, which will be 
updated to 30 April 2010 by a qualified independent actuary. All UK valuations used the projected unit method. The Group scheme is closed to new 
entrants. Because of this, the average age of the active members is likely to increase at future valuations and this may lead to an increasing current 
service contribution rate; this may be offset by a falling total pensionable salary resulting from leavers and retirements. 
Liability for defined benefit obligations 
Principal actuarial assumptions are as follows: 
2010
%
2009 
% 
2008 
% 
2007
%
2006
%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.6% 6.4% 5.9% 5.4% 5.1%
Inflation 3.5% 3.3% 3.5% 2.9% 2.7%
Future salary increases 4.5% 4.3% 4.5% 3.9% 3.7%
Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 3.5% 3.3% 3.5% 2.9% 2.7%
Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 2.4% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3%
Expected return on plan assets 6.5% 6.7% 6.7% 6.6% 6.6%
The sensitivity of the liabilities and annual service costs in the main UK scheme to the key assumptions above is summarised below: 
 
Increase in 
pension liability 
£m
Increase in 
service costs 
£m
0.5% decrease in discount rate (80.0) (1.6)
0.5% increase in inflation (70.0) (1.0)
1 year increase in life expectancy (20.0) (0.2)
Future mortality is the most significant demographic assumption. The basic mortality table used by the Group at 30 April 2010 is PMA92/PFA92  
(30 April 2009: PMA92/PFA92) with medium cohort mortality improvement. This means the mortality rates assumed for members of a particular age 
differ from those for members who will reach that age in the future. Studies have illustrated that the amount of pension, the location of employees and 
the nature of their work are significant factors affecting mortality. As a result, the basic mortality table rates are based on ages two years older than the 
members’ actual age for non-pensioners and three years older for pensioners. 
The current life expectancies (in years) are: 
2010 2009 
Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65   
Pensioner currently aged 65 19.5 22.4 19.5 22.3
Member currently aged 45 21.3 24.1 21.3 24.1
 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 97 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
25. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of post-retirement benefits and the expected long-term rates of return applied  
to the schemes’ assets in the relevant financial period, are as follows: 
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
 
Expected 
rate of 
return  
% 
Market 
value  
£m 
Expected 
rate of 
return 
%
Market 
value 
£m
Expected 
rate of 
return 
%
Market 
value 
£m
Expected  
rate of  
return  
% 
Market  
value  
£m 
Expected 
rate of 
return 
%
Market 
value 
£m
Equities  7.9% 420.1 7.4% 349.8 7.6% 490.8 7.4% 527.1 7.5% 524.5
Bonds, gilts and cash 
(weighted average) 4.9% 269.0 5.1% 205.5 4.4% 231.0 4.1% 210.8 4.3% 181.6
Total market value of assets  689.1 555.3 721.8 737.9 706.1
Present value of  
schemes’ liabilities  (892.2) (746.6) (797.7) (756.5) (756.4)
Deficit in the schemes  (203.1) (191.3) (75.9) (18.6) (50.3)
Related deferred tax asset  57.0 53.3 21.4 5.6 15.0
Net pension liability  (146.1) (138.0) (54.5) (13.0) (35.3)
Movements in the liability for defined benefit schemes’ obligations recognised in the statement of financial position 
2010
£m
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Schemes’ liabilities at 1 May (746.6) (797.7) (756.5) (756.4) (674.1)
Interest cost (46.7) (46.4) (40.1) (38.1) (35.2)
Service cost recognised in the income statement (8.5) (11.7) (9.8) (10.9) (11.4)
Member contributions (5.6) (6.2) (6.4) (6.9) (6.8)
Curtailments – – – – 3.3
Pension payments 47.4 31.6 28.0 31.3 24.2
Payments to the Pension Protection Fund – 1.5 – 0.1 –
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income (132.3) 84.0 (10.8) 24.2 (56.4)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.5) (1.7) (2.1) 0.2 –
Reclassification to held for sale 0.6 – – – –
Schemes’ liabilities at 30 April (892.2) (746.6) (797.7) (756.5) (756.4)
Movements in the fair value of defined benefit schemes’ assets recognised in the statement of financial position 
2010
£m
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Schemes’ assets at 1 May 555.3 721.8 737.9 706.1 559.3
Employer contributions 17.1 16.9 16.8 17.3 16.8
Member contributions 5.6 6.2 6.4 6.9 6.8
Other contributions – – 0.7 – –
Expected return on schemes’ assets 35.2 47.9 48.9 46.1 36.4
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 122.0 (207.4)  (62.2) (7.2) 110.8
Pension payments (45.7) (31.4) (27.8) (31.2) (24.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.4) 1.3 1.1 (0.1) –
Schemes’ assets at 30 April 689.1 555.3 721.8 737.9 706.1
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
98 www.dssmith.uk.com 
25. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 
Expense recognised in the income statement 
2010
£m
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Current service cost (6.7) (9.7) (8.3) (9.3) (11.1)
Past service cost (0.6) (0.8) (1.1) (1.5) (0.3)
Pension Protection Fund levy (1.2) (1.2) (0.4) (0.1) –
Total service cost (8.5) (11.7) (9.8) (10.9) (11.4)
 
Interest cost on schemes’ liabilities  (46.7) (46.4) (40.1) (38.1) (35.2)
Expected return on schemes’ assets 35.2 47.9 48.9 46.1 36.4
Employment benefit net finance (expense)/income (11.5) 1.5 8.8 8.0 1.2
Analysis of amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
2010
£m
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets  122.0 (207.4) (62.2) (7.2) 110.8
Experience gains/(losses) arising on schemes’ liabilities – – 16.1 10.3 (17.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of schemes’ liabilities (132.3) 84.0 (26.9) 13.9 (38.5)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the statement of  
comprehensive income  (10.3) (123.4) (73.0) 17.0 54.4
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income since the date of transition to IFRS is £166.5m (2009: £156.2m). 
History of experience gains and losses 
2010
£m
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Difference between expected and actual returns on schemes’ assets 122.0 (207.4) (62.2) (7.2) 110.8
Above as a percentage of schemes’ assets 18% (37%) (9%) (1%) 16%
Experience gains/(losses) arising on schemes’ liabilities – – 16.1 10.3 (17.9)
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities – – 2% 1% 2%
Total amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (10.3) (123.4) (73.0) 17.0 54.4
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities (1%) (17%) (9%) 2% 7%
26. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE  
The Group’s share-based payment arrangements are as follows: 
(i) An Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS). This scheme ceased to be operated from September 2008. In normal circumstances, the vesting of any 
options granted under the ESOS is subject to remaining in service and that the growth in the Company’s normalised earnings per share equals or 
exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index plus an average of 3% per annum over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant. 
(ii) A Restricted Share Plan (RSP). This scheme ceased to be operated from September 2004. Under the RSP, participants received an award of shares  
in the Company equal in value to the participant’s annual cash bonus.  In normal circumstances the shares vested on the third anniversary of award 
subject to remaining in service.  
(iii) A Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). This scheme ceased to be operated from September 2008. In normal circumstances LTIP awards vest on the third 
anniversary of grant subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and remaining in service. Performance is measured over a single period of 
three financial years (commencing with the year in which the award is made) and is based on the Company’s total shareholder return performance 
relative to the constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). Full vesting occurs for a ranking of upper quartile or higher 
reducing on a straight-line basis to 30% of the award vesting for median performance. None of the award vests for below median performance.  
No awards will vest, irrespective of total shareholder return performance, unless the Company’s earnings per share growth matches or exceeds the 
growth in the Retail Prices Index over the three-year period. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 99 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
26. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED 
(iv) A Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) is operated for Executive Directors. Shares awarded to Directors under the Plan will vest automatically if the 
Director is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award. 
(v) A Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan (RDSP) was introduced during 2007/08 for Mr S W Dryden. The shares awarded under the Plan replace 
similar deferred share awards granted to Mr Dryden by his previous employer. 
(vi) A Performance Share Plan (PSP). Awards under the PSP normally vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of 
performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant. Awards have been made under the PSP in 2008 
and 2009. The performance conditions are as detailed below (see the Remuneration Report on pages 47 and 48 for a summary of threshold and 
upper targets for the 2008 and 2009 PSP awards): 
• The 2008 award is subject to three equally-weighted performance measures: 
(i) the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the  
FTSE 250; 
(ii) average adjusted earnings per share (EPS); and 
(iii) average adjusted return on average capital employed (ROACE). 
For those senior executives working in one of the four Business Segments, the three measures (equally weighted) are TSR (as above), average 
adjusted operating profit and average adjusted ROACE for the relevant segment. 
• The 2009 award is subject to two performance measures: 
(i) 80% of each award based on a TSR component as per above; and 
(ii) 20% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE. 
For those senior executives working in one of the four Business Segments, the two measures are TSR and ROACE for the relevant segment. 
The total number of options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements as at 30 April 2010 was as follows: 
Options outstanding Options exercisable 
Number
of shares
Option price
range (p)
Weighted  
average 
remaining 
contract life 
(years) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Number
exercisable
Weighted
average
exercise
price (p)
Executive Share Option Scheme (1992)  Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Executive Share Option Scheme (1999)  5,187,594 135.2–243.8 4.6 161.6 4,477,594 148.5
Restricted Share Plan Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Long-Term Incentive Plan 690,800 Nil 0.2 Nil Nil Nil
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 222,595 Nil 0.9 Nil Nil Nil
Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan 74,674 Nil 0.8 Nil Nil Nil
Performance Share Plan 9,939,030 Nil 1.9 Nil Nil Nil
The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8. 
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 
 
Executive Share Option 
Scheme (1992) 
Executive Share Option 
Scheme (1999) Restricted Share Plan Long-Term Incentive Plan 
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2009 166.6 53 162.4 5,541 Nil 29 Nil 1,943
Granted Nil–Nil–Nil – Nil–
Exercised Nil–Nil–Nil (29) Nil–
Lapsed 166.6(53)175.1(353)Nil – Nil(1,252)
Balance at 30 April 2010 Nil Nil 161.6 5,188 Nil Nil Nil 691
Exercisable at 30 April 2010 Nil Nil 148.5 4,478 Nil Nil Nil Nil
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
100 www.dssmith.uk.com 
26. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED 
 
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 
Replacement Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan 
Performance 
Share Plan 
2010 continued 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2009 Nil 222 Nil 113 Nil 4,090
Granted Nil – Nil – Nil 6,247
Exercised Nil – Nil (38) Nil –
Lapsed Nil – Nil – Nil (398)
Balance at 30 April 2010 Nil 222 Nil 75 Nil 9,939
Exercisable at 30 April 2010 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
 
 
Executive Share Option 
Scheme (1992) 
Executive Share Option 
Scheme (1999) Restricted Share Plan Long-Term Incentive Plan 
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2008 172.0 218 161.7 6,790 Nil 54 Nil 3,588
Granted Nil–Nil–Nil – Nil–
Exercised Nil–Nil–Nil (25) Nil(56)
Lapsed 173.7(165.4)158.2(1,249)Nil – Nil(1,589)
Balance at 30 April 2009 166.6 53 162.4 5,541 Nil 29 Nil 1,943
Exercisable at 30 April 2009 166.6 53 148.5 3,568 Nil 29 Nil Nil
 
 
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 
Replacement Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 
Performance 
Share Plan 
2009 continued 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s)
Balance at 1 May 2008 Nil 69 Nil 143 Nil –
Granted Nil 153 Nil – Nil 4,090
Exercised Nil – Nil (30) Nil –
Lapsed Nil – Nil – Nil –
Balance at 30 April 2009 Nil 222 Nil 113 Nil 4,090
Exercisable at 30 April 2009 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 104.8 pence (2008/09: 93.7 pence). 
The total expense recognised as employee costs is as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2004/05 – (0.1)
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2005/06 – 0.2
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2006/07 – (0.4)
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2007/08 0.1 0.2
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2008/09 0.5 0.4
Share-based incentive awards granted in 2009/10 0.8 –
Total expense recognised as employee costs 1.4 0.3
The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP schemes.  
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 101 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
26. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED 
The fair value of the PSP award granted during the period determined using the stochastic valuation model, was £2.9m. The significant inputs into the 
model were: a share price of £0.7 for the PSP at the grant date; the exercise prices shown above; an expected volatility of the share price of 54.1%;  
the scheme life disclosed above; an annual risk-free interest rate of 2.4% and an expected dividend yield of nil%. The volatility of share price returns 
measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices over a period of  
three years. 
The fair value of the PSP award granted in 2008 using the stochastic valuation model was £2.2m. The significant inputs into the model were: a share 
price of £1.24 for the PSP at the grant date; the exercise price shown above, an expected volatility of the share price of 37.5%; the scheme life 
disclosed above; an annual risk-free interest rate of 4.2%; and an expected dividend yield of nil%. The volatility of share price returns measured as  
the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on a statistical analysis of average weekly share prices over a period of three years. 
There were no grants for the LTIP or ESOS during the period as these plans ceased to be operated during the 2008/09 period.  
The fair value of options granted during the 2008 period, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was £2.0m. The significant inputs into the 
model were: a share price of £2.37 for LTIP, and £2.44 for ESOS; the exercise prices shown above; a standard deviation of expected share price 
returns of 24.1% for LTIP and 26.6% for ESOS; the options life disclosed above; an annual risk-free interest rate of 5.5% for LTIP and 5.4% for ESOS; 
and an expected dividend yield of 3.6% for LTIP and 3.5% for ESOS. The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of 
expected share price returns was based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period of three to six years. 
27. CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 
2010 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
2009
£m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year  38.1 (11.2)
Adjustments for:   
Exceptional items charged to income statement 13.3  55.7
Cash outflow for exceptional items (18.4)  (17.2)
Depreciation and amortisation 72.0  69.9
Profit on sale of non-current assets (1.0)  (1.7)
Share of profit of associates before exceptional loss of £nil (2008/09: loss £5.1m) (0.2)  (0.6)
Employment benefit net finance expense/(income) 11.5  (1.5)
Share-based payment expense 1.4  0.3
Finance income (1.5)  (2.5)
Finance costs 15.9  26.1
Other non-cash items 0.6  –
Income tax expense 16.9  28.0
  110.5 156.5
Changes in   
Inventories (8.0)  25.5
Trade and other receivables (36.3)  70.8
Trade and other payables 41.9  (65.5)
Provisions and employee benefits (10.7)  (9.7)
  (13.1) 21.1
Cash generated from operations  135.5 166.4
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
102 www.dssmith.uk.com 
28. RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Operating profit before exceptional items 94.0 94.0
Depreciation and amortisation 72.0 69.9
Adjusted EBITDA 166.0 163.9
Working capital movement (2.4) 30.8
Other (9.7) (11.1)
Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 153.9 183.6
Capital expenditure payments (52.6) (87.4)
Proceeds from sales of assets and investments 13.0 7.7
Tax paid (21.3) (21.0)
Net interest paid (16.2) (23.0)
Free cash flow 76.8 59.9
Exceptional cash costs (18.4) (17.2)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders (12.9) (34.4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – (1.9)
Net acquisitions of equity in subsidiaries (1.0) (1.2)
Net cash flow 44.5 5.2
Purchase of own shares – (0.2)
Net debt acquired (0.9) (0.2)
Foreign exchange and fair value movements (note 18) 8.4 (44.5)
Net debt movement 52.0 (39.7)
Opening net debt (291.5) (251.8)
Closing net debt (239.5) (291.5)
Free cash flow excludes net acquisitions/(disposals) of equity in subsidiaries, exceptional cash costs and dividends. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 103 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
29. OPERATING LEASES 
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Less than one year 24.3 21.0
Between one and five years 55.5 58.9
More than five years 31.3 35.7
 111.1 115.6
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment. 
As at 30 April 2010, the Group’s future minimum sub-lease receipts totalled £1.1m (2009: £1.1m), of which: £0.2m (2009: £0.2m) falls within  
one year; £0.9m (2009: £0.9m) between one and five years; and £nil (2009: £nil) after five years. 
30. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS  
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of £5.3m (2009: £2.9m). 
31. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 
2009/10 
Wirth 
On 17 February 2010, the Group obtained control of Winfried Wirth GmbH, a corrugated packaging business in Germany. As a result, the Group’s 
equity interest in Wirth increased from 25% to 55%.  
Demes Logistics 
On 6 January 2010, the assets of Demes Logistics GmbH & Co KG, a plastic packaging business in Germany, were sold. 
Vale Paper Limited 
Deferred consideration of £0.2m was paid in 2010 to Vale Paper Limited in full settlement of the further consideration due. 
2008/09 
Vale Paper Limited 
On 2 September 2008, the Group acquired the assets of Vale Paper Limited, a waste paper collection business in the UK, for a consideration of £1.2m. 
A further deferred consideration of £0.5m was due 18 months after the acquisition subject to certain performance measures being achieved.  
32. RELATED PARTIES 
Identity of related parties 
In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries (see note 33) and associates (see 
note 12). The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors. The compensation 
of key management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 46 to 55 of the Annual Report. Certain key management  
also participate in the Group’s share option programme (refer to note 26). Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of £0.4m 
(2009: £0.2m) relating to key management. 
Other related party transactions 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Purchases from associates and joint ventures 0.4 0.4
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
104 www.dssmith.uk.com 
33. DS SMITH GROUP COMPANIES 
Control of the Group 
The Group’s ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc. 
List of key consolidated companies 
 
Country of 
incorporation 
or registration
Ownership 
interest 2010
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 
St Regis Paper Company Limited England 100%*
A. A. Griggs and Company Limited England 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Limited England 100%*
Continental European Corrugated Packaging 
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Polska S.A. Poland 100%*
Toscana Ondulati SpA Italy 92%*
DS Smith Çopikas AS Turkey 100%*
Plastic Packaging 
DS Smith Plastics Limited England 100%*
Cartón Plástico s.a. Spain 100%*
DW Plastics NV Belgium 100%*
Ducaplast S.A.S. France 100%*
David S. Smith America Inc. USA 100%*
DSS Rapak Inc. USA 100%*
StePac L.A. Limited Israel 90%*
Rapak GmbH & Co KG Systemverpackungen Germany 100%*
Rapak Asia Pacific Limited  New Zealand 100%*
Office Products Wholesaling 
Spicers Limited England 100%*
Spicers (Ireland) Limited Ireland 100%*
Spicers France SAS France 100%*
Spicers NV Belgium 100%*
* indirectly held by DS Smith Plc 
A complete list of the Group’s companies is available from the registered office. 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 105 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW NOTICE OF MEETING
34. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
Copikas disposal 
The sale of DS Smith Copikas AS, a corrugated packaging business in Turkey within the Continental European Corrugated Packaging segment, was 
agreed on 28 May 2010 with Olmuksa International Paper-Sabanci Ambalaj Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S.. The sale is for a cash consideration of £4.7m 
(payable on completion) and is subject to the Turkish Competition Board approval that is anticipated will take around six weeks.  
35. INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES 
Rapak AD is proportionately consolidated within these financial statements. The Group share of the summarised financial information is presented  
as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Total non-current assets 0.6 0.7
Total current assets 0.8 0.4
Total non-current liabilities (0.6) (0.6)
Total current liabilities (0.2) (0.2)
Share of Rapak AD’s net assets, proportionately consolidated 0.6 0.3
Revenue 1.3 0.9
Cost of sales (0.8) (0.6)
Operating expenses (0.3) (0.2)
Share of Rapak AD’s profit for the financial year 0.2 0.1
 
 Nature of business
Principal country 
of operation Financial year end Ownership 2010
Rapak AD Plastic packaging Bulgaria 31 December 50.0%
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance 
with UK GAAP 
As at 30 April 2010 
106 www.dssmith.uk.com 
 Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets  4 2.4 1.5
Investments 5 357.0 357.0
  359.4 358.5
Current assets  
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 6 12.9 21.0
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 1,089.4 1,092.5
Cash at bank and in hand  0.8 1.7
  1,103.1 1,115.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
Trade and other creditors 7 (55.8) (44.9)
Borrowings 7 (17.7) (47.1)
Net current assets  1,029.6 1,023.2
Total assets less current liabilities  1,389.0 1,381.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year  
Trade and other creditors 7 (25.2) (24.3)
Borrowings 7 (804.7) (823.6)
Provisions for liabilities 8 (4.2) (2.7)
Net assets excluding pension liability  554.9 531.1
Net pension liability 2 (142.8) (134.4)
Net assets including pension liability  412.1 396.7
 
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital  9 39.3 39.3
Share premium account 10 263.1 263.1
Profit and loss account 10 109.7 94.3
Shareholders’ funds  412.1 396.7
Approved by the Board on 23 June 2010 and signed on its behalf by  
M W Roberts, Director S W Dryden, Director 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Notes to the Company Balance Sheet Prepared  
in Accordance with UK GAAP 
 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 107 
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
A summary of the significant accounting policies, which have been 
applied consistently, is set out below:  
(a) Accounting basis  
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards.  
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt 
from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.  
As the results of the Company are being presented together with its 
consolidated financial statements (refer to pages 60 to 105), the 
Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 
‘Related Party Disclosures’, and has therefore not disclosed transactions  
or balances with entities which form part of the Group (or investees of  
the Group qualifying as related parties).  
Under FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’, the Company is exempt from the 
requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the 
parent undertaking includes the Company in its own consolidated 
financial statements. 
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 
‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, not to present Company only 
information as the disclosures provided in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements comply with the requirements of this standard. 
(b) Income recognition 
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised in the profit 
and loss account when declared by the subsidiary undertaking. 
(c) Tangible fixed assets  
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation less the 
estimated residual value of all tangible fixed assets in equal annual 
instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates:  
Plant and equipment  3 – 5 years
Leasehold improvements  over the period of the lease
Land is not depreciated  
(d) Fixed asset investments  
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less provisions for impairment. 
(e) Deferred taxation  
In accordance with FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’, is provided in full on timing 
differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay 
more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to 
apply when they crystallise, provided at current tax rates and based on 
current legislation. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of 
income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from 
those in which they are included in the financial statements.  
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as 
more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are not discounted.  
(f) Foreign currencies  
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the financial year end. 
Exchange differences arising on translation are taken to the profit and  
loss account. 
(g) Pension contributions  
The amounts charged to operating profit in respect of defined benefit 
arrangements are the current service costs and gains and losses on 
settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs.  
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss 
account if the benefits have vested. If the benefits have not vested 
immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting  
occurs. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the 
statement of total recognised gains and losses. 
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are 
measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and 
discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high 
quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and duration to the scheme 
liabilities. The resulting defined benefit net asset or liability, net of the 
related deferred tax, is presented. 
(h) Financial instruments  
Financial instruments are reported in accordance with FRS 26 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, 
currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and 
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities 
and the financing of these activities. The Group has a policy not to, and 
does not undertake any speculative activity in these instruments.  
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on 
the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value 
is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.  
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when 
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the 
financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk.  
Any gains or losses arising from the hedging instruments are offset against 
the hedged items.  
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:  
• fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair 
value of a recognised asset or liability; and 
• cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. 
(i) Share options  
The Company operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant 
of the options is recognised as an expense. The fair value of the options 
granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The total 
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-
market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are included in 
assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become 
exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates  
of the numbers of options that are expected to become exercisable.  
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any,  
in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
The proceeds received as a result of such options being exercised, net of 
any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital 
(nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. 
Where applicable, the fair value of employee services received by subsidiary 
undertakings within the DS Smith Plc Group in exchange for options granted 
by the Company is recognised as an expense in the financial statements of the 
subsidiary by means of a recharge from the Company. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP continued 
 
108 www.dssmith.uk.com 
2. PENSIONS 
Details of the assumptions used in the calculation of the underlying assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements 
on page 96.  
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Market value of schemes’ assets 677.6 544.7
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (875.9) (731.3)
Deficit in the schemes (198.3) (186.6)
Related deferred tax asset 55.5 52.2
Net pension liability (142.8) (134.4)
The movement in the deficit during the year is as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening deficit (186.6) (72.1)
Service cost (7.0) (9.3)
Pension Protection Fund Levy (1.1) (1.2)
Contributions 15.9 15.6
Payments to Pension Protection Fund  1.1 1.5
Other finance income (11.2) 1.6
Actuarial  losses (11.0) (122.9)
Net payments 1.6 0.2
Closing deficit (198.3) (186.6)
Information on other aspects of the Company’s defined benefit arrangements is materially the same as set out in note 25 to the consolidated  
financial statements. 
3. EMPLOYEE INFORMATION 
The average number of employees employed by the Company during the year was 39 (2008/09: 31). 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 6.9 3.9
Social security costs 1.3 0.2
Pension costs 0.5 0.4
Total 8.7 4.5
Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the disclosure information required for the Company’s share-based payments.   
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 109 
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING
4. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
Balance at 1 May 2009 1.4 3.3 4.7
Additions – 1.2 1.2
Disposals – (3.0) (3.0)
Balance at 30 April 2010 1.4 1.5 2.9
 
Depreciation   
Balance at 1 May 2009 – (3.2) (3.2)
Depreciation charge for the year – (0.3) (0.3)
Disposals  – 3.0 3.0
Balance at 30 April 2010 – (0.5) (0.5)
 
Carrying amount  
Balance as at 1 May 2009 1.4 0.1 1.5
Balance as at 30 April 2010 1.4 1.0 2.4
5. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS 
Shares in Group 
undertakings 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 May 2009  357.0 – 357.0
 
Balance at 30 April 2010 357.0 –357.0
The Company’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings at 30 April 2010 are shown in note 33 of the consolidated financial statements. 
6. DEBTORS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Amounts falling due within one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 0.7 0.1
Corporation tax 8.2 11.3
Other debtors includes other tax 1.3 0.9
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 0.2
Derivative financial instruments 2.6 8.5
 12.9 21.0
 
Amounts falling due after more than one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,071.8 1,078.8
Other debtors 0.8 –
Deferred tax asset 5.5 –
Derivative financial instruments 11.3 13.7
 1,089.4 1,092.5
Total debtors 1,102.3 1,113.5
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet Prepared in Accordance with UK GAAP continued 
 
110 www.dssmith.uk.com 
7. CREDITORS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade and other creditors falling due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 34.4 31.9
Other tax and social security payables 4.0 3.1
Accruals and deferred income 10.6 9.7
Derivative financial instruments 6.8 0.2
 55.8 44.9
 
Trade and other creditors falling due after more than one year 
Deferred tax liability – 0.6
Derivative financial instruments 25.2 23.7
 25.2 24.3
 
Borrowings falling due within one year 
Bank loans and overdrafts 17.7 47.1
 17.7 47.1
 
Borrowings falling due after more than one year (see note 20 of the consolidated financial statements for further details) 
Bank loans  11.5 77.5
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 555.3 500.1
Other loans 237.9 246.0
 804.7 823.6
Total creditors 903.4 939.9
8. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES 
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 May 2009  1.9 0.8 2.7
Charged to the profit and loss account 1.1 1.6 2.7
Provisions used during the year (1.1) (0.1) (1.2)
Balance at 30 April 2010 1.9 2.3 4.2
 
    
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 111 
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING
9. SHARE CAPITAL 
Number of shares 
2010 
Millions 
2009 
Millions 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each     
Authorised 410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 393.4 393.4 39.3 39.3
10. RESERVES 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Profit and loss account 
Own  
shares 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 May 2009 263.1 (4.2) 1.1 97.4 94.3
Retained profit for the financial year – – – 30.7 30.7
Actuarial losses on pension schemes – – – (11.0) (11.0)
Tax on actuarial losses on pension schemes – – – 3.2 3.2
Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges (including tax) – – (10.4) – (10.4)
Share-based payments (after tax) – – – 2.9 2.9
At 30 April 2010 263.1 (4.2) (9.3) 123.2 109.7
The Company made a profit for the financial year of £43.6m (2008/09: loss of £44.4m) including the recognition of intra-group dividends. 
11. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
The Company has guaranteed the gross overdrafts and loans of certain subsidiary undertakings, which at 30 April 2010 amounted to £42.2m  
(2008/09: £64.5m).   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Five-Year Financial Summary 
 
112 www.dssmith.uk.com 
Year ended
30 April
2006
£m
Year ended 
30 April 
2007 
£m 
Year ended 
30 April 
2008 
£m 
Year ended
30 April
2009
£m
Year ended
30 April
2010
£m
Revenue   
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 649.6 687.1 753.2 785.8 750.2
Continental European Corrugated Packaging  276.6 308.0 346.0 363.4 355.4
Plastic Packaging 202.4 201.8 223.4 236.9 231.3
Office Products Wholesaling 518.7 569.2 644.9 720.5 733.7
Office Products Manufacturing
3
 5.4 – – – –
Group revenue 1,652.7 1,766.1 1,967.5 2,106.6 2,070.6
 
Operating profit
1
   
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging 20.5 36.5 68.5 36.5 35.4
Continental European Corrugated Packaging  20.1 18.2 20.3 30.4 22.9
Plastic Packaging 7.2 10.2 10.7 7.0 15.5
Office Products Wholesaling 12.6 12.8 20.1 20.1 20.2
Office Products Manufacturing
3
 –– – – –
Group operating profit
1
 60.4 77.7 119.6 94.0 94.0
 
Share of profit of associates
1
 4.1 3.9 3.4 0.6 0.2
Net finance cost (12.3) (15.0) (20.8) (23.6) (14.4)
Employee benefit net finance income 1.2 8.0 8.8 1.5 (11.5)
Profit before taxation and exceptional items 53.4 74.6 111.0 72.5 68.3
Exceptional items (42.4) 3.9 (1.9) (55.7) (13.3)
Profit before income tax 11.0 78.5 109.1 16.8 55.0
Free cash flow
1
 67.8 91.9 84.8 59.9 76.8
Capital expenditure
4
 62.7 66.0 68.6 83.2 41.2
Depreciation and amortisation 67.2 62.9 62.0 69.9 72.0
Average capital employed
2
  930.0 895.0 925.7 1,009.5 973.6
Shareholders’ funds 541.5 567.1 601.9 456.4 473.2
Net debt 237.8 181.2 251.8 291.5 239.5
Adjusted return on sales
1
 3.7% 4.4% 6.1% 4.5% 4.5%
Adjusted return on average capital employed
1
 6.5%8.7% 12.9% 9.3% 9.7%
Gearing
5
 43.9% 32.0% 41.8% 63.9% 50.6%
Adjusted earnings per share
1
  10.0p 13.1p 19.9p 12.6p 12.9p 
Dividends per share 8.4p 8.6p 8.8p 4.4p 4.6p 
Adjusted dividend cover
1
 1.2x 1.5x 2.3x 2.9x 2.8x 
Net assets per share 138.5p 144.9p 153.9p  116.7p 121.0p 
1 before exceptional items 
2 average capital employed is defined in note 2 on page 72 
3 the Office Products Manufacturing business was sold in July 2005 
4 capital expenditure represents additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
5 gearing is defined in note 18 on page 83  NOTICE OF MEETING 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 113 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc 
will be held at the Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel, Liverpool Street, 
London EC2M 7QN, on Tuesday 7 September 2010 at 12 noon to 
consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which 
Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and 
Resolutions 12 to 15 will be proposed as special resolutions. 
1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Report, the Auditors’ Report and 
financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010. 
2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares. 
3 To approve the Report on Remuneration. 
4 To elect Mr J C Nicholls as a Director of the Company. 
5 To elect Mr M W Roberts as a Director of the Company. 
6 To elect Mr G Davis as a Director of the Company. 
7 To re-elect Mr C J Bunker as a Director of the Company. 
8 To re-elect Mr P J-C Mellier as a Director of the Company.  
9 To re-elect Mr R G Beeston as a Director of the Company. 
10 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office 
until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts  
are to be laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to 
determine the remuneration of the auditors. 
11 That: 
(a) the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, in 
accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006,  
to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the 
Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security 
into, shares in the Company: 
(i) up to a maximum nominal amount of £13,111,863.10 (such 
amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity 
securities (as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 
2006) allotted under paragraph (ii) below in excess of 
£13,111,863.10); and 
(ii) comprising equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the 
Companies Act 2006) up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£26,223,726.20 (such amount to be reduced by any shares 
allotted or rights granted under paragraph (i) above) in 
connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: 
(A) to holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and 
(B) to holders of other equity securities if this is required by 
the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it 
necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities; 
and so that the Directors may make such exclusions or other 
arrangements as they consider expedient in relation to 
treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, shares 
represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical 
problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements 
of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any 
other matter; 
(b) this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next  
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing  
of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on  
1 November 2011; 
(c) the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or 
rights to be granted after it expires and the Directors may allot 
shares or grant rights in pursuance of such offer or agreement  
as if this authority had not expired; and 
(d) all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the 
Companies Act 1985 and section 551 of the Companies Act 
2006 shall cease to have effect (save to the extent that the same 
are exercisable pursuant to section 551(7) of the Companies Act 
2006 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the  
date of this resolution which would or might require shares to  
be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date). 
12 That: 
(a) the Directors be given power: 
(i) (subject to the passing of resolution 11) to allot equity 
securities (as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 
2006) for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them  
by that resolution under section 551 of that Act; and 
(ii) to allot equity securities as defined in section 560(3) of that 
Act (sale of treasury shares) for cash, in either case as if 
section 561 of that Act did not apply to the allotment but this 
power shall be limited: 
(A) to the allotment of equity securities in connection with 
an offer or issue of equity securities (but in the case of 
the authority granted under resolution 11 (a)(ii), by way 
of a rights issue only) to or in favour of: 
I. holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly 
as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; 
and 
II. holders of other equity securities if this is required 
by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors 
consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of 
those securities; 
and so that the Directors may make such exclusions  
or other arrangements as they consider expedient  
in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 
record dates, shares represented by depositary 
receipts, legal or practical problems under the laws  
in any territory or the requirements of any relevant 
regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter; 
and 
(B) to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the 
authority granted under resolution 11 (a)(i) and/or by 
virtue of section 560(3) of the Companies Act 2006 (in 
each case otherwise than under paragraph (A) above) 
up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,966,779.46;  
   NOTICE OF MEETING 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 continued 
 
114 www.dssmith.uk.com 
(b) this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 
General Meeting of the Company after the passing of  
this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on  
1 November 2011;  
(c) all previous unutilised authorities under section 95 of the 
Companies Act 1985 and sections 570 and 573 of the 
Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect; and 
(d) the Company may, before this power expires, make an offer  
or agreement which would or might require equity securities  
to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot equity 
securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this  
power had not expired. 
13 That in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company is 
generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases 
(within the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006) of 
ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company in 
such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time to time 
determine provided that: 
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be 
purchased is 39,335,589; 
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 
10 pence (exclusive of expenses payable by the Company); 
(c) the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share  
is an amount equal to the higher of 105% of the average of the 
middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from 
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 
days immediately preceding the date of any such purchase  
and the amount stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and 
Stabilisation Regulation 2003 (in each case exclusive of expenses 
payable by the Company);  
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, 
revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, 1 November 
2011, save that the Company shall be entitled under such 
authority to make at any time before the expiry thereof any 
contract or contracts to purchase its ordinary shares which will  
or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such 
authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in 
pursuance of any such contract; and 
(e) all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases 
of ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase 
of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date 
of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed. 
14 That, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, a 
general meeting (other than an Annual General Meeting) may be 
called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice. 
15 That, with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting:  
(a) the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by 
deleting all the provisions of the Company’s Memorandum of 
Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 
2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Company’s Articles 
of Association; and  
(b) the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled 
by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification 
be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in 
substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles  
of association. 
By Order of the Board 
CAROLYN CATTERMOLE 
Company Secretary 
Beech House 
Whitebrook Park 
68 Lower Cookham Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8XY 
15 July 2010 
 
   
 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 115 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES 
(i) Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the 
Company as at 6pm on 5 September 2010 shall be entitled to 
attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares 
registered in their names at that time. 
(ii) Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of 
their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the 
Meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in  
relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy  
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or 
shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder 
of the Company. 
(iii) A proxy may be appointed by any of the following methods: 
• completing and returning the enclosed Form of Proxy; or 
• by logging onto the Registrars’ website www.sharevote.co.uk 
using the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference 
Number printed on the Form of Proxy enclosed. Shareholders 
who have already registered with the Registrars’ online 
portfolio service Shareview can submit a proxy by logging  
into their profile at www.shareview.co.uk and clicking on the 
link to vote under “Your DS Smith Plc holding details”; or 
• members of CREST should use the CREST electronic 
appointment service (see (vii) below). 
If two or more valid but differing appointments of a proxy are 
received in respect of the same share for use at the same meeting, 
the one which is last received (regardless of its date or the date of its 
signature) shall be treated as replacing and revoking the others as 
regards that share; if the Company is unable to determine which was 
received last, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that 
share. To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the Registrars at 
the address shown on the Form not later than 48 hours before the 
time of the Meeting. Completion and return of the Form will not, 
however, prevent a Member from attending and voting at the 
Meeting. A Member must inform the Registrars in writing of any 
termination of the authority of a proxy. 
(iv) Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between 
them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a 
right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a 
proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has 
no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they 
may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to 
the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights. 
(v) The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment 
of proxies in Notes (ii) and (iii) above does not apply to Nominated 
Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be 
exercised by shareholders of the Company. 
(vi) Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the 
registered holder of their shares (and not the Company) on matters 
relating to their investments in the Company. 
(vii) CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through  
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the 
Meeting to be held on 7 September 2010 and any adjournment(s) 
thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. 
CREST personal Members or other CREST sponsored Members,  
and those CREST Members who have appointed a voting service 
provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on  
their behalf.  
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message  
(a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in 
accordance with Euroclear’s specifications and must contain the 
information required for such instructions, as described in the  
CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes  
the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction  
given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid,  
be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA19) 
by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in (iii) 
above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the 
time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the 
CREST Applications Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to 
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed 
by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies 
appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee 
through other means.  
CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 
voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make 
available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. 
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation 
to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the 
CREST Member concerned to take (or, if the CREST Member is a 
CREST personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed  
a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or 
voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to 
ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system 
by any particular time. In this connection, CREST Members and, 
where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers 
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual 
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.  
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001. The CREST Manual can be reviewed  
at www.euroclear.com/CREST. 
(viii) As at 23 June 2010 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
publication of this document), the Company’s issued share capital 
consists of 393,355,893 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each. 
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 June 2010 
are 393,355,893. 
(ix) A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise  
a person or persons to act as its representative(s) at the Annual 
General Meeting. In accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006 (as amended by the Companies (Shareholders’ 
Rights) Regulations 2009), each such representative may exercise 
(on behalf of the corporation) the same powers as the corporation 
could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, 
provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.  
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated 
corporate representative. 
(x) Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the 
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require 
the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any 
matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including 
the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be  
laid before the Annual General Meeting; or (ii) any circumstance 
connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office 
since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports 
were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 
2006. The Company may not require the shareholders requesting 
any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with  
   NOTICE OF MEETING 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 continued 
116 www.dssmith.uk.com 
 sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. Where the 
Company is required to place a statement on a website under  
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the 
statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it 
makes the statement available on the website. The business which 
may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any 
statement that the Company has been required under section 527  
of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.  
 (xi) Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask questions. 
The Company must cause to be answered any such question  
relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting but no such 
answer need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the Meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 
information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in 
the form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the 
interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the 
question be answered.  
(xii) A copy of this Notice, and other information required by  
section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in the  
Annual Report section of the Investors page on our website 
www.dssmith.uk.com.  
(xiii) Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, 
Members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have 
the right to require the Company (i) to give, to Members of the 
Company entitled to receive Notice of the Meeting, notice of a 
resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be 
moved at the Meeting and/or (ii) to include in the business to  
be dealt with at the Meeting any matter (other than a proposed 
resolution) which may be properly included in the business.  
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be 
included in the business unless (a) (in the case of a resolution only) it 
would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of inconsistency 
with any enactment or the Company’s constitution or otherwise),  
(b) it is defamatory of any person, or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious. 
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must 
identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to 
be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or 
persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 
26 July 2010, being the date six clear weeks before the Meeting, 
and (in the case of a matter to be included in the business only)  
must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for  
the request.  
(xiv) Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection  
at the Company’s Registered Office and at the offices of Allen & 
Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD during normal 
business hours and at the place of the Meeting from 11.45am until 
its conclusion: 
(a) service contracts of the Executive Directors;  
(b) letters of appointment of the Chairman and the non-Executive 
Directors; 
(c) the current Memorandum and Articles of Association marked  
to show the proposed changes; and 
(d) the proposed new Articles of Association. 
(xv) The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees will be available to answer relevant questions at  
the Meeting. 
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON THE RESOLUTIONS 
Resolution 1: 
Report and financial statements 
The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the 
Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended 30 April 2010. These are contained in the 
Annual Report. 
Resolution 2: 
Declaration of a final dividend 
Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount 
recommended by the Directors. By passing Resolution 2, shareholders will 
declare a final dividend. The amount of the final dividend recommended 
by the Directors is 3.1 pence net per ordinary share. 
Resolution 3: 
Approval of Report on Remuneration 
As required by section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder 
approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out on pages 46  
to 55. 
Resolutions 4-9: 
Election and Re-election of Directors 
The Articles of Association of the Company require that a Director 
appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting shall be subject  
to election by the shareholders. Mr Nicholls was appointed as a Director 
with effect from 1 December 2009 and, in accordance with the Articles, 
he retires from office at the Meeting. He is a member of the Nomination 
and Audit Committees and, from the end of June 2010, Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Mr Roberts was appointed a Director with effect from  
4 May 2010 and, in accordance with the Articles, he retires from office 
at the Meeting. He is a member of the Nomination and General Purposes 
Committees. Mr Davis was appointed as a Director with effect from  
1 June 2010 and, in accordance with the Articles, he retires from  
office at the Meeting. He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees and, from the end of June 2010, Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee. Being eligible they offer themselves  
for election. 
The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors  
retire from office at least once every three years but are eligible to submit 
themselves for re-election by shareholders. The Directors who retire at 
each Annual General Meeting are those who would otherwise have 
served for over three years without re-election by the date of the following 
Annual General Meeting. 
Mr Bunker will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at 
this year’s Annual General Meeting. Mr Bunker is the Senior Independent 
Director, and a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. Mr Mellier will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for  
re-election at this year’s Annual General Meeting. Mr Mellier is a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
As required by the Combined Code any non-Executive Director who  
has been in post for nine years or more, or who is non-independent for 
any reason, is subject to annual re-election. Mr Beeston has served for 
more than nine years, will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for  
re-election at this year’s Annual General Meeting. As mentioned in the 
Chairman’s Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston will be retiring from the 
Board at the end of 2010. 
A biography of each Director, including those seeking election or  
re-election, appears on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report. 
    
 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 117 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Resolution 10: 
Re-appointment of Auditors and Auditors’ remuneration  
The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general  
meeting at which accounts are presented. Resolution 10 proposes the  
re-appointment of the Company’s existing auditors, Deloitte LLP, until the 
next Annual General Meeting and also gives authority to the Directors to 
determine the auditors’ remuneration. 
Resolution 11: 
Authority to allot shares 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 September 2009, shareholders 
authorised the Directors, under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985,  
to allot relevant securities without the prior consent of shareholders for a 
period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be 
held in 2010 or, if earlier, on 1 November 2010. It is proposed to renew 
this authority and to authorise the Directors under section 551 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe 
for or convert any security into shares in the Company for a period 
expiring no later than 1 November 2011. 
Paragraph (a)(i) of Resolution 11 will allow the Directors to allot  
ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of £13,111,863.10 
representing approximately one third (33.33%) of the Company’s existing 
issued share capital and calculated as at 23 June 2010 (being the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this circular). In accordance with 
the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British 
Insurers, paragraph (a)(ii) of Resolution 11 will allow Directors to allot, 
including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of Resolution 
11, further of the Company’s ordinary shares in connection with a  
pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders  
up to a maximum nominal amount of £26,223,726.20, representing 
approximately two thirds (66.67%) of the Company’s existing issued 
share capital and calculated as at 23 June 2010 (being the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this circular). The Directors have 
no present intention of exercising this authority. However, if they do 
exercise the authority, the Directors intend to follow emerging best 
practice as regards its use (including as regards the Directors standing  
for re-election in certain cases), as recommended by the Association of 
British Insurers. 
Resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew this 
authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or,  
if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2011. 
Resolution 12 
Directors’ powers to disapply pre-emption rights 
Also at last year’s meeting, a special resolution was passed, under  
section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, empowering the Directors to  
allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such 
shares to existing shareholders. It is proposed that this authority also be 
renewed under section 560 of the Companies Act 2006. If approved,  
the Resolution will authorise the Directors to issue shares in connection 
with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a 
maximum nominal amount of £1,966,779.46 which includes the sale on 
a non pre-emptive basis of any shares the Company may hold in treasury 
for cash. The maximum nominal amount of equity securities to which this 
authority relates represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital 
of the Company as at 23 June 2010 (being the latest practicable date 
prior to publication of this circular). 
The Directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share 
capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling 
three year period without prior consultation with the shareholders and  
the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the 
National Association of Pension Funds. 
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this 
authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or,  
if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2011. 
Resolution 13 
Company’s authority to purchase shares  
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to 
renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares 
in the market. This authority gives the Company greater flexibility in 
managing its capital resources. The Directors have no specific intention  
of using this authority and would do so only when, in the light of market 
conditions, they believed that the effect of such purchases would be  
to increase earnings per share, and that the purchases were in the 
interests of shareholders generally. The Directors would also give careful 
consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial 
position. The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits. 
Resolution 13 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be 
purchased (representing approximately 10% of the Company’s issued 
share capital at 23 June 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to 
publication of this document), the minimum and maximum prices at which 
they may be bought and when the authority will expire, reflecting the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the FSA. 
The minimum price at which the shares may be purchased is their nominal 
value and the maximum price is the higher of 5% above the average of 
the middle market values of those shares for the five business days before 
the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5(1) of the  
Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003. The Companies Act 2006 
enables certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an 
alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the 
Company. Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold 
for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under the 
Company’s share schemes. Once held in treasury, the Company is not 
entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at 
meetings, in respect of those shares. Further, no dividend or distribution of 
the Company’s assets may be made to the Company in respect of those 
shares whilst held in treasury. 
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 
13, the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury 
rather than cancelling them. The total number of ordinary shares that are 
under option through the Company’s share option schemes at 23 June 
2010 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice) 
is 4,992,145 of which 4,091,868 are options over unissued ordinary 
shares. The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options 
over unissued ordinary shares represented on this date was 1.04% and 
the proportion of issued ordinary share capital that they will represent  
if the full authority to purchase shares (existing and being sought) is  
used is 0.95%. The authority will expire on 1 November 2011 or at  
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (whichever is the 
earlier). It is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar 
authority annually. 
Resolution 14 
Notice of general meetings 
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Companies 
(Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 (the ‘Shareholders’ Rights 
Regulations’) increase the notice period required for general meetings  
of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter  
notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.  
(Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear 
days’ notice.)  
   NOTICE OF MEETING 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 continued 
118 www.dssmith.uk.com 
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations on  
3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other 
than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days’ notice without 
obtaining such shareholder approval. In order to preserve this ability, 
Resolution 14 seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until  
the Company’s next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that  
a similar resolution will be proposed.  
Note that if a general meeting is called on less than 21 clear days’ 
notice, the Company will make a means of electronic voting available  
to all shareholders for that meeting. 
The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into 
account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in 
relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company 
and shareholders as a whole. 
Resolution 15 
Adoption of new Articles of Association 
It is proposed in resolution 15 to adopt new Articles of Association  
(the ‘New Articles’) in order to update the Company’s current Articles  
of Association (the ‘Current Articles’), primarily to take account of  
the coming into force of the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations and  
the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006. 
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised 
below. Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying 
nature, and also some more minor changes which merely reflect  
changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or the Shareholders’ Rights 
Regulations, have not been noted. A copy of the proposed New Articles 
and a copy of the Memorandum of Association and Current Articles, 
marked to show all the changes proposed, will be available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, 
One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, during normal business hours from 
the date of this circular to the date of the Annual General Meeting, and at 
the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to 
the meeting and until the conclusion of the meeting. 
(a) The Company’s objects 
Prior to 1 October 2009, the provisions regulating the operations of the 
Company were set out in the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association. The Company’s Memorandum contained, among other 
things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the 
Company is authorised to undertake. This is drafted to give a wide  
scope. The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional 
significance of a company’s memorandum, providing that a memorandum 
will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each 
subscriber has agreed to take in the company. Under the Companies Act 
2006, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in 
a company’s memorandum are deemed to be contained in the company’s 
articles of association, but the company can remove these provisions by 
special resolution.  
Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that, unless a company’s articles 
provide otherwise, a company’s objects are unrestricted. This abolishes 
the need for companies to have objects clauses. For this reason, the 
Company is proposing to remove its objects clause, together with all  
other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies 
Act 2006, are now treated as forming part of its Articles of Association. 
Resolution 15(a) confirms the removal of these provisions although, where 
appropriate, to preserve the status quo, certain Directors’ powers that 
were previously dealt with in the Memorandum have been added back  
into the New Articles. As the effect of Resolution 15(a) will also be to 
remove the statement currently in the Company’s Memorandum of 
Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain  
an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders. 
(b) Authorised share capital and unissued shares 
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company  
to have an authorised share capital, and the New Articles reflect this. 
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any 
time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the 
Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employees’ share schemes. 
(c) Redeemable shares 
Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue 
redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner 
of redemption, whereas the Companies Act 2006 enables directors to 
determine such matters themselves, provided that they are authorised to 
do so by the articles. The New Articles contain such an authorisation for 
the Directors. The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but, 
if it did so, the Directors would need shareholders’ authority to issue new 
shares in the usual way. 
(d) Conversion of shares into stock 
The Current Articles refer to a power for the Company by ordinary 
resolution to convert its paid up shares into stock. This is no longer 
possible under the Companies Act 2006 and, accordingly, the provision 
has been deleted. 
(e) Suspension of registration of share transfers 
The Current Articles permit the Directors to suspend the registration  
of share transfers. This power has been removed in the New Articles 
because it is inconsistent with the Companies Act 2006, which requires 
share transfers to be registered as soon as practicable. 
(f) Notice of general meetings 
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations amend the Companies Act 2006 to 
require the Company to give 21 clear days’ notice of general meetings 
unless the Company offers members an electronic voting facility and a 
special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days 
has been passed. Annual General Meetings must be held on 21 clear 
days’ notice. The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current 
Articles to be consistent with the new requirements. 
(g) Adjournments for lack of quorum 
Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders’ Rights 
Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held 
at least 10 clear days after the original meeting. The New Articles amend 
the provisions of the Current Articles to reflect this requirement. 
(h) Chairman’s casting vote 
The New Articles remove the provision in the Current Articles giving the 
Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes, as this is no 
longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006. 
(i) Voting by proxies on a show of hands  
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 
2006 so that it now provides that, subject to a company’s articles, each 
proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands, unless 
the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case the 
proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been 
instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one 
or more members to vote against the resolution. The New Articles amend 
the provisions of the Current Articles to reflect these changes, and to 
clarify the procedure to be followed if a proxy is appointed by more than 
one member and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more of 
those members. 
(j) Voting record date and proxy appointment deadline 
Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders’ Rights 
Regulations, the Company must determine the right of members to vote at 
a general meeting by reference to the Register not more than 48 hours   
 
  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 119 
NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of  
days that are not working days. The Companies Act 2006 also allows 
companies to set a time limit for the receipt of proxy appointments and 
related documents that is not more than 48 hours before the time for  
the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days that are not 
working days. The New Articles amend the Current Articles to reflect 
these provisions. 
(k) Voting in accordance with instructions 
Under the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly 
required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by 
members. For the avoidance of doubt, the New Articles contain a 
provision stating that the Company is not obliged to check whether a 
proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with the 
members’ instructions. 
(l) Change of name 
Prior to 1 October 2009, a company could only change its name by 
special resolution, but now, under the Companies Act 2006, a company 
is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.  
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the Directors 
to pass a resolution to change the Company’s name. 
(m) Scrip dividends 
In line with market practice, the New Articles update the Current Articles 
to provide that the value of shares issued in connection with a scrip 
dividend may be determined by ordinary resolution, or by reference to  
the average middle-market quotation for shares of the same class on the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the day on which the shares 
are first quoted ‘ex’ dividend, and the four subsequent dealing days.  
The New Articles also allow the Directors the flexibility at any time before 
the further shares are allotted to decide that the dividend will be paid in 
cash instead. 
(n) General 
Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language  
into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of  
the New Articles to the language used in the Companies Act 2006.  
Recommendation 
Your Directors believe that all the proposals in the resolutions to be 
considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of  
the Company and its shareholders and recommend shareholders to vote 
in favour of the resolutions. The Directors will be voting in favour of the 
resolutions in respect of their own shareholdings. 
IMPORTANT NOTES ABOUT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
Date 
Tuesday 7 September 2010. 
Location 
Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel, Liverpool Street,  
London EC2M 7QN. 
Timing 
The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing  
to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50am.  
The reception area will be open from 11.30am, from which time 
refreshments will be served. 
Travel information 
A map on the reverse of the Admittance Card shows the location of the 
Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel and the nearest underground and 
railway stations. The venue is less than five minutes’ walk from Liverpool 
Street station. There are no car-parking facilities at the venue. 
Admission 
Please bring the Admittance Card (which is the tear-off section at the 
bottom of the Form of Proxy) with you to the Meeting. You may be asked 
to show the Card before being admitted to the venue. Shareholders  
and proxy holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.  
The registration process may take longer without these documents. 
Shareholders are politely requested to bring no more than one guest to 
the Meeting except by prior arrangement with the Company Secretary. 
Facilities 
The Andaz (formerly Great Eastern) Hotel has wheelchair access.  
If you are planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user,  
it would be helpful if you would telephone the venue in advance on  
020 7618 5618. 
Enquiries and questions 
Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the 
Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the 
Registration desk. Staff from Equiniti will be on hand to provide advice 
and assistance.   
Shareholder Information 
 
120 www.dssmith.uk.com 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  
Financial diary 
24 June 2010 
Announcement of final results for the year ended 30 April 2010 
11 August 2010 
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 
7 September 2010 
Annual General Meeting 
14 September 2010 
Payment of final dividend 
8 December 2010* 
Announcement of half-year results for the six months ended 31 October 2010 
26 January 2011* 
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 
1 March 2011* 
Payment of interim dividend 
23 June 2011* 
Announcement of final results for the year ended 30 April 2011 
* provisional date 
COMPANY WEBSITE 
The Company’s website at www.dssmith.uk.com contains the latest 
information for shareholders, including press releases and an updated 
financial diary. E-mail alerts of the latest news, press releases and 
financial reports about DS Smith Plc may be obtained by registering  
for the e-mail news alert service on the website. 
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION 
The latest price of the Company’s ordinary shares is available from the FT 
Cityline service. Calls within the UK are charged at 75 pence per minute at  
all times. To access this service, telephone 09058 171 690. Alternatively click 
on www.londonstockexchange.com. DS Smith’s ticker symbol is SMDS. It is 
recommended that you consult your financial adviser and verify information 
obtained from these services before making any investment decision. 
REGISTRARS 
Please contact the Registrars at the address below to advise of a change 
of address or for any enquiries relating to dividend payments, lost share 
certificates or other share registration matters.  
The Registrars provide on-line facilities at www.shareview.co.uk. Once you 
have registered you will be able to access information on your DS Smith Plc 
shareholding, update your personal details and amend your dividend 
payment instructions on-line without having to call or write to the Registrars. 
DIVIDENDS 
Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank 
or building society account should contact the Registrars. In addition,  
the Registrars are now able to pay dividends in 36 foreign currencies.  
This service is called ‘TAPS’ and enables the payment of your dividends 
directly into your bank account in your home currency. A charge of 
£2.50 is deducted from each dividend payment to cover the costs 
involved. Please contact the Registrars to request further information. 
SHARE DEALING SERVICES 
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone and internet dealing service. 
Further details including terms and rates can be obtained by logging on  
to the website at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling 0845 603 
7037. Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.  
J.P. Morgan Cazenove operates a low-cost share dealing service for 
private investors who wish to buy or sell ordinary shares of the Company. 
This is an execution-only service and further details can be obtained from 
The Share Dealing Service, J.P. Morgan Cazenove, 10 Aldermanbury, 
London EC2V 7RF. Telephone 020 7155 5155. Please note there is  
a minimum transaction level of £500 for using this service. 
REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS 
Secretary and Registered Office 
Carolyn Cattermole 
Beech House 
Whitebrook Park 
68 Lower Cookham Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8XY 
Registered in England No: 1377658 
Auditors 
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ 
Solicitors 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London E1 6AD 
Principal clearing bank 
The Royal Bank of Scotland 
135 Bishopsgate 
London EC2M 3UR 
Stockbroker 
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
10 Aldermanbury 
London EC2V 7RF 
Joint investment banks 
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
10 Aldermanbury 
London EC2V 7RF 
UBS 
1 Finsbury Avenue 
London EC2M 2PP 
Registrars 
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Registrars queries 
UK telephone 0871 384 2197 
Calls to this number will be charged at 8 pence per minute from  
a BT landline. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary. 
Overseas telephone +44 121 415 7047 
On the internet at www.shareview.co.uk 
  Principal Offices
CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE
DS SMITH PLC
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400
DS SMITH PACKAGING
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 754 380
ST REGIS PAPER COMPANY
Kemsley Mill
Sittingbourne
Kent ME10 2TD
Telephone +44 (0) 1795 518 900
SEVERNSIDE RECYCLING
Ty Gwyrdd
11 Beddau Way
Caerphilly
Mid Glamorgan CF83 2AX
Telephone +44 (0) 2920 718 400
DS SMITH KAYSERSBERG
BP 1
11 Route Industrielle
68320 Kunheim
France
Telephone +33 (0) 3 89 72 24 00
DS SMITH PLASTICS
Butlers Leap
Clifton Road
Rugby
Warwickshire CV21 3RQ
Telephone +44 (0) 1788 532 861
SPICERS
Sawston
Cambridge CB22 3JG
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 822 000
BUSINESSES
CONTENTS
1 Building the Business of Tomorrow
10 Focused on the Future – Interview with Miles
Roberts, DS Smith’s New Group Chief Executive
12 DS Smith Group at a Glance
14 2009/10 Highlights
15 Chairman’s Statement
16 Chief Executive’s Review
18 A Clear and Consistent Strategy
19 Our Group Key Performance Indicators
20 Description of the Group
22 Operating Review
28 Financial Review
32 Risk Management
34 Corporate Responsibility Review
BUSINESS REVIEW
An overview of our business,
strategy, performance, key
performance figures and
management statements
40 Directors and Company Secretary
42 Corporate Governance
46 Remuneration Report
56 Directors’ Report and Directors’
Responsibilities Statement
GOVERNANCE
Introducing the Board of
Directors and explaining our
approach to governance and
corporate responsibility
59 Independent Auditors’ Report
60 Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
106 Company Balance Sheet and Notes
112 Five-Year Financial Summary
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements and
notes explaining the details
of our financial performance
for the year
113 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
120 Shareholder Information
121 Principal Offices
NOTICE OF MEETING
Our notice of the annual
general meeting and
shareholder information
The DS Smith Plc website provides news and details of the Group’s activities, plus links to our business sites and up-to-date
information including:
• results announcements and other press releases
• presentations
• share price data
• analysts’ coverage and forecasts
• e-mail alert service
• this and historical Annual Reports in PDF format
VISIT US AT: www.dssmith.uk.com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010
DS SMITH PLC
Beech House
Whitebrook Park
68 Lower Cookham Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400
Fax +44 (0) 1628 583 401
E-mail ir@dssmith.co.uk
www.dssmith.uk.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2010
