 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 KEY HIGHLIGHTS
2012/13 has been a transformational year for DS Smith with the acquisition of SCA Packaging resulting in a doubling in size of the Group. 
Over the year we have delivered sales growth of 86 per cent, operating proﬁt growth of 77 per cent and earnings per share growth of 36 
per cent and have increased our dividend per share by 36 per cent. The decline in return on average capital employed reﬂects the dilutive 
impact of the acquisition of SCA Packaging, and we expect returns to improve as we deliver efﬁciencies and synergies across the Group.
We are committed to all our stakeholders, including our customers, our employees and the environment. Following the acquisition of SCA 
Packaging, we see a great opportunity to improve our service standards across the wider Group. Our accident frequency rate is down 13 
per cent, whilst our carbon emissions are down 7.7 per cent.
* Continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional items.
250.9
* Change to methodology of data collection and unit of measurement (see pages 37-38 for more detail). 
250 250 250 250 9 9 .9 .9
76.7
110.9
142.0
250.9
10 11 12 13
Operating proﬁt
*
2012: £142.0m
£250.9m
94.0
96.0
97.0
94.0
10 11 12 13
Customer service
Target
On-time, in-full delivery
97%
7.7
8.8
6.9
6.0
10 11 12 13
Employees
Target
Accident frequency rate
nil
308.1
284.4
12 13
Environmental
Target
CO2/revenue (kg/tonnes*)
-20% in 10 years
9.0
11.5
14.6
12.3
10 11 12 13
2012: 14.6%
12.3%
Return on average 
capital employed
*
6.3
10.0
12.8
17.4
10 11 12 13
Earning per share
*
2012: 12.8p
17 .4p
3.2
4.5
5.9
8.0
10 11 12 13
Dividend per share
2012: 5.9p
8.0p               1
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
DS Smith is a leading packaging company 
providing corrugated packaging solutions 
throughout Europe as well as plastic packaging 
solutions worldwide.
MORE ONLINE
Explore our website to learn more about DS Smith
www.dssmith.uk.com.
MORE INSIDE
EXPECT MORE 
2 At a Glance 
6  More Focus
8  More Ideas
10  More Efﬁciency
12  More Growth
14  More Sustainable Value 
BUSINESS REVIEW
16  Chairman’s Statement 
18  Chief Executive’s Review 
24  Operating Review 
30  Financial Review 
34  Corporate Responsibility Review
GOVERNANCE 
48  Board of Directors and Company Secretary 
50  Corporate Governance Report
58 Remuneration Report 
71  Directors’ Report and Directors’  
Responsibilities Statement 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
75  Independent Auditor’s Report 
76   Consolidated Financial Statements  
and Notes 
123   Company Balance Sheet and Notes 
128 Five-Year Financial Summary 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
AT A GLANCE
OUR 
VISION
is to become the 
leader in recycled 
packaging for 
consumer goods.
WHO WE ARE
Our story can be traced back to the hand-made rigid box making business 
started in 1940 by the Smith brothers in East London. Since then, the 
company has grown continuously, through a series of acquisitions including 
St Regis (now DS Smith Paper) in 1986 and Kaysersberg (now DS Smith 
Kaysersberg) in 1991. DS Smith originally listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in 1960. We are a leading provider of corrugated packaging in 
Europe and are present in 25 countries employing around 20,000 people.
STRATEGIC GOALS
To delight our customers
• By delivering on all our commitments.
• By providing innovative  
packaging solutions.
To realise the potential of our people
• By creating a place where people  
are proud to give their best.
• By living our values through  
everything we do. 
To consistently deliver  
shareholder value
• By building a resilient and  
sustainable business model.
• By winning market share and  
expanding into new markets.
To lead the way in recycling
• By setting the standard for  
recycling packaging.
• By building sustainability into  
our decisions.
See more on page 20
20,000
25
We now have
employees operating in
countries
OUR VALUES
Be caring 
We take pride in what we do and care 
about our customers, our people and the 
world around us.
Be challenging 
We are not afraid to constructively 
challenge each other and ourselves  
to ﬁnd a better way forward.
Be trusted 
We can always be trusted to deliver  
on our promises.
Be responsive 
We seek new ideas and understanding  
and are quick to react to opportunities.
Be tenacious 
We get things done.
See more on page 40               3
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
BUSINESS MODEL BALANCE OF OUR BUSINESS
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Our business model is designed to deliver, consistently, 
a return on capital above our cost of capital. 
We have built a resilient and sustainable business model where our 
long position in corrugated packaging and the collection of ﬁbres 
through recycling, and our short position in paper manufacturing, 
help to insulate us from the volatility of the paper cycle. We operate 
through our closed loop recycling model which is also an important 
differentiator as consumer goods companies and retailers seek to 
fulﬁl their environmental commitments.
See more on page 19
At DS Smith we are 
committed to conducting  
our business in a responsible 
and sustainable manner, 
delighting our customers, 
creating value for our 
shareholders, and providing 
our employees with a safe 
and productive work place. 
Our corporate responsibility 
approach covers health  
and safety, the environment,  
our employees and  
the community.
Customer
WHERE WE OPERATE E WE O
United Kingdom
Western Europe
Central Europe & Italy
DACH & Northern Europe
View more online at  
www.dssmith.uk.com
See more on page 34
See more on page 24
INNOVATION
SERVICE
QUALITY
INNOVA V V T A A ION
QUALITY T T
PAPER
RECYCLING
PACKAGING
RETAILER RET
ACKAGI
APER
SUSTAINABLE 
SOLUTIONS
(Long) 5.4
(Short) 2.1
(Long) 3.0
Balance of our combined businesses (million tonnes)*
Fibre sourcing/
collection 
Corrugated 
case material 
manufacture 
Corrugated
packaging 
* Pro forma totals. 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
On 30 June 2012, SCA Packaging 
was acquired for €1.6 billion. We 
have doubled in size to form a leading 
corrugated packaging business in 
Europe. Our strengthened business 
model and focused strategy are creating 
an exciting future for the Group with 
more growth opportunities ahead.
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive
2012/13 was a year of  
transformation for DS Smith                5
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
EXPECT MORE...
MORE FOCUS
MORE IDEAS
MORE EFFICIENCY
MORE GROWTH
MORE SUSTAINABLE V ALUE
See more on page 6
See more on page 8
See more on page 10
See more on page 12
See more on page 14 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
MORE
FOCUS               7
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
%
ON-TIME,  
IN-FULL DELIVERY
Through on-going focus on service,  
quality and innovation
Working with our customers to meet their needs
With our enlarged geographic  
footprint, DS Smith can offer pan-European 
coverage to our largest customers, whilst 
also ensuring that our local customers 
receive high levels of service, quality  
and innovation. We work closely with  
our customers to understand their needs, 
helping them to improve production 
efﬁciencies throughout the entire supply 
chain, and reducing costs through the  
use of innovative products which use less 
paper, helping to reduce logistics costs 
and matching customers’ requirements  
for a reduced carbon footprint. For our 
FMCG customers, high service levels are 
essential with the need for a more reliable 
and consistent source of supply, enabling 
customers to reduce their inventory levels. 
Our quality standards are very high with  
a defects rate of 0.2 per cent.
With the integration of SCA Packaging, 
we have an opportunity to improve our 
service offering across Europe, with  
a real focus on getting it right for the 
customer. Whilst our on-time, in-full (OTIF) 
delivery rates are high, we are focused  
on further improving our standards across 
the wider Group as we continue to build 
on the very high levels of service achieved 
in our legacy DS Smith business. MORE
IDEAS
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com Business Review Governance Financial Statements
DESIGNING  
FOR THE FUTURE
Our Innovation Centre is the European  
inspiration “lab” for DS Smith Packaging
We create value for our customers by developing innovative packaging 
solutions that meet their needs, helping to increase their sales and reduce 
their costs
Based in Brussels, our Innovation Centre  
is a strategic resource within DS Smith to 
develop sustainable proﬁtable growth with 
our pan-European customers. It also acts  
as the think-tank for developing the next 
generation of retail packaging, anticipating 
future trends in the industry, inspiring both 
our customers and our own network of 
design centres located across Europe.
The Innovation Centre is complementary  
to our network of 17 design centres.
In addition, our three Impact and Innovation 
Centres in the UK, France and Poland 
allow us to demonstrate to our customers 
and their end customers, the major  
retailers, the many beneﬁts of Retail Ready 
Packaging in terms of brand promotion as 
the trend towards Point of Sale advertising 
continues. For the retailer there are also 
signiﬁcant productivity efﬁciencies, with  
less time spent on stocking shelves and 
more time for customer-facing roles.
              9 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
2009/10 2010/11
WE AIM TO OPERATE  
AS ONE BUSINESS
By working together effectively we can add  
value across the Group
Not just bigger, but better
With the acquisition of SCA Packaging, we 
have doubled the size of the Group. However, 
the real value is in what we can achieve  
as an enlarged business, with strengthened 
management structures and scale efﬁciencies. 
We have built a new marketing, sales and 
design network, where our teams are able  
to support our pan-European customers more 
effectively. Our central Procurement team is 
realising signiﬁcant savings through the scale 
beneﬁts of the enlarged Group, with improved 
buying terms and greater discipline applied 
throughout the procurement process. We have 
also created a new management structure to 
improve our sourcing, supply and management 
of paper within the business to serve our 
packaging businesses in the most efﬁcient way.
In addition, we have made signiﬁcant progress 
with our target synergies, realising €40 million of 
cost savings and €120 million of cash savings in 
the ﬁrst year. The cash savings are reﬂected in the 
Group’s working capital, where we have seen a 
further reduction in the working capital to revenue 
ratio, despite historically higher levels of working 
capital in the former SCA Packaging business. 
This allows us to re-deploy capital elsewhere in 
the business, helping to create further growth  
and efﬁciencies across the Group.
MORE
EFFICIENCY
2008/09               11
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
2011/12 2012/13
Working capital to revenue has fallen to
4.5
%
TOTAL TARGET SYNERGIES THROUGH TO 2014/15
€120m
Total cost  
savings
TOTAL TARGET SYNERGIES THROUGH TO 2014/15
€150m
Total cash  
savings 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Extending the reach of  
our innovative products
Trayzer was initially designed for one large 
customer, but we are now winning business 
with other large pan-European customers, 
such as Nestlé, through our innovative 
shelf-ready packaging solutions. 
OPENING UP  
NEW MARKETS
We have the scale to invest  
and grow in new markets with  
a clear focus on packaging
Expanded capability in key areas to reﬂect 
signiﬁcant growth opportunities
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging,  
we are now fully operational in 15 countries across 
Europe, with limited operations in a further 10 
countries. This is enabling us to offer our innovative 
products and services on a pan-European basis to  
our largest customers, whilst simultaneously extending 
our reach to new customers in new markets. We  
are now operating in both the largest markets and  
the fastest growing markets across Europe, and we 
see further opportunities to grow our market share  
in the future.
25 countries
MORE
GROWTH
ge 
ess 
                13
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Strengthened central structure 
to support future growth
We have created a new central 
marketing and sales centre in  
Brussels together with a design 
network across Europe.
Winning new business with 
existing customers
We have recently won new business in 
Poland with Danone, with our innovative 
product, R-Flute
®
, rolling out across Europe. 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
MORE
SUSTAINABLE 
VALUE
GROWING  
STAKEHOLDER VALUE
We recognise the need to have a robust business model 
which provides sustainable solutions for our stakeholders
Adding value through innovative products and services
At DS Smith we are committed to conducting  
our business in a responsible and sustainable 
manner, delighting our customers, creating value 
for our shareholders and providing employees 
with a safe and productive environment.
Our closed loop recycling model enables  
FMCG companies and retailers to fulﬁl their 
environmental commitments, through the 
collection of used corrugated boxes, typically 
from the retailer. This provides the raw materials 
to manufacture corrugated case material, the 
paper used to make our corrugated packaging. 
In addition, the use of lightweight and space-
saving packaging solutions delivers signiﬁcant 
environmental as well as cost beneﬁts to our 
customers, with lower carbon footprints and 
lower transport costs. We work closely with  
our customers to meet all their packaging  
needs, providing packaging solutions that add 
value across the whole of their supply chain.
The added value that we are able to  
deliver to our customers, helps to build  
stronger returns for the Group overall. With  
our enlarged geographic footprint, we have  
built a more resilient business, beneﬁtting  
from scale efﬁciencies and strengthened  
management structures. 
Customers
The use of our innovative lightweight 
products, such as R-Flute
®
, enables
customers to meet their environmental
requirements and delivers quality, 
performance and cost-saving beneﬁts 
throughout the supply chain.
Employees
We have conducted a Group-wide 
employee survey to better understand 
the views and opinions of all
employees and, based on the
feedback, have formulated action 
plans for 2013/14.
See more on page 7
See more on page 40 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Business Review Governance Business Review Governance
       15
Environment
Following the acquisition of SCA 
Packaging and the doubling in size 
of the Group, we continue to set 
challenging environmental targets 
as we recognise the increased 
impact of our operations.
Shareholders
Our strategy to become the leading provider 
g of recycled packaging for consumers is delivering
sustainable and attractive returns, with a business 
model that has long positions in recycling and 
packaging and a short position in paper, 
where returns are more volatile.
See more on page 36
See more on page 19 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Gareth Davis
Chairman
I am delighted to report that 2012/13 has 
been another year of substantial progress in 
what has been a transformational period for 
the Group. During the year the Group has 
made further strides towards our strategic aim 
of becoming the leading supplier of recycled 
packaging for consumer goods in Europe and 
we are now a leading player, with very strong 
market positions across the largest and fastest 
growing markets in Europe. This has been 
achieved through a combination of organic 
growth in our core packaging businesses, 
together with the acquisition of SCA Packaging 
which has doubled the size of our business.
DS Smith has gone through a great deal of 
change in the last three years and particularly 
in the last 12 months. Managing that change 
has been a fundamental part of the good 
governance of this Company and the 
responsibilities of addressing the interests of  
all of our various stakeholders – shareholders, 
employees, customers and the environment –  
are at the forefront of our decision making 
processes. With good governance in mind, 
the Group has augmented and strengthened 
the Board with two additional members who 
bring further expertise.
Corporate developments and strategy
In December 2010 we set out a clear strategy 
to investors, accompanied by key performance 
indicators and the actions that we would seek 
to take. A key part of our strategy was to build 
a packaging and recycling business in existing 
A YEAR OF 
TRANSFORMATION
Dividend per share
 8.0p
2012: 5.9p
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
(Value £)
Total shareholder return*
DS Smith FTSE 250 Index
Source: Thomson Reuters
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
*  This graph shows the value, at 30 April 2013, of £100 invested in DS Smith over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years compared  
with that of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.               17
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
OUR VALUES
We believe that a clear set of values and 
behaviours, owned and lived by all our 
employees, can make a fundamental 
difference to how they feel and go about  
their work.
DS Smith is founded on the  
following values:
BE CARING 
We take pride in what we do and care  
about our customers, our people and the 
world around us.
BE CHALLENGING 
We are not afraid to constructively 
challenge each other and ourselves  
to ﬁnd a better way forward.
BE TRUSTED 
We can always be trusted to deliver  
on our promises.
BE RESPONSIVE 
We seek new ideas and understanding 
and are quick to react to opportunities.
BE TENACIOUS 
We get things done.
markets and new markets, and in January 
2012, we announced our intention to acquire 
SCA Packaging, the second largest corrugated 
packaging group in Europe. This transaction 
signiﬁcantly extended our footprint across 
Europe, enabling us to offer pan-European 
coverage to our largest customers whilst 
continuing to support our local customers. The 
acquisition was completed on 30 June 2012, 
and we have been delighted with the progress 
made on the integration of the two businesses, 
as a result of the clear planning which was put 
into effect on day one of our ownership of 
SCA Packaging. We have strengthened the 
organisational and management structures to 
reﬂect the doubling in size of the Group and to 
accord with the greater scope of the enlarged 
business. Substantial progress has been made 
with regard to the delivery of synergies 
identiﬁed in the original announcement of  
the acquisition, and we have signiﬁcantly 
upgraded these synergy targets over the  
course of the year. 
Trading performance
Throughout this transformational period,  
our core packaging businesses have  
continued to deliver a solid performance, 
despite the challenging economic headwinds 
and we have delivered an 86 per cent 
increase in revenue and a 77 per cent 
increase in operating proﬁt. The performance 
of the legacy DS Smith packaging business 
has been particularly pleasing and we are 
also encouraged by the improving trend in  
the former SCA Packaging business, giving  
us conﬁdence for further improvements over  
the course of the next year. SCA Packaging 
has delivered a return above our cost of 
capital in the ﬁrst year of the acquisition, a  
full year earlier than originally anticipated,  
and the Group as a whole, has delivered a 
return on average capital employed of 12.3 
per cent.  Earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased 36 per cent to 17.4 
pence (2011/12: 12.8 pence).
Dividend
The Board considers the dividend to be an 
important component of shareholder returns.  
In December 2010 we set out our dividend 
policy for a progressive dividend where 
dividend cover is expected to average 
between 2.0 and 2.5 times through the cycle.
Accordingly, the Board recommends a  
ﬁnal dividend for 2012/13 of 5.5 pence  
per share, which together with the interim 
dividend of 2.5 pence per share gives a total 
dividend for the year of 8.0 pence per share 
(2011/12: 5.9 pence per share). This 
represents an increase of 36 per cent over  
the prior year and a cover of 2.2 times in 
relation to adjusted earnings per share, in  
line with our policy.
Board changes
DS Smith has a very strong Board. This reﬂects 
the exciting potential for growth for the Group 
over the coming years.
In order to reﬂect the size of the enlarged 
Group, we have sought to further augment  
the strength of our Board and have conducted 
a thorough search with the following newly 
appointed additional members. Kathleen 
O’Donovan joined the Board on 5 December 
2012, having previously been Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of BTR plc and Invensys plc, together 
with a number of non-Executive Directorships 
for a variety of high proﬁle companies, thereby 
bringing a breadth of experience across 
numerous industry sectors. Chris Britton  
joined the Board on 6 March 2013, having 
previously been Chief Executive of the Findus 
Group and Global Marketing Director of 
Diageo, and is currently a non-Executive 
Director of Alliance Boots GmbH and brings  
a wealth of experience in the consumer  
goods sector.
In January 2013 Steve Dryden, Group 
Finance Director, announced his intention to 
step down from the Board to take up a role in 
a private equity backed business. Steve joined 
the Board in April 2008 and stepped down 
on 28 June 2013. I would like to thank him  
for his signiﬁcant contribution to DS Smith over 
the last ﬁve years, where he has played an 
instrumental part in considerably re-shaping the 
Group, and the Board wishes him well in his 
future career.
We conducted an extensive search for a  
new Group Finance Director and recently 
announced the appointment of Adrian Marsh, 
who will take up his position with DS Smith in 
late September, at which time he will also join 
the Board. Adrian is currently the Group 
Director of Tax, Treasury and Corporate 
Finance at Tesco PLC, and was previously  
the European Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at 
AstraZeneca plc and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
for the Global Building Products division  
at Pilkington plc and brings a wealth of 
international experience together with 
knowledge of the manufacturing, consumer 
and retail sectors.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank all our colleagues throughout DS Smith 
for the substantial efforts made by everyone to 
deliver these results this year, in what has been 
a very exciting period for the Group. It is the 
continuing commitment and focus on the part 
of our colleagues to deliver great service, 
quality and innovation to our customers, which 
enables the delivery of ongoing substantial 
progress for the Group as a whole.
In 2013/14, we look forward to delivering 
further substantial progress.
Gareth Davis
Chairman 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive
Overview
2012/13 has been a hugely transformational 
period, as we continue on the journey to 
achieve our strategic goal: to become the 
leading supplier of recycled packaging for 
consumer goods. We are doing this, together 
with a continued focus on medium-term 
ﬁnancial performance, by growing our 
packaging and recycling businesses, reducing 
our exposure to paper manufacturing and 
disposing of non-core businesses and assets.
On 30 June 2012, we completed the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging for €1.6 billion, 
which has doubled the size of our business, 
making us a leading provider of corrugated 
packaging across Europe. In September 
2012, we announced a licensing agreement 
with RockTenn (one of North America’s leading 
integrated manufacturers of corrugated 
packaging) giving them exclusive rights to 
manufacture and distribute our patented 
mechanisation technology and associated 
pack designs in the US. This has enabled  
DS Smith to gain wider access to a very large 
and well developed market, whilst at the same 
time establishing another route for offering  
our largest customers global support to their 
brands. We have also signed further licensing 
agreements in other geographical markets and 
are excited about the opportunities in these 
new areas. Notwithstanding this period of 
considerable change, I am delighted to report 
that overall our operations have performed 
well against a challenging macro-economic 
and market environment.  
In 2012/13, the Group’s revenues grew  
by 86 per cent to £3.7 billion predominantly 
due to the acquisition of SCA Packaging, 
accompanied by underlying volume growth  
in corrugated box sales. Operating proﬁt 
increased 77 per cent to £250.9 million 
(2011/12: £142.0 million) and includes 
€40 million of cost synergies. EPS increased 
36 per cent and follows a strong result in the 
prior year where EPS increased 28 per cent. 
MORE GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES AHEAD               19
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
BUSINESS MODEL
DS Smith is one of the largest pan-European 
suppliers of corrugated packaging, with the 
aim of becoming the leader in recycled 
packaging for consumer goods. Our business 
model is to be long in recycling, in order to 
ensure the security of supply of recycled ﬁbres 
used in our packaging. We are short in 
paper manufacturing where returns are more 
volatile and are lower across the business 
cycle than in other areas of our business. We 
are long in recycled corrugated packaging 
which is the main focus of our operation and 
innovation, with some complementary plastic 
packaging businesses where we see 
attractive growth opportunities.
This business mix is optimised to leverage  
our scale and geographic footprint in order  
to supply our customers, whether it is our  
large pan-European customers or our smaller 
local customers, with innovative packaging 
solutions that are aligned with our quality  
and service standards. In what is a 
fragmented market place, we are one of  
only two suppliers who can provide a truly 
pan-European offering and we see further 
opportunities to consolidate and grow our 
market share in Europe.
Our closed loop recycling model is also an 
important differentiator as consumer goods 
companies and retailers seek to fulﬁl their 
environmental commitments. The closed loop 
involves the collection of used corrugated 
boxes, typically from the retailer, which are  
then used to manufacture corrugated case 
material, the paper used to make corrugated 
packaging. We design, manufacture and 
deliver corrugated packaging to our 
customers, the majority of which are FMCG 
companies, who in turn will deliver their 
product to the retailers, thereby completing  
the closed loop. The closed loop model 
addresses the growing demand for recycled 
products, driven by increasing awareness 
across the supply chain. It also provides an 
opportunity to engage with retailers about  
the beneﬁts of corrugated packaging in 
improving the efﬁciency of their operations. 
View more online at  
www.dssmith.uk.com
INNOVATION
SERVICE
QUALITY
INNOVA V V T A A ION
QUALITY T T
PAPER
RECYCLING
PACKAGING
RETAILER RE
CKAG
PER
SUSTAINABLE 
SOLUTIONS 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
We are very encouraged with the progress 
made in our core packaging businesses to 
improve service, quality and innovation to  
our customers. 
Integration of SCA Packaging
We have made considerable progress with 
the integration of the two businesses, with a 
clear integration plan and management team 
in place on the ﬁrst day of ownership of SCA 
Packaging. That detailed level of focus and 
planning has enabled us to deliver synergies 
much earlier than originally anticipated, with 
€40 million of cost synergies and €120 
million of cash synergies delivered in the ﬁrst 
year. In addition, with the strong commitment 
and engagement of our people across the 
Group, we have identiﬁed further synergy 
targets and increased our overall target for cost 
synergies to €120 million, with the target for 
cash synergies increasing to €150 million.
The level of working capital within the former 
SCA Packaging business has more than 
halved under our ownership. We have also 
driven operating efﬁciencies by strengthening 
our processes around procurement and 
creating a management structure to improve 
our sourcing, supply and management of 
paper within the business to serve our 
packaging business in the most efﬁcient way. 
Our customer proposition is substantially 
enhanced through the enlarged geographic 
footprint across Europe, therefore better able  
to serve our pan-European customers, where 
we are seeing stronger volume growth in our 
legacy DS Smith business and an improving 
trend in the former SCA Packaging business. 
As we have previously said, culture is a key 
element to achieving our strategic aims. In the 
prior year, we introduced our corporate values 
which we communicated via the OWN IT! 
programme to all colleagues, and this 
programme is now being rolled out to our 
former SCA Packaging colleagues, helping  
all our people to understand what it means  
to work for DS Smith.
Delivering against our  
synergies targets
When we originally announced the acquisition 
of SCA Packaging in January 2012, we 
identiﬁed a number of synergies in terms of 
both cost and cash savings which we believed 
were achievable through improved efﬁciencies 
and scale beneﬁts throughout the combined 
Group. Over the course of the past 12 months, 
STRATEGY & VISION
DRIVING OUR GROWTH
STRATEGIC GOALS 
DS Smith aims to be the leading supplier of recycled packaging for  
consumer goods. We want to become a trusted and strategic partner to  
our customers, providing innovative packaging solutions for all their needs.  
By focusing on our strategic aims we will deliver attractive, sustainable returns 
to our shareholders and meet the needs of all our stakeholders. This matrix  
sets out the building blocks for how we intend to achieve this.
Our vision Aim How we will succeed
To become  
the leader  
in recycled 
packaging  
for consumer 
goods.
To delight  
our customers.
By delivering on all  
our commitments.
By becoming trusted and strategic 
partners through providing 
innovative packaging solutions.
To realise the  
potential of  
our people.
By creating a place where  
people are proud to work  
and give their best.
By living our values through  
everything we do.
To consistently deliver 
shareholder value.
By winning market share and  
expanding into new markets.
By building a resilient and 
sustainable business model.
To lead the way  
in recycling.
By setting the standard for  
recycling packaging.
By building sustainability into  
our decisions.               21
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES
We have set testing medium-term targets. We aim to satisfy our  
four key stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders and  
the environment – because we believe that this is the way to build  
a sustainable business.
All KPIs are calculated in respect of the Group’s continuing operations, excluding amortisation and exceptional items for the period. 
1.  Average gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the countries in which we operate was (0.5%) – GDP +1% target = 0.5%. 
2.   Average capital employed is the average monthly capital employed for the last 12 months. Capital employed is made up of property,  
plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors/creditors, provisions and assets/liabilities held for sale.
KPI
What we measure Deﬁnition  FY 2011/12  FY 2012/13 Target
Customer Service
On-time, in-full delivery The proportion of customer orders that are delivered  
within the required time-slot, in-full.
 97% 94% 97%
Employee
Accident frequency rate The number of lost time accidents per million  
hours worked.
 6.88  6.01 nil
Financial
Like-for-like corrugated  
volume growth
Volume growth of our corrugated box products,  
excluding the effect of acquisitions and disposals.
 +2%  +0.6%
1
 GDP +1%
Return on sales Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation,  
as a percentage of revenue.
 7.2%  6.8% 7 – 9%
Return on average  
capital employed
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation,  
as a percentage of the average capital employed
2
 
over the 12 month period.
 14.6%  12.3% 12 – 15%
Net debt/EBITDA Net debt at the period end over earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for the 
preceeding 12 month period.
 net cash  1.97x ≤2.0x
Cash conversion Free cash ﬂow before tax, net interest, growth capital 
expenditure and pension deﬁcit reduction payments,  
as a percentage of earnings before interest, tax,  
amortisation and exceptional items.
 139%  171% >120%
Environmental
Reduction of CO
2
 emissions  
by 20 per cent relative to  
production over the next 10 years
Total CO
2
 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) related to 
production (kg/tonnes).
 308.1 284.4 -20% in 
 10 years 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
we have made substantial progress towards 
achieving those targets which we upgraded 
from €75 million to €100 million for cost 
synergies and from €40 million to €130 
million for cash synergies in October 2012.  
In addition, we have also identiﬁed €100 
million of surplus assets for disposal over the 
course of three years to 2015. In 2012/13 
we have delivered €40 million of cost savings 
and €120 million of cash savings, together 
with net proceeds of €60 million from the 
disposal of surplus assets. These savings  
have been achieved well ahead of the  
original timetable.
In addition to this, and as a result of the  
strong commitment and engagement of our 
people across the Group, we have now 
identiﬁed further synergy targets and have 
again increased our overall target for cost 
synergies to €120 million and for cash 
synergies to €150 million.
Delivering against our Key 
Performance Indicators
Notwithstanding the considerable changes 
over the past year, we have delivered results 
substantially within our previously stated  
target range for our Key Performance  
Indicators in relation to our ﬁnancial  
metrics, customer service, employees  
and environmental performance.
Volume in our corrugated box business grew  
at 0.6 per cent, in line with our target GDP +1 
per cent for the markets in which we operate. 
Return on sales declined by 40 basis points  
to 6.8 per cent (2011/12: 7.2 per cent)  
(up 20 basis points on a pro forma basis,  
with pro forma deﬁned as like-for-like including 
SCA Packaging results from July 2011 to April 
2012), just below our target range of 7-9 per 
cent and reﬂects the anticipated impact of the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging together with 
the poor performance in paper. However we 
would expect the level of return to improve 
over time as we continue to drive efﬁciencies 
and synergy savings through the business.
Return on average capital employed declined 
by 230 basis points to 12.3 per cent 
(2011/12: 14.6 per cent) (up 30 basis 
points on a pro forma basis) but is within the 
target range of 12-15 per cent and well 
above our estimated cost of capital of c. 9.5 
per cent. The decline reﬂects both the lower 
margin and the lower level of asset utilisation 
historically achieved within SCA Packaging. 
We have made great progress over the past 
year in reducing the level of working capital 
within the former SCA Packaging business and 
we expect to see an increase in asset utilisation 
together with greater operating efﬁciencies 
over the coming years. Return on average 
capital employed is our primary ﬁnancial 
measure of success, as it underpins the 
sustainability of both our investment strategy 
and our dividend policy and we are delighted 
to have achieved a return above our cost of 
capital for SCA Packaging in the ﬁrst year, a 
full year earlier than originally anticipated. All 
senior management have a return on capital 
target included within their incentivisation 
arrangements. The majority of capital 
expenditure during the year has been  
on packaging or recycling, our strategic 
priority areas.
Average monthly working capital, as a 
proportion of revenue, fell to 4.5 per cent 
(2011/12: 4.9 per cent). Historically, levels 
in the former SCA Packaging business were 
closer to 10 per cent. This overall improvement 
has been driven by focused attention on all 
three areas of inventory, debtors and creditors.
The Group was highly cash generative in the 
year with free cash ﬂow of £270.4 million 
(2011/12: £94.5 million). Cash conversion 
was 171 per cent, substantially exceeding our 
target of maintaining this ratio above 120 per 
cent, with the outperformance primarily driven 
by the working capital inﬂow over the year.
At 30 April 2013, the Group had a net debt 
position of £817.0 million (2011/12: net 
cash £321.7 million) reﬂecting the gross 
consideration of £1.3 billion for the acquisition 
of SCA Packaging which was funded through 
a combination of equity and debt. Cash  
ﬂow in the year has also beneﬁtted from the 
remedy disposals required by the European 
competition authorities relating to the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging, together  
Cost and cash synergies upgraded to
€ 1 20m 
and
€ 1 50m
€40m cost and €120m cash 
synergies delivered in 2012/13
Average working capital to revenue
4.5%
2011/12: 4.9%
Free cash ﬂow
£270.4m
2011/12: £94.5m               23
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
with some minor asset disposals with net 
proceeds amounting to £50.8 million. Despite 
increasing our investment in the business, our 
net debt/EBITDA ratio was below our target  
of 2 times or below, and has been achieved  
a full year earlier than expected.
Since we acquired SCA Packaging, we have 
improved the levels of customer service within 
that business. For the Group as a whole our 
key measure of on-time, in-full delivery remains 
strong at 94 per cent, although this is below 
our target of 97 per cent and reﬂects a lower 
level of service delivery in some of the former 
SCA Packaging businesses; we are working 
hard to improve these delivery standards as 
we recognise the importance of this metric  
in underpinning our aim to become a trusted 
strategic business partner. We continue to 
develop innovative products and services, 
providing customers with packaging that  
uses less ﬁbre, with less carbon and less  
cost, through technology. Examples are the 
continued roll-out of R-Flute
®
 which is gaining 
traction with our customers across our enlarged 
geographic footprint, the use of our 
“PackRight” supply-chain tools and software, 
and the ongoing development of unique 
mechanisation solutions, all of which improve 
the value that we are able to deliver to our 
customers via bespoke packaging solutions. 
DS Smith has a commitment to provide every 
employee with a safe and productive working 
environment. I am delighted to report that our 
accident frequency rate for the Group has 
improved by 13 per cent year-on-year. This 
rate of improvement is particularly pleasing 
given the substantial changes in the business 
over the past year and reﬂects the leadership 
shown by the Group’s managers across the 
enlarged business together with the ongoing 
commitment of our colleagues to working 
safely. Our target is a zero accident rate and 
we continue to strive to achieve this.
Summary and outlook
We are delighted with the progress made  
over the year where we have seen good 
performances across our core packaging 
businesses, and we are particularly pleased 
with the integration of the two businesses. 
The current year has started well and in line 
with our expectations. Continued market share 
gains, together with the delivery of further 
synergies underpin our conﬁdence for the 
future, despite the market backdrop remaining 
challenging and the expected impact of input 
cost pressures. Our strengthened customer 
proposition will be further enhanced by 
increased investment in capital expenditure, 
R&D and new business development. Looking 
ahead we remain excited about the further 
growth opportunities for the Group. 
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
OPERATING REVIEW
NEW MARKETS
NEW OPPORTUNITIES
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging, we have doubled the size of the business to form 
a leading corrugated packaging business in Europe. We have refocused and reshaped our 
business, building a Group which is not only bigger but stronger, and we see further growth 
opportunities ahead. We are now operating in 25 countries across Europe, with a signiﬁcantly 
enlarged geographic footprint, entering many markets for the ﬁrst time with new and existing 
customers. We see great opportunities to roll out our innovative products and services with our 
larger customers in new territories, and with new customers in new markets.
United Kingdom
• Includes our corrugated packaging, recycling and paper 
manufacturing operations in the UK
• Very strong market positions – continuing to roll out our  
innovative products and services
Western Europe
• Includes our operations in France, Belgium, the Netherlands  
and Spain
• Strong market position in France and opportunities to grow  
market share in other markets
DACH and Northern Europe
• Includes our operations in Germany, Austria, Switzerland,  
Denmark, Sweden and Finland
Processes 
We have strengthened our management and business processes to 
support our enlarged geographic footprint and to enable us to maximise 
the new market opportunities in our core packaging businesses. We 
have formed new geographic reporting divisions to better reﬂect the way 
we do business. Our regional teams work closely to ensure we deliver 
products and services of the highest quality and using innovative 
solutions that meet our customers’ needs, supported by our central 
marketing, sales and design platform. 
• Newly formed region for DS Smith, extending our reach into  
new markets, with Germany being the largest market in Europe 
Central Europe and Italy
• Includes our operations in Poland, Czech Republic, Romania, 
Hungary, Slovakia, the Baltics and Italy
• Newly formed region for DS Smith with access to high growth markets
Plastics
• Includes our liquid packaging and dispensing and returnable  
transit packaging businesses
• Number two player in the world with operations in the US, Europe, 
Asia and New Zealand and seeking further opportunities to expand 
into new applications and new territories
Culture 
We aim to engage and excite our employees in what we want to 
achieve as a business, encouraging our employees through our  
OWN IT! programme to realise their potential through owning parts  
of the DS Smith story. We are building a culture of ambition and 
accountability, the chance for employees to feel fully aligned with our 
core values of being caring, being challenging, being trusted, being 
responsive and being tenacious. Together this will enable us to achieve 
our strategic goals and meet the needs of all of our stakeholders.
PACKAGING
PAPER
RECYCLING
United 
Kingdom
Western 
Europe
DACH & Northern 
Europe
Central Europe  
& Italy
Plastics
EXPECT MORE               25
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
In the UK, we hold very strong market positions in each of the three business areas. Following 
the acquisition of SCA Packaging our operations comprise 31 packaging manufacturing sites, 
two paper mills and 13 recycling depots, and we have extended our Integrated Recycling and 
Waste Management model outside the UK.
UNITED KINGDOM
2012/13 2011/12
Revenue – £m 961.2 960.2
Operating proﬁt* – £m 47.6 64.4
Return on sales* – % 5.0 6.7
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
Our Tiltmaster  
pack has recently 
won a WorldStar 
Packaging award.
This innovative 
packaging solution 
helps to maximise 
sales through 
optimising on-shelf 
visibility, whilst also 
reducing storage  
and distribution costs 
for our customers.
The UK division comprises our UK corrugated 
packaging business together with our recycling 
operations and UK paper manufacturing 
facilities. Total revenues in the UK are up  
0.1 per cent at £961.2 million (2011/12: 
£960.2 million), with operating proﬁt down 
26 per cent to £47.6 million (2011/12: 
£64.4 million). Return on sales has fallen  
170 basis points to 5.0 per cent. 
Whilst our core UK corrugated packaging 
business has delivered a robust performance, 
revenues for the overall UK division have been 
impacted by continuing weakness in the paper 
market, as a result of which prices and 
demand have remained subdued. 
We have seen good volume growth in our  
UK corrugated packaging business, with the 
legacy DS Smith business outperforming the 
former SCA Packaging business. This growth 
has been delivered despite a relatively ﬂat 
market and with an ongoing focus on driving 
higher margin, value added business. We 
have been working closely with customers  
to optimise their sales through more effective 
Retail Ready Packaging and also looking  
at new uses for corrugated packaging,  
in particular the replacement of various 
plastic-based materials with more customised 
and sustainable ﬁbre-based products. In 
addition, our continuing focus and discipline 
on costs and working capital have helped to 
drive a strong underlying performance, driving 
higher returns in our packaging business.
Our recycling business now includes recycling 
operations outside the UK and has increased 
its overall volumes from 1.8 million tonnes to 
5.5 million tonnes per annum. Customer 
retention remains high, helping us to both grow 
market share and develop new geographical 
markets organically. For example, as a result  
of Tesco’s proactive approach to environmental 
best practice and our ability to deliver market 
leading services, we have extended our 
Integrated Recycling and Waste Management 
model outside the UK. After initially entering  
the Polish market with Tesco, we subsequently 
rolled out our services into the Republic of 
Ireland in July 2012 and are currently in the 
process of deploying our services in additional 
locations in Europe. Looking ahead, we are 
also committed to further growing our business 
in Central Europe. In addition in Germany,  
we are operating for two major retailers,  
whilst also developing direct services for 
retailers in France and Italy, building on  
a solid base established by the former  
SCA Packaging recycling business. 
In the paper business, as expected, prices and 
demand have remained subdued over the past 
year, whilst energy costs have increased, with 
the result that the operating performance has 
been signiﬁcantly impacted and has driven a 
lower return on sales for the UK as a whole. OPERATING REVIEW continued
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
In Western Europe, we are the second largest player in France and the Netherlands, with 
opportunities to grow our market share in each of the markets in this region. Following the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging our operations comprise 35 packaging manufacturing sites  
and four paper mills.
WESTERN EUROPE
2012/13 2011/12
Revenue – £m 966.3 569.4
Operating proﬁt* – £m 73.4 38.9
Return on sales* – % 7.6 6.8
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
 Our packaging 
business in France 
has worked closely 
with Danone to 
support the launch 
of their new yoghurt 
pots with lighter, 
more ergonomic and 
more environmentally 
friendly packaging.
Western Europe consists of our corrugated 
packaging businesses in France, Belgium,  
the Netherlands and Spain, together with  
our paper manufacturing operations in  
France and the Netherlands. The region has 
delivered a strong performance with revenue 
up 70 per cent to £966.3 million (2011/12: 
£569.4 million). Operating proﬁt has 
increased 89 per cent to £73.4 million 
(2011/12: £38.9 million) and return  
on sales has improved 80 basis points  
to 7.6 per cent.
This strong performance has been driven by  
a ﬁrst time contribution from SCA Packaging, 
and a solid performance from our French 
packaging business despite a difﬁcult market 
environment. In France we have seen 
continued volume growth with our FMCG 
customers and an increasing penetration  
of R-Flute
®
 and performance packaging  
within the sales mix. Over the past year we 
have grown our network of licensees with 
corrugated packaging companies, most 
notably with RockTenn in the US, and have 
further licensing agreements with companies  
in the Far East, Australia and South Africa.  
Our packaging businesses in the Benelux 
region have also shown strong growth with  
our top FMCG customers despite a ﬂat market, 
and are working closely with our business in 
France to offer our innovative machine systems 
to our customers in the Benelux region.
As in the UK, the performance of our paper 
manufacturing facilities in France and the 
Netherlands has been impacted by the poor 
demand environment and lower paper prices 
together with higher energy prices.               27
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
This region includes Germany, which is the single largest market for corrugated packaging 
in Europe, representing 22 per cent of the total market. We see signiﬁcant opportunities to 
grow our market share in Germany and to maintain our strong market positions in Northern 
Europe. Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging our operations comprise 47 packaging 
manufacturing sites across the region and two paper mills in Germany.
DACH (GERMANY, AUSTRIA AND SWITZERLAND)  
AND NORTHERN EUROPE
2012/13 2011/12
Revenue – £m 835.7 7.3
Operating proﬁt* – £m 62.4 0.3
Return on sales* – % 7.5 3.8
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
We are ﬁnding new 
applications and 
new markets for our 
products, entering 
into the market for 
pet food packaging 
in Germany in 
2013, where we 
are working with 
Fressnapf, the largest 
pet food company  
in Europe.
The DACH and Northern Europe region is 
newly formed with nearly all of the revenues 
and operating proﬁt being delivered through 
the acquisition of SCA Packaging. This  
division comprises our corrugated packaging 
business across the region (Germany, Austria, 
Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden and Finland) 
together with our German paper  
manufacturing operation. 
Overall, the region has delivered a good 
result, with a decline in the German paper 
business being offset by a more resilient 
performance in our packaging businesses.  
The increase in return on sales of 370 basis 
points reﬂects the beneﬁt of scale, where 
previously we had a very small business  
in this region. This has been accompanied  
by an improving sales mix, where we have 
seen continued business wins in the Display 
sector with our FMCG customers, together  
with synergies arising from the integration.  
We are growing our business with our larger 
customers and are also entering new market 
areas, such as the market for pet food 
packaging in Germany. In Northern Europe 
our Packaging businesses have maintained 
their strong market positions, increasing the 
proportion of performance packaging within 
the sales mix and have improved operational 
efﬁciencies and productivity. OPERATING REVIEW continued
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
In Central Europe, we have access to some of the fastest growing markets in Europe. Following 
the acquisition of SCA Packaging our operations comprise 52 packaging manufacturing sites 
across the region and one paper mill in Italy.
CENTRAL EUROPE AND ITALY 
2012/13 2011/12
Revenue – £m 601.1 167.2
Operating proﬁt* – £m 41.3 16.4
Return on sales* – % 6.9 9.8
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
Central Europe and Italy is a newly  
formed region which comprises our  
packaging businesses in Poland, Czech 
Republic, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia,  
Italy and the Baltics, together with our paper 
manufacturing operation in Italy. As a new 
region, the revenue and operating growth  
has been driven predominantly by the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging together  
with strong performances in our packaging 
businesses in Central Europe. As in the  
UK, ﬁnancial returns in paper have been 
disappointing, affecting the overall Central 
Europe and Italy operating result, with return  
on sales declining by 290 basis points.
We have seen strong growth in our packaging 
businesses in Poland, Hungary and the Baltics, 
where the underlying markets are growing 
much faster than in the rest of Europe, and  
we are growing our business with our largest 
pan-European customers. We will be adding 
further capacity in Poland over the next 12 
months where we continue to see attractive 
returns. In Italy, we are repositioning our offer 
with a greater focus on innovation, and will  
be opening an Impact and Innovation centre  
in the next 12 months.
The strong growth in our packaging  
businesses has been partially offset by 
weakness in the Italian paper and sheet 
businesses where, in line with other markets, 
demand for paper has been weak and where 
in Sheet we have made the strategic decision 
to exit low margin business.
Our innovative  
Ice Pack product, 
which enables the 
pack to act as an ice 
bucket, has recently 
won a WorldStar 
Packaging award.               29
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Our Plastics business comprises liquid packaging and dispensing (LP&D), returnable transit 
packaging (RTP) and a foams products business which we acquired through the acquisition  
of SCA Packaging. We are the second largest player in the global market for LP&D, with  
a particularly strong position in the US. Our operations comprise 29 manufacturing operations 
in the US, Europe, Asia and New Zealand.
PLASTICS
2012/13 2011/12
Revenue – £m 305.0 265.3
Operating proﬁt* – £m 26.2 22.0
Return on sales* – % 8.6 8.3
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
The Plastics business has delivered strong 
growth with revenue up 15 per cent to 
£305.0 million (2011/12: £265.3 million). 
Operating proﬁt increased 19 per cent to 
£26.2 million, while return on sales increased 
30 basis points.
In the LP&D business, we have seen  
another strong year of growth in the US,  
driven by our bag-in-box business (BIB), where 
there is continuing success in products for tea 
urns serving the quick serve restaurant market 
and taps to the liquid laundry detergent 
dispensing market. We continue to grow 
market share and introduce new products such 
as our new TruTap
®
 wine tap which has been 
highly successful, winning business with the 
largest BIB wine producer in the US. 
We continue to invest in capacity and our  
new plant in Thailand is now fully operational, 
enabling further growth in the region as well as 
improving the efﬁciency and service offering to 
our customers. We see further opportunities to 
grow our market share in LP&D in Europe and 
have invested in further capacity in our facilities 
in Bulgaria, where we are looking to enter  
a number of new market segments. 
We are also seeing growth in our RTP business 
where we see applications for our products in 
new markets such as the pharmaceuticals and 
cosmetics sectors.
Operating performance, with return on  
sales up by 30 basis points, has beneﬁtted 
from improvements in business mix and lower 
operating costs as a result of the restructuring 
and rationalisation of the operational structure 
in Europe.
Our new TruTap
®
 
wine tap is winning 
business with the 
largest bag-in-box 
producer in the US. 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Overview
The Group achieved another strong  
ﬁnancial performance in 2012/13,  
despite an economic environment which 
continues to be challenging. This year has 
been a transformational one for the business, 
with the acquisition of SCA Packaging 
enabling us to serve customers on a  
pan-European basis. However, we have 
continued to maintain a rigorous focus on  
our core business and are delivering on the 
strategic, medium-term ﬁnancial targets we 
have set ourselves.
Our success this year has been driven  
by the following:
• Volume growth in line with the GDP +1  
per cent target we set ourselves, supported 
by the resilience of our FMCG customer 
base and our focus on quality and  
customer service.
• Our pricing strategy which enables us  
to pass on changes in input costs on  
a timely basis. 
• Strong cash conversion, driven by our  
efforts to reduce working capital, particularly 
in the acquired SCA Packaging business. 
This has enabled us to reduce our net debt 
levels to below 2 times EBITDA, a year 
ahead of the target set before acquisition, 
whilst still incurring capital expenditure  
well ahead of depreciation. 
on a pro forma basis (like-for-like, including 
SCA Packaging results for July 2011–April 
2012), return on sales rose 20 basis points.
The Group’s return on average capital 
employed of 12.3 per cent in 2012/13 
remained within our medium-term target range 
of 12-15 per cent and was signiﬁcantly above 
the Group’s cost of capital of 9.5 per cent.  
The decrease in the Group’s return on average 
capital employed compared to 2011/12 
(14.6 per cent) reﬂects the comparatively high 
level of capital employed in the acquired SCA 
Packaging business, although signiﬁcant work 
has been done to reduce the level of capital 
employed since acquisition. On a pro forma 
basis (like-for-like, including SCA Packaging 
results for July 2011–April 2012), return on 
average capital employed was up 30  
basis points.
Exceptional items
Acquisition costs in respect of SCA  
Packaging of £11.8 million were recognised 
as an exceptional cost, principally relating to 
professional fees. SCA Packaging integration 
costs during the year were £57.8 million  
(€70 million) and primarily relate to the 
implementation of synergy programmes.  
The post-tax cost, net of a £16.7 million  
tax credit, was £52.9 million (2011/12:  
£16.5 million).
• The realisation of a greater level of  
synergies than was initially determined, 
following the successful integration of the 
SCA Packaging business.
• An ongoing focus on controlling costs.
As a result of the above, for continuing 
operations, revenue for the year increased by 
86 per cent, operating proﬁt rose by 77 per 
cent, free cash ﬂow was up 186 per cent  
and adjusted earnings per share increased  
36 per cent. 
Trading results
All numbers within this review are based  
on continuing operations before amortisation 
and exceptional items, unless otherwise stated.
Revenue for 2012/13 of £3,669.3 million 
represents an increase of 86 per cent, while 
operating proﬁt rose by 77 per cent to 
£250.9 million. Included within operating 
proﬁt are £33 million (€40 million) of cost 
synergies arising from the integration of the 
SCA Packaging business which have been 
delivered earlier than originally anticipated. 
We have also increased our overall target for 
cost synergies to £98 million (€120 million).
Return on sales of 6.8 per cent was just  
below our medium-term target of 7-9 per cent 
and reﬂects the anticipated impact of the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging together with 
the poor performance in paper. However,  
Steve Dryden
Group Finance Director
STRONG FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE               31
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Table 1 – Cash ﬂow
2012/13 
£m
2011/12 
£m
Operating proﬁt 250.9 142.0
Depreciation 112.4 63.9
EBITDA 363.3 205.9
Working capital 157.9 43.7
Pensions/other (17.9) (24.1)
Cash generated from operations 503.3 225.5
Capital expenditure (161.0) (94.2)
Disposal of ﬁxed assets 4.4 8.3
Tax paid (41.7) (25.3)
Net interest paid (34.6) (19.8)
Free cash ﬂow 270.4 94.5
SCA Packaging acquisition costs (31.6) (7.0)
SCA Packaging integration costs (52.9) –
Other exceptional cash costs (27.8) (19.5)
Dividends (36.8) (31.5)
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses (1,281.0) (2.3)
Divestment of subsidiary businesses 50.8 184.5
Net cash ﬂow (1,108.9) 218.7
Shares issued/purchased (1.6) 449.9
Net debt acquired (7.9) (14.2)
Foreign exchange and fair value (27.5) 24.7
Continuing operations (1,145.9) 679.1
Discontinued operations 7.2 (6.4)
Change in net debt (1,138.7) 672.7
Other pre-tax exceptional items  
(including discontinued operations) comprise  
a £15.3 million (2011/12: £58.0 million) 
exceptional gain on disposals, offset by  
other exceptional costs of £18.1 million 
(2011/12: £70.1 million), primarily  
relating to the ongoing implementation  
of the UK shared service centre and other 
restructuring projects. Other post-tax 
exceptional items (including discontinued 
operations), incorporating the beneﬁt of a 
£3.3 million tax credit, result in a £0.5 million 
proﬁt (2011/12: £3.3 million proﬁt). 
Interest, tax and earnings per share
Net interest expense increased from  
£18.4 million in 2011/12 to £36.4 million 
in 2012/13, principally due to the interest 
payable on the ﬁnancing of the SCA 
Packaging acquisition. The employment  
beneﬁt net ﬁnance expense was  
£4.6 million (2011/12: £4.8 million).
Proﬁt before tax (excluding amortisation, 
exceptional items and share of proﬁt of 
associates) was £209.9 million (2011/12: 
£118.8 million), an increase of 77 per cent. 
The Group’s effective tax rate from continuing 
operations, excluding amortisation, exceptional 
items and associates was 23.6 per cent, 
signiﬁcantly lower than the previous year’s  
rate of 27.6 per cent. The reduction in the 
effective tax rate reﬂects a change in the mix  
of taxable proﬁts and tax rates across the 
regions in which the enlarged Group holds  
its subsidiaries and operates its businesses, 
following the SCA Packaging acquisition in 
June 2012. The reduction in the effective tax 
rate is also partially due to a further reduction 
in the UK rate of corporate income tax 
(2012/13: 23.9 per cent; 2011/12:  
25.8 per cent). The tax credit on exceptional 
items (including discontinued operations) of 
£20.0 million resulted from the tax allowances 
for SCA Packaging acquisition costs of  
£0.9 million, SCA Packaging integration  
costs of £15.8 million and a tax credit of 
£3.3 million on other exceptional items. 
Reported proﬁt after tax from continuing 
operations after amortisation and  
exceptional items was £70.3 million 
(2011/12: £8.4 million).
Adjusted earnings per share were 17.4 pence 
(2011/12: 12.8 pence), an increase of  
36 per cent, despite the dilutive effect arising 
from the rights issue proceeds (£466.2 million) 
being raised ahead of the completion of the 
SCA Packaging acquisition in June 2012.
Dividend 
The proposed ﬁnal dividend is 5.5 pence 
(2011/12: 4.0 pence), giving a total  
dividend for the year of 8.0 pence (2011/12: 
5.9 pence). Dividend cover before amortisation  
and exceptional items was 2.2 times in 
2012/13 (2011/12: 2.2 times). 
Cash ﬂow
The Group’s cash ﬂow is shown in Table 1.
The Group generated free cash ﬂow of 
£270.4 million (2011/12: £94.5 million),  
a 186 per cent improvement, reﬂecting an 
increase in operating proﬁt and strong  
working capital management.
Despite increased volumes and higher  
input costs, strong control of working capital 
resulted in an inﬂow of £157.9 million 
(2011/12: £43.7 million). Our original  
target was to reduce average working capital 
to revenue to 5 per cent by 30 April 2014; 
we achieved this in the 2011/12 ﬁnancial 
year by delivering 4.9 per cent (two years 
ahead of schedule), and we have showed 
further improvement in 2012/13 by  
delivering 4.5 per cent.
Cash contributions into the Group’s pension 
schemes were £23.2 million in 2012/13 
(2011/12: £31.2 million), principally 
comprising £15.1 million in respect of the 
agreed contributions to the UK pension 
scheme deﬁcit.
Cash generated from operations was  
£503.3 million (2011/12: £225.5 million), 
a 123 per cent improvement.
Capital expenditure of £161.0 million 
(2011/12: £94.2 million) reﬂects our 
commitment to invest in processes and 
technologies to deliver future growth. Growth 
capital expenditure was £66.3 million 
(2011/12: £33.0 million) and capital 
expenditure was 143 per cent of depreciation.
Tax payments were £41.7 million (2011/12: 
£25.3 million), the increased payments 
resulting from the enlarged Group. Net interest 
paid of £34.6 million was £14.8 million 
higher than 2011/12, due to the ﬁnancing  
of the SCA Packaging acquisition. 
Cash dividend cover, deﬁned as free cash 
ﬂow divided by dividends declared for the 
year, was 3.7 times (2011/12: 1.9 times).
SCA Packaging acquisition costs of  
£31.6 million and integration costs of  
£52.9 million were paid during the year.  
The cash outﬂow in respect of other 
exceptional costs was £27.8 million 
(2011/12: £19.5 million). 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
The SCA Packaging acquisition in 2012/13 
resulted in an outﬂow of £1,281.0 million. A 
cash inﬂow of £50.8 million was generated 
from the remedy and other site disposals 
during the year (2011/12: £184.5 million 
principally relating to the Ofﬁce Products 
Wholesaling division disposal). 
Group net debt increased by £1,138.7 
million, principally due to the SCA  
Packaging acquisition.
Financial position
Shareholders’ funds of £1,084.9 million  
at 30 April 2013 have increased from 
£1,057.5 million at 30 April 2012, 
principally due to retained proﬁt for the year. 
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders (including 
discontinued operations) was £77.1 million 
(2011/12: £75.3 million) and dividends  
of £36.8 million (2011/12: £31.5 million) 
were paid during the year. In addition, 
actuarial losses of £72.8 million from the 
Group’s employee beneﬁt schemes were 
charged to reserves. Other items recognised 
directly in reserves include currency translation 
gains of £54.0 million, adverse movements  
on cash ﬂow hedges of £20.1 million and  
a related tax charge of £25.6 million. 
At 30 April 2013, the Group’s net debt  
was £817.0 million (2011/12: net cash  
of £321.7 million) principally due to the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging during the year. 
We expected to achieve a net debt to EBITDA 
ratio of less than 2 times by April 2014 and 
by delivering 1.97 times at 30 April 2013, 
we met our target a year early whilst still 
incurring capital expenditure well ahead  
of depreciation.
The Group complied with the covenants  
in its banking agreements. The Group’s 
ﬁnancial covenants for the syndicated 
committed bank facilities specify an EBITDA  
to net interest payable ratio of not less than 
4.5 times, a maximum ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA of 3.25 times and net assets to exceed 
£360 million. The covenant calculations 
exclude from the income statement exceptional 
items and any interest arising from the deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension schemes. The calculation of net 
assets excludes the net asset or liability arising 
from the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes.  
At 30 April 2013, the Group had substantial 
headroom under its covenants; the most 
sensitive covenant is net debt to EBITDA  
and this had an EBITDA headroom of  
£158.2 million at 30 April 2013.
Energy costs
Energy continued to be a signiﬁcant cost  
for the Group in 2012/13. The Group’s 
expenditure on gas, electricity and diesel 
increased from c. £126 million in 2011/12 
to c. £248 million in 2012/13. This  
97 per cent increase is principally the result  
of the SCA Packaging acquisition. The Group 
manages the risks associated with its purchases 
of energy through its Energy Procurement 
Group, which operates under the oversight  
of the Treasury Committee. The purpose of 
hedging energy costs with suppliers and 
ﬁnancial institutions is to reduce the volatility of 
energy costs and to provide the Group with a 
degree of certainty over future energy costs.
Capital structure and  
treasury management
The Group funds its operations from the 
following sources of capital: operating cash 
ﬂow, borrowing, shareholders’ equity and, 
where appropriate, disposals of non-core 
assets and businesses. The Group’s objective  
is to achieve a capital structure that results in 
an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing 
ﬂexibility in short and medium-term funding so 
as to accommodate material investments or 
acquisitions. The Group also aims to maintain 
a strong balance sheet and to provide 
continuity of ﬁnancing by having a range  
of maturities and borrowing from a variety  
of sources. 
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are  
to ensure sufﬁcient funds are available for the 
Group to carry out its strategy and to manage 
certain ﬁnancial risks to which the Group is 
exposed, details of which are provided in  
note 20 to the accounts. The Group’s treasury 
strategy is controlled through the Treasury 
Committee, which meets regularly and includes 
the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director, the Group Financial Controller, the 
Group Treasurer and the Group Tax Manager. 
* Continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional items.
1,336.9
1,759.3
1,969.4
3,669.3
10 11 12 13
Revenue
2012: £1,969.4m
£3 ,669 .3m
76.7
110.9
142.0
250.9
10 11 12 13
Operating proﬁt
*
2012: £142.0m
£250.9m
5.7
6.3
7.2
6.8
10 11 12 13
Return on sales
*
2012: 7.2%
6.8%
9.0
11.5
14.6
12.3
10 11 12 13
2012: 14.6%
12.3%
Return on average 
capital employed
*               33
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
The Group Treasury function operates in 
accordance with policies and procedures 
approved by the Board and controlled by 
the Group Treasurer. The function arranges 
funding for the Group, provides a service to 
operations and implements strategies for 
ﬁnancial risk management.
The Group regularly reviews the level of  
cash and debt facilities required to fund its 
activities. This involves preparing a business 
plan, determining the level of debt facilities 
required to fund the business, planning for 
repayments of debt at maturity and identifying 
an appropriate amount of headroom to 
provide a reserve against unexpected funding 
requirements. The Group’s borrowing facilities 
are shown in Table 2. At 30 April 2013, the 
Group’s committed borrowing facilities totalled 
c. £1.4 billion of which £517 million were 
undrawn. Total gross borrowings at 30 April 
2013 were £924.1 million. At 30 April 
2013, the Group’s committed borrowing 
facilities had a weighted-average maturity  
of 4.4 years (30 April 2012: 4.6 years). 
In August 2012, the Group reﬁnanced a 
€300 million bank term loan (due to mature in 
2015) with the proceeds from a $400 million 
private placement of debt to US institutions with 
an average maturity of nine years. In addition, 
in November 2012, the Group repaid  
$105 million and £25 million of the private 
placement debt issued in 2002 at its maturity.
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging, 
the Group has substantial investments in foreign 
currency assets of its subsidiary companies 
based overseas, in particular those whose 
functional currency is the euro. In addition, the 
Group’s ﬁnancial covenant ratios are exposed 
to the extent that earnings in foreign currency 
contribute to the Group’s total EBITDA. In order 
to hedge these exposures, the Group’s policy 
is to hedge EBITDA with a proportionate 
amount of net debt held in foreign currencies.
The Group’s foreign currency debt may be 
held either in the currency itself or through  
the use of cross-currency swaps. The Group 
applies hedge accounting under IAS 39, 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’, to hedges of net investments  
in foreign currency subsidiaries and records 
exchange differences arising on net 
investments and the related foreign  
currency borrowing directly in equity.
Impairment
When applying IAS 36, ‘Impairment of 
Assets’, the Group compares the carrying 
amounts of goodwill and intangible assets  
with the higher of their net realisable value  
and their value in use to determine whether  
an impairment exists. The value in use is 
calculated by discounting the future cash  
ﬂows expected to be generated by the assets 
or group of assets being tested for impairment. 
During April 2013 tests were undertaken to 
determine whether there had been any 
impairment to the balance sheet carrying 
values of goodwill and other intangible assets. 
The key assumptions behind the calculations 
are based on the regional long-term growth 
rates and a pre-tax discount rate of 9.5 per 
cent combined with the appropriate country 
risk premiums. No impairments were identiﬁed 
as a result of the testing. 
The net book value of goodwill and  
other intangibles at 30 April 2013 was  
£1,044.3 million (30 April 2012:  
£309.7 million).
Pensions
IAS 19, ‘Employee Beneﬁts’, requires the 
Group to make assumptions including, but not 
limited to, future asset returns, rates of inﬂation, 
discount rates and current and future life 
expectancies. The use of different assumptions 
could have a material effect on the accounting 
values of the relevant assets and liabilities, 
which in turn could result in a change to the 
cost of such liabilities as recognised in the 
income statement over time. The assumptions 
involved are subject to periodic review. 
The Group’s principal funded, deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension scheme is in the UK and is now 
closed to future accrual. The Group also 
operates various local post-retirement and  
other employee beneﬁt arrangements for 
overseas operations, as well as a small UK 
unfunded scheme. The aggregate gross assets 
of the schemes at 30 April 2013 were 
£931.5 million and the gross liabilities at 30 
April 2013 were £1,145.5 million, resulting 
in the recognition of a gross balance sheet 
deﬁcit of £214.0 million (30 April 2012: 
£104.2 million), a net deﬁcit of £157.9 
million (30 April 2012: £77.1 million)  
after a deferred tax asset of £56.1 million  
(30 April 2012: £27.1 million). 
A triennial valuation of the main UK scheme 
was carried out at 30 April 2010 at which 
point the Group agreed that cash contributions 
would be £14.8 million per annum, rising by 
2 per cent per annum for the remaining 10 
years, with a view to closing the deﬁcit within 
a 10 year recovery period. Cash contributions 
into the Group pension schemes were  
£23.2 million in 2012/13 (2011/12: 
£31.2 million), principally comprising  
£15.1 million in respect of the agreed 
contributions to the pension scheme deﬁcit  
(for the future ﬁnancing of the pension scheme).
The increase in the gross balance sheet  
deﬁcit of £109.8 million is principally 
attributable to a decrease in the discount rate. 
The main factor behind this reduction is the 
decline in corporate bond yields over the 
period, with investors seeking higher yields 
than those available on lower risk assets such 
as government bonds (which have been at 
all-time historic lows). This increase in demand 
has led to a narrowing of credit spreads which 
has reduced the overall yield available from 
corporate bonds, hence increased deﬁcits 
have been a common theme for all companies 
over the last 12 months. 
Steve Dryden
Group Finance Director
Table 2 – Borrowing facilities at 30 April 2013
Facility
Committed funds 
million Maturity
£ million  
equivalent
Private placement US$105 2014 69
Syndicated bank loan facility – Term Loan B €400 2016 339
Syndicated revolving credit facility £610 2016 610
Private placement US$95 2016 61
Private placement €59 2018 50
Private placement €59 2020 50
Private placement US$400 2022 257
Total 1,436 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Our principles and approach to  
corporate responsibility
At DS Smith we are committed to conducting 
our business in a responsible and sustainable 
manner, delighting our customers, creating 
value for our shareholders, and providing  
our employees with a safe and productive 
work place. 
Our core business is the design and 
manufacture of recycled packaging for 
consumer goods. We recognise that our 
businesses have a direct environmental impact 
through the running of our operations and also 
an indirect impact through our sourcing 
activities, and how our customers use  
and dispose of our products. 
Our corporate responsibility (CR) approach 
covers health and safety, the environment,  
our employees, and our communities. 
The Board considers risks to the Group’s  
short and long-term value arising from CR 
matters as part of its regular review of the  
key risks to the Group’s operations. It ensures 
that the Group has in place effective policies 
and systems for managing any signiﬁcant  
CR risks and it receives regular reports on 
performance. The Group Chief Executive  
is the Director responsible for CR matters  
and he reports to the Board on these. It is  
the responsibility of the Divisional Chief 
Executives to communicate and to apply  
the policies, to ensure compliance and to 
review procedures, taking account of local 
legislation and potential risks. 
The Group has a Workplace Malpractice 
Policy, under which employees may report  
in conﬁdence any perceived wrongdoing 
within the Group on matters relating to safety, 
the environment, unethical business conduct  
or breaches of Group policies, the law or 
other regulations. This policy is reinforced by  
a conﬁdential Employee Concern Helpline 
and e-mail facility. Any concerns reported  
are appropriately investigated. 
How DS Smith plays its part in  
a sustainable economy
Corrugated packaging produced by DS Smith 
has attractive environmental characteristics, 
being made from recycled raw material and 
being recyclable.
We work closely with our customers to reduce 
the carbon footprint of the packaging they 
require – and at the same time to save costs. 
We look at the cost and carbon impact of the 
whole supply chain, taking into consideration 
the transportation, wastage on the packing  
line, and the materials used in the packaging. 
DS Smith has been developing lightweight 
packaging solutions for some time. For 
example, we have developed a type of 
corrugated board, R-Flute
®
, which signiﬁcantly 
improves the carbon footprint in the supply 
chain. While it has similar strength properties  
to alternative types of corrugated board, it is  
20 per cent thinner. That means that 20 per 
cent more boxes can be ﬁtted in one lorry  
from our factory to that of our customer, so  
fewer lorry journeys are needed. This is a  
simple example of saving our customers cash 
and carbon in their supply chain. 
DS Smith Recycling is the largest collector  
and recycler of used paper and cardboard  
in the UK. We are different from our main 
competitors in the UK as, unlike them, we  
do not own landﬁll sites. Therefore customers  
of our recycling services know that our 
commitment lies in landﬁll diversion.
Corrugated packaging has good  
environmental characteristics and we  
see substantial opportunities to continue the 
expansion of its use as a substitute for other 
forms of packaging material.
Our bag-in-box technology is used for a  
wide range of products in substitution for  
rigid plastic containers, bottles, or other 
packaging formats for liquids. The cardboard 
box is readily recyclable, while the plastic 
content in the bag and tap is often signiﬁcantly 
less than the amount of material used in the 
production of an alternative plastic bottle.  
The beneﬁts continue through the supply chain 
as boxes of liquids can be packed in a more 
space-efﬁcient manner and the weight of the 
packaging is less – often making it cheaper  
and less energy intensive to transport. These 
beneﬁts of bag-in-box packaging have been 
independently veriﬁed by PIRA (the Paper and 
Board, Printing and Packaging Association)  
and are promoted to customers by our  
Plastics business.
A SUSTAINABLE 
APPROACH
Our vision is to become the leader in recycled packaging for 
consumer goods. The DS Smith business model is based on 
providing sustainable solutions for our stakeholders.
FTSE Group conﬁrms that DS Smith Plc 
has been independently assessed 
according to the FTSE4Good criteria, 
and has satisﬁed the requirements to 
become a constituent of the FTSE4Good 
Index Series. Created by the global 
index company FTSE Group, 
FTSE4Good is an equity index series 
that is designed to facilitate investment  
in companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility 
standards. Companies in the 
FTSE4Good Index Series have met 
stringent social and environmental 
criteria, and are positioned to  
capitalise on the beneﬁts of  
responsible business practice.
See more on page 19
INNOVATION
SERVICE
QUALITY
INNOVA V V T A A ION
QUALITY T T
PAPER
RECYCLING
PACKAGING
RETAILER RETA
PACKAGIN
G
PAPER
SUSTAINABLE 
SOLUTIONS               35
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
KEY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
PERFORMANCE MEASURES
This has been a transformational year for the Group following the acquisition and integration of SCA Packaging.  
We have made good progress across the Group in our four target categories which we see as fundamental to 
operating as a sustainable business. 
Vision Key performance measures 2012/13 actions & progress
Environmental: 
We aim to optimise our resource 
efﬁciency and minimise our 
environmental impact.
Each of our businesses has targets as part of  
their business plans to achieve the following:
Reducing CO
2
, water and landﬁll usage,  
relative to production, by 20 per cent over  
the 10 years to 2020.
• CO
2 
emissions per kg/tonnes down  
7.7 per cent. 
p p p p p p
KPI
• Water usage per m
3
/tonnes down  
3.4 per cent.
• Waste being sent to landﬁll per kg/tonnes 
down 6.8 per cent.
Employees: 
We seek to develop our employees  
to fulﬁl their potential.
We promote the alignment of our talent with  
our corporate strategy through communications, 
engagement and effective people management.
• Continued roll-out of the OWN IT! programme 
to new colleagues and to former SCA 
Packaging colleagues.
• Conducted an employee survey with  
87 per cent response rate.
• Appointment of Employee  
Communications Manager.
Health and Safety:
We seek to ensure the safety  
of our staff and others affected  
by our operations.
Health and safety is our top priority and is  
the ﬁrst item on the agenda in all senior 
operational meetings.
Reduction in Lost Time Accidents (LTAs).
Reduction in Accident Frequency Rates (AFR).
Reduction in accident severity rate.
• LTAs down 23 per cent in legacy DS Smith, 
with Group (including SCA Packaging) up  
29 per cent with a 48 per cent increase in  
the hours worked.
• AFR down 22 per cent in legacy DS Smith, 
with Group (including SCA Packaging) down 
13 per cent. KPI
• Accident severity rate down 8 per cent.
Community Involvement:
We seek to develop and  
maintain good relations with  
our local communities.
Charitable Foundation partnering with charities 
aligned with our activities and values.
• DS Smith seeks to focus its charitable activity 
on projects local to our operations that foster 
engagement with and between our employees 
and our communities.
• During the year the Foundation:
 – Supported an organisation in Bristol 
providing work placements for 
disadvantaged young people.
 – Supported an organisation in Yorkshire 
providing practical skills for young 
wheelchair users. 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued
ENVIRONMENT
One great example of how our innovative 
solutions have environmental as well as 
commercial beneﬁts, is the KAYPAL
®
MR 
project in France. This is a system which 
re-uses corrugated pallets that have  
been optimised for multi-layer picking 
operations, and connects the picking 
centres of our FMCG customers and  
the distribution centres of their retailers. 
This innovative solution enables our  
customers to reduce their carbon footprint  
as KAYPAL
®
MR replaces a traditional 
wooden pallet weighing 25 kilos with  
a corrugated pallet weighing only 3.5 kilos 
– a reduction of around 85 per cent;  
and space optimising features within the 
stackable pallets result in a reduction of up  
to 50 per cent in the number of truck loads 
required for reverse logistics.
Based on average delivery routes, this 
system has been shown to reduce Scope 3 
carbon emissions by 31 per cent per pallet 
compared to wooden pallets.
The environmental beneﬁts of KAYPAL
®
MR 
have been extremely well received by our 
customers in France and include key FMCG 
customers such as Unilever, P&G and Nestlé.
INNOVATION DRIVES SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainable development is at the heart 
of DS Smith’s business model, with our 
production of paper and corrugated 
packaging largely based on recycled 
material, and we continuously 
strive to improve our environmental 
performance. It is also vital for us to be 
able to offer packaging solutions that 
are not only commercially attractive, 
but also contribute to a sustainable 
development, and we place great 
emphasis on innovation and close  
co-operation with our customers.
Environmental management 
and regulation
The environmental performance and activities 
of the divisions are reviewed at the Group 
Environment Committee, which is chaired  
by the Group Chief Executive.
During 2012, the environmental governance 
structure was reviewed in the light of the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging. In order to 
reﬂect the changes in organisational structure,  
a Sustainability Governance structure has  
been proposed, to cover the three pillars  
of Sustainability: Social, Economic and 
Environmental performance.
We have a policy that each of our sites 
implements an environmental management 
system (EMS) which is appropriate to its activity. 
For those sites where we have assessed the 
activity as material, we have pursued external 
certiﬁcation to the ISO 14001 standard. For 
lower impact sites, we adopt a simpliﬁed EMS, 
appropriate to their lower level of potential 
environmental impact.
No major environmental incidents or  
incidents reportable to local or national 
authorities, or incidents potentially resulting  
in legal prosecution have been reported for  
the period of this report.
A new baseline
With the acquisition of SCA Packaging  
we have doubled the size of our business. 
Following this major transformation, we have 
examined how we can leverage our new 
found size and scope, and operate in the most 
efﬁcient way, not just ﬁnancially, but also from 
an environmental and social perspective.
In the past year, we have learnt a lot from  
each other and the combined expertise and 
knowledge of DS Smith and SCA Packaging 
have already made us a stronger company.  
As the Group grows, this is accompanied  
by an increased responsibility towards the 
environment and over the past year we have 
established common goals and a common 
reporting structure, in order to effectively 
manage and follow up on our environmental 
commitments in a fact-based and 
veriﬁable manner.
Three environment targets
Our environmental targets are clear and 
concise. Related to production, we aim to:
• Reduce our CO 2
 
emissions from fossil fuels  
by 20 per cent over the 10 years to 2020.
• Reduce our water usage in our paper mills  
by 20 per cent over the 10 years to 2020.
• Reduce the amount of production rejects sent 
to landﬁll by 20 per cent over the 10 years  
to 2020.
For each of these targets, we have established 
an action plan to deliver the stated objectives:
• Our CO 2
 
emissions will be reduced by a 
combination of increased energy efﬁciency, 
and a switch from oil to gas and, in a 
second step, to renewable fuels. 
• Our water use targets will be met by moving 
towards more closed water systems at some 
of our paper mills.
• A greater proportion of production rejects  
will be retrieved as materials and energy 
recovery, rather than be sent to landﬁll.
The fulﬁlment of each individual target will have 
a positive impact on our energy use, and will 
make a tangible contribution to our proﬁtability.
Activities in 2012/13
Although 2012/13 was dominated by the 
integration projects to forge the enlarged 
Group, a number of environmental projects 
were completed, including projects relating  
to energy efﬁciency, reductions to landﬁll, 
conversion to renewable energy resources  
and reduction in water usage.
Energy efﬁciency 
Over the past year we have conducted  
30 pump audits at our paper mills and  
have identiﬁed a number of opportunities for 
improving efﬁciencies, which we are currently 
evaluating. Another example of an energy 
efﬁciency project is from our plant in 
Aschaffenburg, in Germany, where we are 
using recovered energy from cooling water  
to heat the building. One area which has  
great potential for the future is LED lighting,  
and we are evaluating opportunities to install                37
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
LED lights in both ofﬁce and warehouse 
environments. At our corrugated plant in 
Mariestad, Sweden, substantial energy  
savings have been achieved through a  
new bridge enclosure, which maintains the 
temperature around the paperboard throughout 
the entire production process. This investment 
has not only achieved a much more efﬁcient 
use of energy, it has also enhanced the product 
quality, reduced waste and improved the 
working environment.
Switching to non-fossil fuels
In 2012/13, we connected our plant in 
Värnamo, Sweden, to the local district heating, 
which uses renewable biomass energy. At our 
plant in Gent in Belgium, we are in the process 
of replacing oil with natural gas for 
steam generation.
Reducing water usage
Over the past year there have been several 
initiatives to reduce water use. At the De Hoop 
mill in the Netherlands, new ﬂow meters were 
installed to improve monitoring of water use  
in the production process. The new meters 
provide exact control of the water volumes,  
and give immediate feedback if they deviate 
from expected levels, making it possible to take 
corrective action as soon as a problem occurs. 
As a result, water use has been reduced by  
11 per cent.
At our paper mill in Kemsley, UK, we are also 
working on ways of reducing water use. During 
2012/13, the paper machines were audited 
to make sure that leakages were identiﬁed and 
stopped, and machine operators were 
provided with training to ensure swift corrective 
measures are taken when leakage is identiﬁed. 
In 2013/14, we are planning to install a new 
pump system which will recycle efﬂuent water 
back into the production process. Both these 
measures will contribute to a substantial 
reduction of water use in 2013/14.
Our paper mill in Lucca, Italy, is situated in an 
area with a limited supply of fresh water. This 
has driven extremely effective water use: for 
brown paper production, the mill uses 3.8 
cubic meters of water per tonne of paper 
compared to the European industry average  
of 7 cubic meters. We are looking at ways  
to transfer this expertise across all of our mills.
Minimising production rejects to landﬁll
As a result of a series of trials conducted at  
our paper mill at Kemsley, UK, last year we 
have identiﬁed measures to separate rejects  
in order to divert discarded plastics for RDF 
(refuse-derived fuel), and to recover metals for 
recycling. Implementation is now planned  
on a broader scale in 2013/14.
Our paper mill in Lucca, Italy, generates 
30,000 tonnes of rejects each year, mainly 
consisting of plastics and unusable ﬁbre.  
The mill had previously invested in a dryer to 
extract moisture in the ﬁbre in order to prepare 
the rejects for incineration. As a result, no 
production rejects are now sent to landﬁll,  
and as much as 95 per cent of the rejected 
volumes are used for energy production at 
external incineration plants.
The way forward: resource efﬁciency 
in all aspects
The synergies and knowledge transfer that 
accompanied the integration of DS Smith  
and SCA Packaging have provided the 
impetus for a Group-wide continuous 
excellence programme which seeks to transfer 
best practice throughout all of our operations.
This approach extends to our suppliers,  
and we have put in place measures to  
ensure responsible sourcing of raw materials  
by placing the same demands on our suppliers  
as we place on ourselves.
Looking ahead
Over the next two years, we will concentrate 
our efforts on three areas to ensure that we 
continue to deliver on our environmental,  
social, and commercial ambitions: 
• More efﬁcient use of energy in our 
manufacturing and at our facilities. 
• More efﬁcient transport solutions.
• An enhanced supplier standard to ensure that 
all our suppliers meet our strict environmental, 
safety and social standards.
Environmental performance indicators
Our operations have grown signiﬁcantly in size 
as a result of the acquisition of SCA Packaging 
leading the Group to review how we operate 
in the environmental area.
Changes have been made as a result of 
recommendations made by Bureau Veritas 
during last year’s process. We have started  
to collect environmental data on a calendar 
year basis to align with external stakeholders’ 
requests for benchmarking purposes. A new 
data collection system has been introduced 
and has been utilised for the ﬁrst time to collect 
2012 calendar year data.
The 2012 calendar year environmental data 
will form the new baseline for our environmental 
performance targets on CO 2 emissions, water 
management and waste sent to landﬁll in 
relation to production levels. 
The data for calendar year 2011 has  
been estimated and shows an aggregation  
for the legacy DS Smith and SCA Packaging 
businesses. This has been done in order to give  
an indication of performance, relative to our 
targets, over the past year.
Our Paper and Packaging businesses account 
for more than 95 per cent of the environmental 
impact relating to the three target areas; CO 2 
emissions, water management and waste 
to landﬁll.
The table of environmental data displays  
the data for calendar year 2012 together  
with the estimated data for calendar year 
2011 (see page 38). The reduction numbers 
should be seen as directional indicators and 
not as absolute reduction numbers. On this 
basis the total CO 2 emissions in relation to 
production decreased by 7.7 per cent which 
partly reﬂects the higher proportion of energy 
produced internally in our own combined heat 
and power plants. 
Water discharges decreased by 3.4 per  
cent supported by activities mainly in the 
paper mills. 
Waste to landﬁll decreased by 6.8 per  
cent, predominantly through activities in our 
paper mills which have been re-using and 
recovering more of the material previously  
sent to landﬁll and more material being  
used for energy production.
During the year, we again employed 
independent consultants, Bureau Veritas,  
to review our environmental data collection  
and reporting process in order to ensure the 
robustness and accuracy of the Group’s 
environmental performance indicators. This 
review concluded that overall there was a 
good level of process control and reporting  
at the sites but identiﬁed some areas for 
improvement which are being considered  
and, as appropriate, implemented (see  
page 38 for the Veriﬁcation Statement  
from Bureau Veritas). 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued
Veriﬁcation Statement from  
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd
Bureau Veritas has been 
commissioned by DS Smith  
for the ﬁfth year to provide 
independent veriﬁcation of  
the environmental performance indicators 
presented on this page of its 2013 Annual 
Report. The objective of the veriﬁcation is to 
reassure DS Smith’s stakeholders that the data  
is accurate, reliable and a fair representation  
of the environmental performance of the  
DS Smith Group.
DS Smith has provided access to the 
documentation and data required to  
undertake the veriﬁcation and Bureau Veritas  
is conﬁdent that no material of relevance has 
been withheld. The veriﬁcation is to a limited 
level of assurance. For the CO 2 emissions  
data, veriﬁcation was undertaken in 
accordance with the main requirements  
of ISO 14064:2006. 
The veriﬁcation involved document review,  
and inspection of internal and external records, 
interrogation of databases and associated 
management and reporting systems. This 
process included visits to representative 
operational sites.
Based on our veriﬁcation activities it is our 
opinion that:
• The reported data provides a fair and 
accurate representation of environmental 
performance across the DS Smith Group  
for the deﬁned period. 
• There are no signiﬁcant omissions which 
could affect stakeholders’ ability to make 
informed judgements on DS Smith’s 
environmental performance.
• There is no evidence that the GHG 
assertions made by DS Smith in its 2013 
Carbon Disclosure Project Investor Response:
 – are not reliable and free from material 
error, mis-statement or bias; and
 – are not a fair representation of the GHG 
data and information.
A full veriﬁcation statement including the 
methodology, basis for the opinion, additional 
recommendations, limitations and a statement 
of Bureau Veritas’s independence can be  
found on the DS Smith Plc website at  
www.dssmith.uk.com/corporate-responsibility/
veriﬁcation-statement
ENVIRONMENT continued
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2012 2011*
Production – ktonnes 5,322 5,482
Energy consumption
1
Fuels (biogen) – Tjfuel 1,843 1,841
Fuels (fossil) – Tjfuel 20,272 23,420
Electricity grid supply – GWhr 855 967
Carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions
2 
Scope 1 (direct) emissions – ktonnes 1,231 1,370
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions – ktonnes 283 320
Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions – ktonnes 1,514 1,689
Water usage
Million cubic metres – (mm
3
) 16.0 17.0
Waste management
3
Waste landﬁll – tonnes 67,889 74,990
Waste recovery – tonnes 193,609 269,042
Waste hazardous – tonnes 1,194 659
2012 2011
Speciﬁc measure
CO2 fossil – kg/tonnes 231.2 250.0
CO2 fossil grid – kg/tonnes 53.2 58.4
Total CO2 fossil – kg/tonnes 284.4 308.1
Water discharge – m
3
/tonnes 3.0 3.1
Waste to landﬁll – kg/tonnes 12.8 13.7
Methodology: 
The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines speciﬁed by the Global 
Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is currently practicable. The ﬁgures 
reported above include data from the Group’s wholly-owned or majority-owned operations. The methodology used is new  
to reﬂect the enlarged Group.
*    The data for calendar year 2011 has been estimated and shown as an aggregation for the legacy DS Smith and SCA 
Packaging businesses.
1. The energy ﬁgures relate to the usage of all fuels used in ﬁxed installations on the Group’s sites.
2. The CO2 emissions calculated using the energy data, as deﬁned above are:
Fossil fuels kg/GJ (LHV) 
Natural gas (NG) 56 
Liquiﬁed natural gas (LNG) 56 
Liquiﬁed petroleum gas (LPG) 65
Light fuel oil (LFO) 74 
Medium fuel oil (MFO) 76 
Heavy fuel oil (HFO)  78 
  The factors used for converting electricity usage are the national ﬁgures for each country in which the Group operates, and 
are sourced from the IEA (International Energy Agency). These factors therefore reﬂect the mix of fuels used for electricity 
generation in each country. 
  As required by the GHGP , Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions are reported separately.
  Scope 1 (direct) emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations.
  Scope 2 (indirect) emissions are those arising from bought-in energy (i.e. electricity or steam) where the combustion has 
been carried out by another company. 
  Scope 3 emissions, from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Group’s products and 
services, are not included.
3.  The waste ﬁgures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external 
sources for recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations.               39
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Our paper mill in Lucca, Italy, which  
was formerly part of SCA Packaging, has 
successfully achieved the Group’s ultimate 
target of zero Lost Time Accidents in the 
past year. This is particularly signiﬁcant as 
it is the ﬁrst time Lucca Mill has achieved 
this target in its 43 year history. This is 
testament to the level of communication, 
engagement and training across all 
employees at the mill, where workers  
and management are actively involved in 
discussions to assess potential Health and 
Safety risks. 
Activities
The safety of our staff and those affected  
by our operations is our highest priority. In 
2012/13 the Group continued to improve its 
safety performance. Our businesses benchmark 
their safety performance internally and through 
the use of external data. Information on safety 
performance, including statistics related to our 
key performance indicators (KPIs), is reported  
to the Board quarterly. The overall goal is to 
achieve zero accidents and our divisions set 
interim targets against their KPIs, which reﬂect 
the nature of their business and their 
previous performance.
On 30 June 2012, the Group acquired SCA 
Packaging, whose historic health and safety 
record has been broadly in line with that of the 
legacy DS Smith business in both approach 
and results. However, their smaller operations, 
employing around a third of their total 
workforce, were not included in their statistics 
and we have worked very hard to gain full 
visibility of the health and safety performance 
across the whole of SCA Packaging. This 
enables effective deployment of resources to 
drive further improvements, through training and 
the roll-out of common safety practices in each 
of their sites, along with making improvements 
throughout the Group as part of our continuing 
programme. The statistics below include SCA 
Packaging from November 2012 onwards, 
once common reporting deﬁnitions had been 
introduced and full reporting achieved across 
all SCA Packaging sites. We also show the 
statistics for the legacy DS Smith business which 
demonstrate the signiﬁcant improvement in the 
underlying performance.
Health and Safety performance
In 2012/13, the inclusion of SCA Packaging 
led to an increase of 29 per cent in Lost Time 
Accidents (LTAs) against a 48 per cent increase 
in hours worked. However, for the legacy  
DS Smith business we achieved a reduction  
of 23 per cent in LTAs (with LTAs deﬁned as 
accidents that result in one shift or more of 
working time being lost). With regard to the 
accident frequency rate (AFR), which measures 
LTAs in proportion to the number of hours 
worked, for the Group as a whole there was  
a 13 per cent reduction in the AFR, and for the 
legacy DS Smith business, we saw a reduction 
of 22 per cent. For the Group as a whole there 
was an 8 per cent improvement in the severity 
rate, which measures the hours lost as a result 
of accidents as a percentage of the total hours 
worked, although for the legacy DS Smith 
business there was a marginal increase of  
2 per cent. The improvements in the Group’s 
safety record reﬂect the leadership shown by 
the Group’s managers across the enlarged 
business and the ongoing commitment of our 
employees to working safely. As a Group we 
remain resolute in our determination to realise  
a zero accident culture and to continue to build 
on the progress we have made to date.
The Group’s progress towards a zero accident 
culture is evidenced by the improving trend in 
our legacy DS Smith sites with 51 per cent 
having no LTAs in 2012/13 (44 per cent in 
2011/12). For the six month period from  
1 November 2012, where we have full 
reporting across all the former SCA Packaging 
sites, 65 per cent of sites had no LTAs whilst  
77 per cent of legacy DS Smith sites had no 
LTAs over the same period. In the Group’s 
employee engagement survey, 85 per cent  
of respondents agreed that health and safety 
was taken seriously at their workplace.
Management systems
The Group has a well-established safety audit 
programme conducted by internal specialists 
and external consultants. These audits are used 
to ensure sites’ consistent adherence to safety 
standards and to investigate possible areas of 
concern. The resulting action plans set a clear 
pathway for improvement.
All accidents are investigated to ensure we 
learn from these incidents and take steps to 
prevent a recurrence. The beneﬁts of also 
investigating situations that might have resulted 
in an accident (near misses) is clearly proven 
and the practice is well established within the 
DS Smith business. Embedding this approach 
within all areas of SCA Packaging is a priority 
for 2013/14. In addition to focusing on 
speciﬁc risks, through techniques of risk 
assessment and root cause analysis, the  
Group also undertakes extensive safety training 
programmes at all levels of the organisation.
All accidents and situations that might have 
resulted in an accident are investigated to 
ensure we learn from these incidents and  
take steps to prevent a recurrence. In addition  
to focusing on speciﬁc risks, through techniques  
of risk assessment and root cause analysis, the 
Group also undertakes extensive safety training 
programmes at all levels of the organisation.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
HEALTH AND SAFETY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2012/13 2011/12
Lost time accidents for the Group  
(number of accidents resulting in lost time of any one shift or more) 164 127
Lost time accidents for legacy DS Smith  
(number of accidents resulting in lost time of any one shift or more) 98 127
Accident frequency rate for the Group  
(number of lost time accidents per million hours worked) 6.01 6.88
Accident frequency rate for legacy DS Smith  
(number of lost time accidents per million hours worked) 5.39 6.88
Accident severity rate (working hours lost as a result of  
accidents as a percentage of total hours worked) 0.19 0.21
Safety is our highest priority. In 
2012/13, we have made further 
strong progress in what has been a 
transformational year, where we have 
doubled the size of our business with 
the acquisition of SCA Packaging. 
Over this period we have improved 
our safety performance in each of our 
three Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
ACHIEVING TARGETS 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
We believe that a clear set of values and 
behaviours, owned and lived by all our 
employees, can make a fundamental 
difference to how they feel and go about  
their work.
DS Smith is founded on the  
following values:
BE CARING 
We take pride in what we do and care  
about our customers, our people and the 
world around us.
BE CHALLENGING 
We are not afraid to constructively 
challenge each other and ourselves  
to ﬁnd a better way forward.
BE TRUSTED 
We can always be trusted to deliver  
on our promises.
BE RESPONSIVE 
We seek new ideas and understanding 
and are quick to react to opportunities.
BE TENACIOUS 
We get things done.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued
Our culture
DS Smith believes that open two-way 
communication within the Group,  
engagement of all employees in the business, 
and the alignment of management behaviours 
to our values are critical to the overall success 
of the business. In the last year, we have seen 
a huge transformation across the Group, as 
we welcome our colleagues from SCA 
Packaging and introduce them to DS Smith 
and our shared culture and values.
We have been running our DS Smith OWN 
IT! programme for some time now with the  
aim of achieving a common culture across the 
Group. Our OWN IT! programme provides  
a framework for a shared vocabulary and way 
of working between all DS Smith colleagues. 
These expected behaviours are communicated 
through our ﬁve common values: DS Smith 
employees are caring, challenging, trusted, 
responsive and tenacious. These values clearly 
draw on the strengths that are already present 
within DS Smith but also represent the common 
standards required of each employee in order 
to realise our vision. The DS Smith Story, 
embedded within OWN IT!, is an aid for 
communicating the vision, values and strategic 
goals of the business to all employees. OWN 
IT! is designed to engage our colleagues, 
realise their potential, and enable everyone  
to take responsibility for their contribution to the 
business. The programme has continued to 
develop following the completion of the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging and has 
subsequently been rolled out to all new  
DS Smith businesses. 
Integration of the EWCs
Also as part of the integration of SCA 
Packaging, the European Works Councils 
(EWC) of SCA Packaging and DS Smith  
were brought together under one agreement  
in March 2013. The single combined EWC 
now forms a vital channel for open two-way 
communication within the Group. The purpose 
of the EWC is to engage the employees of  
DS Smith and provide a forum for pan-
European information and consultation 
regarding DS Smith’s strategy and policy.
Employee engagement survey
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging, 
and in order to continue to improve two-way 
communications, we ran our second  
Group-wide employee survey in October 
EMPLOYEES 
DS Smith employees are skilled, 
dedicated and hardworking. We  
are engaging with our employees  
to deliver the Group strategy  
and realise their true potential. 
Following the acquisition of SCA 
Packaging, we now have around 
20,000 employees across the Group.
2012 and achieved a response rate of  
87 per cent (up from the 79 per cent response 
rate achieved in the ﬁrst survey in 2010).  
The purpose of the survey was to understand  
better the views and opinions of all employees 
regarding the business, their role, their 
manager, and their working environment.  
As a result of the OWN IT! programme,  
75 per cent of respondents in the 2012  
survey now say that the values have been 
clearly communicated and 79 per cent  
feel that they provide clear direction for  
their behaviour. 
The DS Smith Group is also committed, as  
a minimum, to meeting the labour rights and 
legislation requirements in each of the countries 
in which it operates; in practice the Group 
often exceeds the local and international 
requirements. As DS Smith’s operations are 
almost entirely located in member countries  
of the OECD, human rights matters are not 
perceived as a signiﬁcant Group risk.
OUR VALUES
75 per cent of our colleagues around the Group believe our 
values are clearly communicated.
79 per cent have told us that the Group’s values provide 
guidance for their behaviour.
Leadership
75%
20%
5%
64%
19%
9%
2012 2010
Unfavourable
Neutral
Favourable
79%
17%
4%
76%
15%
9%
2012 2010
Unfavourable
Neutral
Favourable               41
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
DELIVERING THE DS SMITH STORY
The OWN IT! programme has enabled 
newly combined teams to establish their 
leadership, connect with new colleagues, 
and to deﬁne how disparate divisions and 
locations connect to Group strategic goals. 
As part of OWN IT!, delivery of the  
DS Smith story has been accompanied  
by illustrative stories that recognise and 
celebrate the achievements of individuals 
and teams. These success stories help to 
build pride and belief in the Group and 
identify examples of best practice. Whilst 
the DS Smith story aims to engage and 
excite employees in what we want to 
achieve as a business, the wider OWN IT! 
programme also acts to realise the potential 
of our people by enabling them to own their 
part of the story. 
Each and every team in DS Smith will be 
engaged in interactive meetings focused on  
a local goal that links to one of the strategic 
goals. These meetings seek small yet 
signiﬁcant steps to work more efﬁciently, 
collaborate more effectively, use or develop 
latent potential or learn from our past success 
to improve the business. Many of these 
interactive meetings have already begun and 
have yielded some signiﬁcant results in their 
early stages. The following are a sample of 
case studies from around the Group:
• At our Packaging site in Bristol, UK, 
management looked to improve quality  
by focusing attention on Defect Parts Per 
Million (DPPM); the entire workforce was 
engaged in discussions around what action 
or behaviour each individual could own 
in the effort to reduce defects. As a result, 
the DPPM rate has gone from over 
2,000 DPPM to a year-to-date average 
of less than 600 DPPM. 
• In our Packaging site in Sud-Est France, 
the installation of new equipment that 
would replace two different machines 
would historically have been met with 
uncertainty and fear. By using OWN IT! 
to connect the change to Group strategy, 
employees have been involved in the 
process and it has been well accepted. 
• At our Packaging site in Louth, UK,  
active discussions on working capital  
and inventory reductions with a wider 
group of employees have resulted in 
savings based on transport and  
inventory of £100,000.
• OWN IT! is resulting in a more 
committed workforce. At our Recycling 
depot in Keynsham, UK, an operational 
crisis was averted when a major piece  
of equipment broke down: although  
the depot was only running at 50 per 
cent capacity, the fact that colleagues 
volunteered to do extra shifts resulted  
in no detrimental impact on customers. 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
OPEN DAYS
As part of our community relations and 
building engagement of employees,  
DS Smith operating sites have begun to 
open their doors through a series of Open 
Days. A typical Open Day will see the 
community, family and friends of 
employees being invited to visit a DS 
Smith site to learn about our products and 
innovations, and make new connections 
with DS Smith colleagues, families and 
friends. The Open Days are an 
opportunity to inspire the next generation 
of engineers and innovators. They also 
allow us to educate and share DS Smith’s 
commitment to the environment and to 
creating sustainable products and 
energy-friendly supply chains.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued
DS Smith seeks to make a positive contribution 
to our communities and build a reputation as  
a good neighbour and employer.
Developing and maintaining good relations  
in the local communities in which we operate 
is important to us. Our businesses work closely 
with local schools and colleges to give 
opportunities for training, mentoring and  
work experience placements helping pupils  
to learn about industry and business. The 
Group is involved in a wide range of other 
community activities ranging from encouraging 
staff fundraising for local and national charities, 
sponsorship of local community projects  
or sports teams and provision of adult  
skills training. 
We are committed to making a positive 
difference in our communities, working with 
local partners and supporting the active 
involvement of our employees. Our community 
engagement strategy is closely aligned to our 
CR areas and tailored to the needs of our  
local communities.
Each year we contribute to the local 
communities in which we operate through:
•  Direct investment in community projects  
and partnerships. 
• Time volunteered by our employees.
• Giving in kind.
To make the greatest impact on our 
communities we focus our charitable giving  
in two areas aligned with the activities and 
values of the business, through the DS Smith 
Charitable Foundation. These are to provide 
support to charities involved in either (1) issues 
related to the environment and conservation or 
(2) opportunities to support people into work. 
Application forms for organisations seeking 
funding are available on our corporate website 
(www.dssmith.uk.com/corporate-
responsibility/ds-smith-charitable-foundation). 
During the year, the Foundation has helped  
to support, among others, an organisation  
in Bristol providing work placements for 
disadvantaged young people and an 
organisation in Yorkshire providing practical 
skills to enable young wheelchair users to  
gain independence.
The Foundation is seeking to partner with  
a charity (or charities) in one or both of the  
two areas outlined above. Last summer 
employees were asked to recommend charities 
whose work supported one of the areas of 
focus. Applications are being reviewed to 
select the organisation most closely aligned 
with DS Smith’s objectives for giving and which 
will give DS Smith employees an opportunity  
to get directly involved and donate their time. 
The selected charity will also receive multi-year 
ﬁnancial support provided by the DS Smith 
Charitable Foundation.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 
DS Smith has established a charitable 
foundation to support the work of 
charities aligned with our activities  
and values.               43
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
The Risk Committee
Responsible for the detailed analysis of risks and  
the implementation of proposed plans
The Risk Committee
The Group Management Team
Responsible for making recommendations to the  
Board and for proposing risk mitigation plans
The Group Management Team
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group maintains rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its risks.
2012/13 has been a transformational period for the Group, 
in which we have doubled the size of the business with the acquisition  
of SCA Packaging. During this period we have continued to monitor 
closely the various risks we face, taking the appropriate steps to mitigate 
these risks. A Group Head of Risk has been appointed to ensure full 
consideration is given to this critical process.
The Group has various risks, both external and internal, which could 
have a material impact on its performance. The Group’s exposure is 
mitigated to some extent by the range of geographies and markets 
served that constitute the business of the Group, and by the broad 
customer base. The principal Group-wide risks, their impact on the 
Group and how we mitigate those risks, are set out below. 
There are further references to risks faced by the Group in the Financial 
Review, Corporate Governance section and in the Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of this report. The Group seeks to 
mitigate insurable risks through an insurance programme that covers 
property and liability risks where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
How risk is managed at DS Smith
The Board
Overall responsibility
KEY RISKS
Dependence on the UK, continental European and other global economic conditions
Impact Mitigation
The demand for packaging will vary according to the economic  
climate in which the Group operates, in particular the UK and 
continental Europe. This is particularly true of customers outside the 
FMCG sector, where purchases are more discretionary in nature. The 
impact of the ongoing slow-down in these regions on the operations of 
the business is difﬁcult to predict and could potentially lead to a decline 
in demand for packaging products. There is no visibility on when the 
current uncertain economic outlook will improve. 
DS Smith seeks to focus on supplying packaging to FMCG  
customers who, because they supply the consumer with grocery and 
home care products, tend to show more resilient volumes compared  
to discretionary purchases. In the event of a sustained fall in demand, 
the Group would take mitigating action to protect its proﬁtability,  
as set out on page 45. 
Availability and volatile pricing of raw materials
Impact Mitigation
In 2012/13 the Group spent c. £1.7 billion on purchasing paper, 
plastics and other raw materials. The Group also spent c. £248 million 
on energy. These costs have increased substantially over the prior year, 
predominantly as a result of the acquisition of SCA Packaging, but do 
also reﬂect underlying price increases. To date the Group has largely 
recovered these costs in pricing, typically with the usual three to 
six-month delay depending on the business. For the former SCA 
Packaging business, the contract lengths vary between three and 12 
months and consequently it could take a little longer to recover price 
increases. In the event that, due to competitor behaviour or other factors, 
DS Smith were unable to recover further price increases on a similar 
time-scale, the proﬁtability of the Group would be reduced. 
The Group is seeking to improve the speed with which we are 
contractually able to recover input costs, by bringing the UK and  
the former SCA Packaging contract structures, typically with six-month 
price-review periods, in line with our legacy DS Smith continental 
Europe operations which operate on a three-month price review 
structure. We also seek to differentiate our packaging through  
a focus on adding value to our customers’ supply chains by focusing  
on service, quality and innovation. A description of our exposure to 
energy costs speciﬁcally is given later in this Risk Management section. 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
RISK MANAGEMENT continued
KEY RISKS continued
Strategy implementation and acquisition risk
Impact Mitigation
The Group has a strategy to become the leading supplier of recycled 
packaging in consumer goods. It aims to achieve this through a 
combination of cost control, improved procurement processes and 
through organic investment and acquisition. On 30 June 2012  
DS Smith completed the acquisition of SCA Packaging, where we 
originally identiﬁed targeted cost synergies of €75 million and capital 
savings of €40 million, both to be achieved over three years. We  
have successfully delivered €40 million of cost synergies and €120 
million of cash synergies in the ﬁrst year, and we have subsequently 
increased our targets to €120 million for cost synergies and €150 
million for cash synergies. Were the Group not able to implement its 
savings in full or were the Group not able to ﬁnd further suitable 
acquisition targets available at prices that enable the Group to achieve 
its strategic return on capital targets, or were the Group unable to fund 
such acquisition or investment on acceptable terms or to integrate the 
acquired businesses effectively, this could curtail the delivery of the 
Group’s strategy and negatively impact the Group’s ﬁnancial returns.
The management team of DS Smith has been strengthened  
with additional resource, both from within the Group and externally, 
dedicated to operational efﬁciency, procurement, acquisition and 
integration activities. There is considerable experience of this work 
within the senior team, gained both within the Group and from  
their previous roles. 
The Group also receives advice from external parties. In addition,  
the bank facility headroom has increased and the Group is also 
considering alternative ﬁnancing sources.
Restrictions due to level of indebtedness
Impact Mitigation
During the year, the Group completed the acquisition of  
SCA Packaging, substantially increasing the level of net debt. At  
30 April 2013, the Group had net debt of £817 million. Were  
events, either speciﬁc to DS Smith, or to the ﬁnancial systems externally, 
to mean that capital was not available at competitive rates, this could 
have a material impact on the proﬁtability of the Group. A one 
percentage point change in the interest paid by the Group could 
increase interest costs by c. £8 million. The Group’s debt ﬁnancing 
arrangements require the Group to dedicate a substantial proportion  
of operating cash ﬂow to make payments on the debt, and contain 
certain restrictions on the Group, including among other things the 
ability to take on further borrowings or make disposals.
The average term of committed borrowing facilities is 4.4 years and  
72 per cent of the Group’s debt is held at ﬁxed rates of interest for a 
period of 12 months or more. The Group sources its debt ﬁnance from 
a mixture of private placements provided by institutional debt investors 
and bank debt from a syndicate of 15 banks. The counterparty risk  
is carefully monitored such that the failure of one lender would not 
materially impact on the Group’s access to capital. Cash deposits  
are placed with institutions with a Standard and Poor’s credit rating  
of A-minus or above. In countries where this is not possible, deposits  
are held with strong local banks.
Please refer to the Financial Review section of this Annual Report for  
a description of our ﬁnancing arrangements.               45
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
The funding position of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
Impact Mitigation
The Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes’ valuations are sensitive 
to a number of key factors: the value of the assets, inﬂation, the discount 
rate used to calculate the schemes’ liabilities (based on corporate bond 
yields) and the mortality assumptions for the members of the scheme. 
The valuation of the Group’s various pension schemes at 30 April 
2013, which now also includes responsibility for the deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension obligations arising from the acquisition of SCA Packaging,  
was a deﬁcit of £202.4 million, for which the UK scheme makes up 
the largest proportion. While the UK scheme is now closed to future 
accrual, changes in these assumptions could mean that the deﬁcit 
increases further. 
On 30 April 2011 the Group’s UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme 
closed to future accrual. This decision was taken by the trustees in light 
of the growing deﬁcit of the scheme and the trustees’ responsibility to 
safeguard the accrued beneﬁts to existing members. The Group also 
reached agreement with the trustees for a proﬁle of future payments to 
repay the deﬁcit, being annual payments of £14.8 million starting in 
2011/12, increasing by 2 per cent per annum, for 10 years.
Environmental risks
Impact Mitigation
Were a material environmental incident to occur at a DS Smith site,  
this could result in material ﬁnancial costs and reputational damage  
that could undermine our commercial position as a provider of 
environmental solutions. New regulations relating to environmental 
standards and to climate change and CO 2 emissions can give rise  
to signiﬁcant additional costs of compliance.
As set out in the Corporate Responsibility review section of this Annual 
Report, the Group has detailed processes in place at all sites to ensure 
that, as a minimum, we comply with all relevant environmental rules  
and regulations.
Fall in demand
Impact Mitigation
The proﬁtability of the Group is sensitive to volume, the mix of sales  
and product pricing. A fall in demand could arise due to competitive 
action, product substitution, changes in consumer preferences or overall 
decline in the macroeconomic environment. A 5 per cent reduction in 
corrugated packaging volumes across the Group would theoretically 
result in a fall in Group operating proﬁt by around £50 million, to the 
extent not mitigated by cost control.
In the event of falling demand, the Group would take prompt action  
to address its cost base. Further, the strategy of the Group is to focus  
on developing packaging for FMCG as this sector has historically 
shown substantially less volatility in demand during periods of  
economic downturn than industrial users of packaging.
OTHER RISKS
Competition in the paper market and the corrugated packaging market
Impact Mitigation
DS Smith is the largest producer of corrugated case material (CCM)  
in the UK, and also the largest producer of corrugated packaging. 
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging we are now one of the 
largest manufacturers of CCM in Europe and the second largest 
supplier of corrugated packaging in Europe. In the event of material 
new paper production capacity being installed by our competitors,  
this could impact the market for CCM, which is largely a commoditised 
product, both directly or through the impact of imports, which could  
in turn inﬂuence pricing in the corrugated packaging market.
We aim to develop long-standing relationships with our corrugated 
packaging customers based on the value that we add to their supply 
chain, and to differentiate DS Smith by the service, quality and 
innovation that we offer. We have also put in place a new structure  
to improve the procurement and supply processes across the Group,  
in order to ensure our corrugated packaging businesses have access  
to all grades of paper at competitive rates. 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
RISK MANAGEMENT continued
OTHER RISKS continued
Energy costs
Impact Mitigation
The Group’s exposure to energy costs is set out in the Financial Review 
in this Annual Report. The acquisition of SCA Packaging during the year 
has doubled the Group’s energy costs. A 10 per cent increase in 
energy prices would represent an increase in operating costs of  
c. £25 million.
The Group aims to mitigate its exposure to energy costs by using 
indexed supply contracts and by entering into hedging contracts  
with utilities and ﬁnancial institutions. The Group monitors its portfolio  
of hedging contracts to ensure that it is not overly reliant upon any  
single counterparty. The Group is also looking to supplement external 
providers of energy with in-house energy generation from its combined 
heat and power plants.
Operational failure such as IT systems and controls or facilities failure
Impact Mitigation
Like most businesses, the Group depends on its IT systems and controls 
for the management of its operations. Were these to fail for a material 
length of time, this could disrupt the Group from transacting its business. 
Were an incident such as a ﬁre to happen at a major site, this could 
impact on the operations and ﬁnancial performance of the Group.
The Group manages its IT through a combination of experienced staff 
and contracted-out teams. The Group has back-up arrangements in 
place at all its major sites and operates to the highest standards of 
safety at its facilities. The Group has a large network of sites such that 
manufacturing of some products could be transferred between sites.  
The Group is also insured against losses arising from certain incidents 
that might impact on the operations of our facilities. Note, however,  
that certain losses are either not insurable or not economically insurable, 
such as losses due to natural disasters, riots, acts of war or terrorism.
Competition
Impact Mitigation
The Group operates in a market controlled by laws governing 
competitive behaviour. Penalties for breaching competition laws  
could result in substantial ﬁnes and reputational damage to the Group.
The Group has a rigorous programme of training for all relevant 
employees, to ensure that they fully understand the applicable laws  
and the high standards to which they are expected to operate. 
Furthermore, the Group operates a Workplace Malpractice helpline  
in those jurisdictions where this is permissible, providing a conﬁdential 
route for employees to report perceived malpractice of any type.
Industrial relations breakdown
Impact Mitigation
The Group employs around 20,000 people. Were an issue to arise 
that caused a material breakdown in industrial relations, such that there 
was a prolonged strike or other industrial action within a part of the 
business, this could have a material impact on the ﬁnancial 
performance of the Group.
The Group maintains good relationships with all signiﬁcant 
organisations that seek to represent its employees. Furthermore,  
the Group aims to provide employees with a safe working  
environment and a culture that fosters excellent performance and 
encourages self-development. Through being an employer of choice, 
we aim to avoid material industrial relations issues arising.
Employee safety
Impact Mitigation
Employee safety is the Group’s top priority. Were an incident to  
arise where unsafe practice was found to be taking place, this  
could potentially result in the interruption of some of our operations  
for a period of time and the Group could incur ﬁnancial penalties  
and reputational damage.
The Group has a very detailed and extensive health and safety 
programme, which is embedded in all its operations. Further details  
of this programme are set out in the section on Corporate  
Responsibility in this Annual Report.               47
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Product liability
Impact Mitigation
The Group’s products are used, amongst other things, for packaging 
food and drink products and accordingly are manufactured to  
conform to the relevant standards. Were any products to be defective, 
or were the applicable standards to become signiﬁcantly more onerous,  
this could give rise to both ﬁnancial and reputational damage to  
the Group.
The Group has not been held liable in any material product liability 
claims in recent years. The Group observes all applicable safety 
standards and engages with industry bodies in their research  
on the use of packaging for food and drink products. 
Taxation
Impact Mitigation
As the majority of the Group’s subsidiaries are outside the UK, the 
Group’s effective rate of tax depends on corporate tax rates in other 
countries, which may be both higher and lower than the rate of 
corporate income tax in the UK. Accordingly, the Group’s overall  
tax rate and total tax payments may change depending on the 
geographical mix of the business and on changes in tax legislation  
both within and outside the UK.
Tax is a complex area and from time to time ﬁscal authorities may 
interpret tax legislation differently from the Group. This may result in 
challenges to the tax treatment adopted by the Group and reﬂected  
in its tax charge, tax balances and tax payments.
The Group actively manages its tax affairs in order to be consistent  
with its commercial objectives whilst fully complying with all relevant 
tax legislation.
Foreign exchange rate movements
Impact Mitigation
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging, the Group has substantial 
investments in foreign currency assets of its subsidiary companies based 
overseas, in particular those whose functional currency is the euro. In 
addition, approximately 80 per cent of the Group’s operating proﬁt will 
be derived from currencies other than sterling, principally the euro. The 
Group’s ﬁnancial covenant ratios within its ﬁnancing arrangements are 
exposed to the extent that earnings in foreign currency contribute to the 
Group’s total EBITDA.
In order to hedge these exposures, the Group’s policy is to hedge its 
EBITDA with a proportionate amount of debt held in foreign currencies. 
The Group’s foreign currency debt may be held either in the currency 
itself or through the use of cross-currency swaps.
Other social and environmental matters
Impact Mitigation
The Group’s management of other social and environmental risks  
is described in the section on Corporate Responsibility in this  
Annual Report.
As described in the section on Corporate Responsibility. 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
COMMITTED 
TO OUR  
STAKEHOLDERS
Gareth Davis
Chairman   
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
1 June 2010 as a non-Executive Director. He 
became Chairman of the Board on 4 January 2012 
and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
Skills and experience: He is Chairman of both 
William Hill PLC and Wolseley plc. He was 
previously Group Chief Executive of Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC. Age 63.
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive  
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
4 May 2010 as Group Chief Executive. 
Skills and experience: He was previously Chief 
Executive of McBride plc from July 2005 until April 
2010, having originally joined as its Group Finance 
Director in January 2002. He was a non-Executive 
Director of Care UK plc until May 2010. Age 49.
Steve Dryden
Group Finance Director 
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
1 April 2008 as Group Finance Director . He  
resigned from the Company on 8 January 2013 and 
will stand down from the Board on 28 June 2013.
Skills and experience: He was until recently a 
non-Executive Director of Fiberweb plc. He held the 
position of Finance Director of Filtrona plc following 
its demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005. Prior to that  
he was divisional Finance Director of the Filtrona 
businesses and held other senior ﬁnance positions 
within Bunzl plc. He began his career at Price 
Waterhouse and has also held various ﬁnance  
roles within Rolls-Royce plc. Age 45.
Jonathan Nicholls
Senior Independent Director   
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
1 December 2009 as a non-Executive Director.  
He is the Senior Independent Director and is the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Skills and experience: He was previously Group 
Finance Director of Hanson Plc and, most recently, 
Group Finance Director of Old Mutual Plc. He is a 
non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committees of Great Portland Estates plc and  
SIG plc and was a non-Executive Director of Man 
Group Plc. Age 55. 
Nomination Committee
 Remuneration Committee
General Purposes Committee
Audit Committee               49
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Chris Britton
Non-Executive Director   
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
6 March 2013 as a non-Executive Director. 
Skills and experience: He is a non-Executive 
Director of Alliance Boots GmbH. Until the end of 
2012 he was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Findus 
Group, a privately-owned frozen and chilled food 
company, having previously been an Executive 
Board member and President of the Baby Division  
of Royal Numico until its acquisition by Danone in 
November 2007. Before that he worked for Diageo 
for 20 years in various marketing and general 
management positions, including his ﬁnal role as 
Global Marketing Director of Diageo. Age 55. 
Chris Bunker
Non-Executive Director   
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
9 December 2003 as a non-Executive Director.  
He is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and was previously Senior Independent Director. 
Skills and experience: He was previously  
Group Finance Director of Thames Water Plc, 
Tarmac Plc and Westland Group Plc. He is a 
non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc and  
was a non-Executive Director of Mowlem Plc, 
Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa plc.  
Age 66.
Philippe Mellier
Non-Executive Director   
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on  
7 September 2006 as a non-Executive Director. 
Skills and experience: He is Group Chief  
Executive Ofﬁcer of De Beers Group. He was 
President of Alstom Transport and an Executive 
Vice-President of Alstom Group, was previously 
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Renault 
Trucks and a Member of the Executive Committee  
of AB Volvo, and prior to that held senior 
management positions with Renault S.A.  
and Ford Motor Company. Age 57.
Kathleen O’Donovan
Non-Executive Director   
Appointment: Appointed to the Board as a 
non-Executive Director on 5 December 2012. 
Skills and experience: Kathleen is currently  
Senior Independent Director of ARM Holdings plc 
and chairs the Audit Committee. She was previously  
a non-Executive Director of Prudential plc, EMI  
Group plc, O2 plc and Trinity Mirror plc, and  
Senior Independent Director of Great Portland  
Estates plc. She has served as a Director on the 
Court of the Bank of England from 1998 to 2004 
and was Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of BTR plc and 
Invensys plc from 1991 to 2002. Age 56. 
Matt Jowett
Group General Counsel and  
Company Secretary 
Appointment: Appointed Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary on 21 June 2011. 
Skills and experience: He was previously Group 
General Counsel and Company Secretary of VT 
Group plc and prior to that he was Group General 
Counsel of RMC Group plc. He began his career  
at law ﬁrm Linklaters. Age 45.
Board tenure
1 -3 years (2)
4-6 years (4)
7-9 years (1)
1 0+ years (1)
Board background
Engineer (2)
Finance (4)
Sales and 
marketing (1)
International
Operations (1) 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
Key highlights from the year
• The successful integration of SCA 
Packaging into DS Smith.
• Embedded key management team 
and new management structure to 
ensure that organisational design is  
ﬁt for purpose. 
• Focused on the composition, balance 
and effectiveness of the Board. 
• Carried out an evaluation of the 
Board and its Committees.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
“ The protection of our reputation and  
application of our values, as set out in our 
business principles, is the responsibility of  
all employees.”
Dear Shareholders 
It has been said that major strategic actions test the true effectiveness of boards and, following the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging last year, DS Smith has successfully re-shaped itself in line with our 
strategic aim to become the leader in recycled packaging for consumer goods. 
I believe that your Board is both engaged and committed. The period ahead will bring many new 
challenges. The Company continues to build organisational capacity and improve our management 
processes and procedures, which are all underpinned by reference to the principle and application 
of sound corporate governance. The Board provides leadership to the business in order to create 
long-term value for stakeholders. 
The protection of our reputation and application of our values is the responsibility of all employees. 
These principles differentiate our products and services. Trust is earned from others as a result of our 
commitment to these values and the ethical manner in which we behave.
Diversity on boards of directors and elsewhere in corporate life continues to be a signiﬁcant theme  
in corporate governance. There have been some changes to the Board and its Committees during  
the year, and we welcome our two new non-Executive Directors and look forward to our new  
Group Finance Director, Adrian Marsh, joining the Company later in the year. When shown  
as a percentage, at the date of this report, your small Board of eight Directors has a 12.5%  
female membership, 12.5% of the Directors are French (with the remaining 87.5% being British)  
and 75% of the Board is under the age of 60. More helpfully, perhaps, we have shown the 
backgrounds and length of service for the Board on pages 48 and 49. Below Board level women 
are under-represented on our senior management team and ways of addressing this have been  
the subject of debate at various levels from the Board down.
This report covers the Board’s activities during the year and the activities of the Board Committees.  
The key governance issues addressed during the year were diversity, remuneration and stakeholder 
relations. These remain hot topics and will continue to form part of the discussions for the year ahead. 
As part of our annual Board performance evaluation process, we have reviewed our performance  
in 2012/13 and how we stood up to the test of our effectiveness. Whilst as a Board and as a 
Company we will always look at ways to improve our performance, I believe this report shows  
that our Board governance was, and remains, robust and effective.
Gareth Davis
Chairman
THE BOARD
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
REMUNERA TION 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
GENERAL 
PURPOSES  
COMMITTEE
Committee structure
Topics discussed at 
2012/13 Board meetings
Governance 14%
Strategy 11%
Financial Management 33%
Operations 34%
Health & Safety/Environment 8%               51
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Strategy • The acquisition of SCA Packaging and its successful integration into  
DS Smith formed a large part of the strategic discussion during the year.
• There was a focus on resource allocation and the Board received a 
brieﬁng on this at each meeting.
• The strategy review in December determined that the Company’s 
medium-term targets are to remain focused on recycled packaging to 
consumer companies, reducing cyclicality of returns and reducing 
non-integrated paper production. 
• The Group’s dividend policy was debated and approved.
• Approve and keep under review the corporate plan.
• Appoint a new Group Finance Director.
• Keep the Group’s dividend policy under review.
Risk and risk 
management
• The Board reviewed key risks (see pages 43 to 47) and the internal 
controls process, and assessed the Group risk proﬁle by identifying 
where the business’s key risks lay, aligning them with the risk appetite  
of the business and highlighting how to target effectively and  
mitigate those risks.
• The Board monitored compliance with the anti-bribery and  
anti-corruption policy. 
• The Board monitored compliance with the competition law policy.
• Appoint a Group Risk Ofﬁcer and further strengthen  
the Group’s risk management framework.
• Approve a Code of Conduct.
• Approve an updated Data Protection policy.
Governance 
and values
Leadership and employees:
• Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness  
of the Board. The appointment of two new non-Executive Directors  
and the recruitment of a new Group Finance Director has helped  
to bring new perspectives, experience and skills to the table, further 
strengthening the Board debate.
• Reviewed the key operational roles and identiﬁed gaps in experience 
needed to deliver the strategy.
• Continued to enhance employee engagement through the annual 
employee survey, the OWN IT! programme and the roll-out of the 
business principles. 
• Sought shareholder approval for our remuneration policy.
Relations with shareholders:
• Independent investor audit undertaken by Makinson Cowell.
• Engaged with our retail shareholders at the AGM.
• Actively engaged with institutional shareholders, investors and other 
stakeholders throughout the year.
• Ensure that the Company remains at the forefront of 
developing and embedding best practice in responsible 
business behaviour.
• Maintain and enhance DS Smith’s culture and values.
• Reinforce compliance with DS Smith’s Code of Conduct.
• Continue to strengthen internal controls and reporting.
• Approve an operating framework which sets out the  
Group’s culture and values, as well as its key policies and 
procedures, all in accordance with the principles of good 
corporate governance.
• Review level of institutional holdings and consider actions  
to broaden further the Group’s shareholder base.
Organisational 
capacity
• Embedded new management team and management structure post  
the SCA Packaging acquisition; ensured organisational design is ﬁt  
for purpose and can evolve to reﬂect the growth in size and  
complexity of the business.
• Reviewed the health and safety lessons learned, ensuring the safety  
of our employees and others affected by our operations is protected. 
Appointed a new Head of Health and Safety.
• Undertook an evaluation of the Board and its Committees  
with the aim of becoming the best Board we can be.
• Reviewed the governance framework and launched comprehensive 
competition law, anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies, training  
and awareness drives.
• Continue to monitor senior executive talent management and 
development plans to provide succession for all key positions.
• Continue to increase the diversity of the Board and 
management team.
• Arrange more meetings between the Board and senior  
talent pipeline.
Board 
development
• Board composition was reviewed and the recommendations  
of the Nomination Committee were discussed and acted on.
• Board evaluation and the Chairman’s evaluation were carried  
out and an action plan developed.
• Enhance the Board’s strategic understanding of geo-political 
and economic risks in international markets. Use Board visits 
to promote understanding of markets and the business 
development opportunities they offer.
• Consider appointment of an additional non-Executive Director 
to improve Board diversity further.
• Annual evaluation of Board performance – to be carried out 
by questionnaire.
Key activities of the Board during 2012/13 and key priorities in 2013/14
Key activities in 2012/13 Key priorities in 2013/14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued
52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
The Company has complied throughout the ﬁnancial year with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), the main 
principles being Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders. In September 2012, a number of changes 
were made to the Code. Whilst compliance with this revised code was not required in respect of the 2012/13 ﬁnancial year, the Board accepts that 
it represents an authoritative statement of best practice and, as such, it has reviewed its practices relative to it and this is reﬂected, where possible, in 
additional information included within this report. The Board has regard to corporate governance issues in all of its decision-making. Further explanation 
of how the principles and supporting principles of the Code have been applied is set out below and in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
Company’s Auditor has reviewed the compliance with those provisions of the Code speciﬁed for their review.
Leadership 
Board and Board Committees
Independent Board
Nomination 
Committee
Audit  
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Annual General 
Meeting
Total number of meetings in 2012/13 75451
Number of meetings attended in 2012/13
Executive Directors
Miles Roberts No 7 (7) 5 (5) – – 1 (1)
Steve Dryden No 7 (7) – – – 1 (1)
Non-Executive Directors
Gareth Davis On appointment 7 (7) 5 (5) – 5 (5) 1 (1)
Chris Britton
1
Yes 2 (2) 1 (1) 1 (1) 1 (1) 0 (0)
Chris Bunker
2
Yes 7 (7) 5 (5) 4 (4) 5 (5) 1 (1)
Philippe Mellier Yes 7 (7) 5 (5) 4 (4) 5 (5) 1 (1)
Jonathan Nicholls Yes 7 (7) 5 (5) 4 (4) 5 (5) 1 (1)
Kathleen O’Donovan
3
Yes 4 (4) 3 (3) 1 (1) 3 (3) 0 (0)
The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year. Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1. Chris Britton was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in March 2013.
2. Chris Bunker completed his third consecutive term on 8 December 2012, but the Board concluded that he remains independent (see page 53).
3. Kathleen O’Donovan was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in December 2012.
Effectiveness
The Board carried out an appraisal of its 
performance and that of the Committees and 
the individual Directors between January and 
March 2013. Last year the review was carried 
out by an external facilitator. The Board’s policy 
is to go to an external facilitator every three 
years. In accordance with that policy, this year 
the review was carried out by the Chairman.  
A detailed questionnaire was completed by 
each Director, with the opportunity for separate 
discussions with each Director about the 
feedback. The review investigated a variety  
of aspects associated with Board effectiveness. 
The feedback was collated into a report and 
presented to the Board. All Directors and the 
Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary (‘Company Secretary’) participated  
in the exercise. 
The review concluded as follows:
• The appointment of the two new  
non-Executive Directors has improved  
the diversity of the Board.
• There is a frank and open culture and the 
dynamics between the Executive Directors 
and non-Executive Directors are such that 
issues can be raised easily, discussed openly 
and resolved efﬁciently. At present the size 
and make-up of the Board is suitable and  
the dynamics between non-Executive and 
Executive Directors work well. Challenge is 
offered and accepted in the spirit intended 
and debate is good. 
• The responsibilities of the Board and its 
Committees are appropriately drawn. The 
Board continues to demonstrate a methodical 
and thorough approach to its work with  
a high level of strategic clarity and strong 
executional skills. Information is presented  
in a timely and accurate manner and 
agendas are carefully planned and well 
supported by the Company Secretary. The 
review concluded that the Board is generally 
well informed and meetings are focused  
and effective. 
Three areas were identiﬁed for further  
Board discussion:
• There is still scope for further developing  
the Board’s diversity, in view of the broad 
international nature and aspirations of the 
business. In particular, the need for more 
continental European experience was 
highlighted. This will be taken into account  
in future non-Executive Director appointments.
• The understanding of the Board and its 
visibility of risk and executive succession 
planning needs to be further developed and 
the Board would beneﬁt from exposure to 
more members of the senior talent pipeline. 
• There is a need to develop further the  
Board’s understanding of the Group’s 
markets, customer relationships and 
competitive landscape.
A separate review of the Chairman, also by 
means of a questionnaire, was carried out by 
the Senior Independent Director. The review 
concluded that the Chairman had performed 
well. The Board considered whether, in view  
of his two other chairmanships, the Chairman 
was able to devote sufﬁcient time to the role. 
The Board concluded this was the case, but 
that the position should be monitored regularly.
The Board has discussed the ﬁndings of  
the review in detail and an action plan has 
been developed by the Chairman, with  
the assistance of the Company Secretary,  
to address the areas identiﬁed. 
Following this evaluation the Board 
recommends the election or re-election of 
Directors standing for election or re-election at 
the 2013 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’).               53
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
judgement and decision-making. Gareth Davis 
was regarded as independent when appointed 
Chairman. All Board members attend all Board 
and relevant Committee meetings unless 
exceptional circumstances prevent them  
from attending. 
In 2012, having served as a Director for  
nine years, Chris Bunker’s term of ofﬁce was 
extended for a period of 10 months to the 
Company’s AGM on 3 September 2013. 
Consequently, the Board has considered 
whether in respect of the period 9 December 
2012 to 3 September 2013 he continues to 
be independent notwithstanding his length of 
service. The Board concluded that he remains 
independent and, in reaching this decision, the 
Board noted that his period of ofﬁce had not 
coincided to any signiﬁcant degree with that  
of any of the current Executive Directors.
Summary of Board and Committee 
changes in the year
Month Change
December 
2012
Kathleen O’Donovan 
appointed as an independent 
non-Executive Director. She 
was also appointed as a 
member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees.
March  
2013
Chris Britton appointed as an 
independent non-Executive 
Director. He was also 
appointed as a member of the 
Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Accountability
Through this report and, as required, through 
other periodic ﬁnancial statements, the Board  
is committed to providing shareholders with a 
clear assessment of the Company’s position 
and prospects. The arrangements established 
by the Board for the application of risk 
management and internal control principles  
are detailed on page 57. The Board has 
delegated to the Audit Committee oversight  
of the management of the relationship with  
the Company’s auditors, further details of which 
can be found in the Audit Committee report  
on pages 54 to 55.
Relations with shareholders
The Company has a programme of regular 
meetings (which sometimes include the 
Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director), site visits and results brieﬁngs with its 
major institutional shareholders, which provide 
opportunities to discuss the progress of the 
business. The Board also receives feedback 
from major shareholders following the full and 
half-year results. Together, the Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and 
Head of Investor Relations ensure the Board  
is briefed on shareholders’ views such that any 
issues or concerns are fully understood and 
considered by the Board. In order to assist in 
developing an understanding of the views of 
major shareholders, periodically the Company 
commissions a survey of investors undertaken 
by external consultants. The results of the survey 
are presented to the Board. The Senior 
Independent Director is available to discuss 
with shareholders any major issues that cannot 
be resolved through normal channels.
The AGM is used as an opportunity to 
communicate with private shareholders, 
including a short presentation on the business 
and current trading position, as well as an 
opportunity for questions from investors to  
the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen  
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.  
All Directors who attend the AGM make 
themselves available to meet shareholders  
after the formal business of the meeting. To 
ensure compliance with the Code, separate 
resolutions are proposed on each discrete 
subject. All Directors will retire and stand for 
election or re-election this year (except for Chris 
Bunker, who is standing down from the Board 
at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM).
To reﬂect the voting preferences of all 
shareholders wishing to vote at the AGM, the 
Company will take a poll on all resolutions put 
to shareholders. The ﬁnal results are published 
through a Regulatory Information Service and 
on the Company’s website following the AGM.
Regular communication with shareholders also 
takes place through the Annual Report and via 
the Company’s website, www.dssmith.uk.com. 
In addition, the Company provides Interim 
Management Statements and trading updates.
On appointment, new Directors are given 
appropriate induction training, tailored to their 
speciﬁc needs, taking into account their 
individual qualiﬁcations and experience,  
which includes the provision of information  
on the Group’s strategy, key risks and policies 
and procedures, individual time with the 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Company Secretary and site visits to  
major business units. 
In addition to formal Board meetings,  
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
maintain regular contact with all Directors  
and hold informal meetings with non-Executive 
Directors to discuss issues affecting the 
Company. Individual Directors are encouraged 
to make site visits during the year. The 
Chairman and a number of the non-Executive 
Directors attended the Day One integration 
conference held in July 2012. The Board 
visited the Innovation Centre in Belgium in  
April 2013. A number of non-Executive 
Directors attended the Group Management 
Conference at Farnborough in June 2013. 
The Board reviews the performance of the 
Group and undertakes a corporate planning 
process on an annual basis. There is a formal 
schedule of matters reserved for consideration 
and approval by the Board. These include the 
annual budget, substantial acquisitions and 
disposals, the approval of the full-year and 
half-year results and a review of the overall 
system of internal control and risk management.
The principal Committees of the Board are  
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. All Board Committees have  
written terms of reference agreed by the  
Board. These are available on the Company’s 
website at www.dssmith.uk.com/aboutus/
corporate-governance and on request to the  
Company Secretary.
Each Director has access to all information 
relating to the Group and to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary (who is 
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed) and, as required, external advice 
at the expense of the Group. The Directors are 
provided with opportunities for training to 
ensure that they are kept up-to-date on relevant 
new legislation and regulatory changes, 
corporate governance developments and 
changing commercial risks. 
The ofﬁces of Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are held separately. During the year, 
each of the non-Executive Directors has at all 
times acted independently of management and 
has no relationships which would materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent 
Remuneration
The Board has delegated to the 
Remuneration Committee responsibility for 
agreeing remuneration policy, and the 
individual remuneration of the Executive 
Directors, the Chairman, members of the 
senior management team and the 
Company Secretary (see Remuneration 
Report on pages 58 to 70).  54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
Key responsibilities
• The accounting principles, policies  
and practices adopted in the  
Group’s accounts.
• External ﬁnancial reporting and 
associated announcements.
• The appointment, independence, 
effectiveness and remuneration of  
the Group’s Auditor.
• The resourcing, plans and effectiveness 
of Internal Audit performed on behalf of 
the Company by a major accountancy 
ﬁrm (currently KPMG), which is 
independent from the Group’s Auditor.
• The adequacy and effectiveness of  
the ﬁnancial control environment.
• The Group’s compliance with the Code.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
“ The Audit Committee has supported the  
Group through its transformational year, 
working with the Board to ensure our new  
wider business is brought into our ﬁnancial 
reporting and controls framework, while 
ensuring focus on the core business  
remains strong.”
Dear Shareholders 
The Audit Committee has had a number of challenges in the year under review. The Group has 
doubled in size with the acquisition of SCA Packaging, and ensuring that the proper policies and 
procedures were correctly implemented as part of the integration of the two businesses has been an 
important and comprehensive process. The Audit Committee has supported the Group through its 
transformational year, working with the Board to bring our new wider business into our ﬁnancial 
reporting and controls framework, while ensuring focus on the core business remains strong.
The Committee has also been reviewing the changes in reporting that will be required under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Although these changes do not formally come into effect until our 
next ﬁnancial year, the Committee has decided to adopt early where it considers it appropriate.
During the year under review, the Committee has conducted the usual review of our ﬁnancial  
results and controls, our business operations across the world and their management of risk and  
the consideration of emerging risks.
Jonathan Nicholls
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee Membership
Total number of meetings 4
Maximum 
could have 
attended Attendance
Jonathan Nicholls 4 4
Chris Britton
1
11
Chris Bunker
2
44
Philippe Mellier 4 4
Kathleen O’Donovan
3
11
1.  Chris Britton was appointed to the Board and as a 
member of the Audit Committee in March 2013.
2.  Chris Bunker continues to be considered independent.
3.  Kathleen O’Donovan was appointed to the Board 
and as a member of the Audit Committee in 
December 2012.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
include all the matters indicated by the Code, 
except the oversight of business risks which is 
the direct responsibility of the Board (with the 
risk management framework and processes 
overseen by the Committee).
During 2013/14, the Committee will have 
additional priorities in response to the revisions 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 October 2012. The Committee will review 
the arrangements in place which enable them 
to provide advice to the Board on whether the 
annual ﬁnancial statements, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide all information necessary to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. 
The performance of the Committee was 
evaluated as part of the Board performance 
evaluation process described on page 52.
The Committee receives and reviews regular 
reports from the external Auditor, Internal Audit 
and the Group Finance Director. Under  
its terms of reference the Committee is 
empowered to seek independent external 
advice but did not do so during the year.
External Audit
The Committee meets with the external Auditor 
to determine annually their qualiﬁcations, 
expertise, resources, independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness. In addition, the performance 
of the external and Internal Audit functions is 
evaluated. The Audit Committee receives 
written conﬁrmation from the external Auditor 
as to any relationships that might have a 
bearing on their independence, whether they 
consider themselves independent within the 
meaning of the UK regulatory and professional 
requirements, and on their quality control 
processes and ethical standards.
In order to ensure the independence and 
objectivity of the Auditor, the Committee 
maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor 
Independence Policy which covers services 
which may be provided by, and fees paid to, 
auditors. Audit fees are negotiated with the                55
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Group Finance Director and approved by the 
Audit Committee. The policy on the supply of 
non-audit services by external auditors is as 
follows: The Group should not employ the 
Auditor to provide non-audit services where 
either the nature of the work or the extent of 
such services might impair the Auditor’s 
independence or objectivity. The external 
Auditor is permitted to undertake some 
non-audit services, providing it has the skill, 
competence and integrity to carry out the  
work in the best interests of the Group, on,  
for example, advisory services and due 
diligence activities associated with potential 
acquisitions and disposals and major  
changes in accounting regulations. 
Non-audit services and fees are reported  
to the Audit Committee twice a year. For 
guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to 
the external Auditor should not exceed 75% of 
the annual Group audit fee without prior formal 
approval of the Committee. During 2012/13, 
total non-audit fees were 131% of the annual 
Group audit fee. The most signiﬁcant element 
related to the acquisition of SCA Packaging, 
where the use of external auditors was 
necessary and approved by the Audit 
Committee. Approval for permitted non-audit 
services is sought as required by this policy 
which speciﬁes that individual projects which 
would cost over £100,000 must be referred 
to the Chairman of the Committee for prior 
approval. The outcome of these reviews was 
not only that performance of the relevant 
non-audit work by the Auditor was the most 
cost-effective way of conducting business, but 
also that no conﬂicts of interest existed between 
such audit and non-audit work. In addition, 
£2.2 million was paid to other accounting 
ﬁrms for non-audit work, including £0.9 million 
for work relating to Internal Audit.
Deloitte LLP , a leading international audit 
partnership, was ﬁrst appointed as Auditor to  
the Group companies in 2006. The Committee 
is satisﬁed with Deloitte’ s independence and 
effectiveness and their fees are regularly 
compared with peer companies by the 
Committee. In accordance with professional 
standards, the partner responsible for the audit  
is changed every ﬁve years, with the last rotation 
made for the 2011/12 ﬁnancial year . There 
are no contractual restrictions on the Group  
with regard to Deloitte’ s appointment. 
The Committee has reviewed the external audit 
provision and considers it an appropriate time 
to undertake a full tender process for external 
audit services. The Committee has therefore 
approved a tender process which will be 
carried out during 2013. 
Operation of the Committee
During the year, the Committee met four times 
and met privately with the external Auditor after 
each meeting. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee also held separate private meetings 
during the year with the external Auditor, 
representatives from Internal Audit and the 
Group Finance Director and his team. The 
Committee received sufﬁcient, reliable and 
timely information from management to enable 
it to fulﬁl its responsibilities. The Committee  
is satisﬁed that the Group’s executive 
compensation arrangements do not prejudice 
robust controls and good stewardship.
In addition to the Committee members, the 
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the 
Group Finance Director, representatives from 
Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller 
attend parts of these meetings by invitation. The 
Board is satisﬁed that Jonathan Nicholls and the 
members of the Audit Committee have both 
current and relevant ﬁnancial experience  
(as set out on pages 48 to 49).
• During the run up to and period after the acquisition of SCA Packaging, the Committee considered reporting  
and internal controls relating to the newly acquired business, including discussion of how to prioritise Internal  
Audit visits to new locations acquired, and roll-out of ﬁnancial policies and procedures.
• The Committee discussed reports during the year about the progress of SCA Packaging fair value accounting 
completion accounts claim, including consideration of the associated accounting.
• The Committee considered the effectiveness of systems for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the Group, 
and reviewed the Group’s Key Risk paper.
• Reviewed the Group’s exceptional items policy in order to ensure appropriateness and consistency  
of approach towards exceptionals.
• Internal Audit strategy, ﬁndings and management responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued  
by the function during the year were reported, debated and management actions monitored for timely completion.
• Pension assumptions and valuation results were reported to the Committee and reviewed.
• At the year-end a series of tests were undertaken to determine whether there had been any impairment to  
the balance sheet carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets to update a process of impairment 
monitoring that is ongoing throughout the year. The Committee discussed the new operating segment grouping 
used for testing and were able to challenge management’s underlying assumptions. The key assumptions behind 
these calculations can be found in note 10 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
• The Committee reviewed evaluations of going concern and sensitivity analysis and recommended to the Board  
that the preparation of the year-end ﬁnancial statements on a going concern basis was appropriate.
• The Committee received reports from Internal Audit on internal control matters and from the external Auditor on  
the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement and the ﬁnancial statements  
and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal control.
• The Committee carried out an appraisal of the external Auditor and Internal Audit function, the results of which 
were reported to the Board. The Committee concluded that each area operated satisfactorily during the year.  
The annual audit fee, with regard to the split between audit and non-audit fees, was approved.
• Working capital, cash ﬂow and covenant headroom were reviewed.
• Terms of Reference for the Committee were reviewed and a revised set was recommended to the Board  
for approval.
• Carry out tender process  
for external audit service.
• Review of provision  
of non-audit services.
• Implementation of the 
revisions to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
• Carry out an assessment  
of the external Auditor’s  
effectiveness.
• Test whether there has  
been any impairment to  
the balance sheet and  
review going concern.
• Review the Group’s Key Risks 
and the reporting thereon.
• Review and approve the 
half-year and full-year results.
• Review the Internal Audit 
report on internal control 
matters and review 
management response.
• Evaluate systems of internal 
control across the Group, 
including IT controls.
d hddfh fAk h dd
Key activities in 2012/13 Key priorities in 2013/14 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOMINATION  
COMMITTEE
Key responsibilities
• Evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience, diversity  
of the Board and the length of service 
of each Director .
• Develops role speciﬁcations.
• Reviews succession planning and 
diversity at Board and senior 
management level.
Succession 
planning 
• Candidates for appointment as 
non-Executive Directors were reviewed 
and nominations were made, based 
on merit against objective criteria  
(with diversity, as set out below, an 
important consideration), for the 
Board’s approval.
• The process of appointing a new 
Group Finance Director was begun.
• Concluded the appointment of  
a new Group Finance Director.
• Considering candidates for 
appointment of an additional  
non -Executive Director to further 
strengthen the Board.
Diversity • Diversity is an important part of the 
considerations for any appointment. 
Different aspects, including 
professional background and 
experience, geographic/cultural 
diversity and gender diversity were 
taken into consideration. 
• Kathleen O’Donovan’s appointment 
went part of the way to addressing 
the gender balance on the Board.
• Chris Britton’s appointment 
strengthened the Board’s retail and 
marketing experience.
• Further reinforcing the cultural 
and expertise diversity in the 
Board’s composition.
• Considering ways to improve 
diversity in the pipeline for 
senior management roles.
Strategy • The Company’s strategy is taken  
into consideration as part of the 
succession planning process. The 
senior management team was 
reviewed and areas of knowledge 
and experience identiﬁed that would 
assist the Company in strategic 
development and delivery.
• Further strengthening of the 
senior management team.
• Reviewing the Group’s talent 
management process.
Governance • The performance of the Committee 
was evaluated as part of the Board 
performance evaluation process 
described on page 52.
• The Committee reviewed the Terms  
of Reference and recommended a 
revised set to the Board for approval.
• Annual evaluation of the 
Committee in the ﬁrst quarter  
of 2014.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
“ The Nomination Committee has overseen  
a number of important changes to the 
composition of the Board.”
Dear Shareholders 
The Nomination Committee has the responsibility to ensure that the make up of the Board reﬂects  
the best that the Company can be, by identifying the skills required of future Directors and making 
recommendations to the Board as a whole. The Nomination Committee has overseen a number of 
important changes to the composition of the Board. The Committee ensures that a rigorous process is in 
place for the appointment of new Directors, using a number of external recruitment consultants (who have 
no other connection with the Company), followed by meetings with the Committee and then with the 
Board. The Committee also takes into account the Company’ s strategy as part of the succession planning 
process and, as a consequence, identiﬁes areas of knowledge and experience required in the senior 
management team that will assist the Company in strategic development and delivery.
Gareth Davis
Chairman
Nomination Committee Membership
Total number of meetings 5
Maximum 
could have 
attended Attendance
Gareth Davis 5 5
Chris Britton
1
11
Chris Bunker
2
55
Philippe Mellier 5 5
Jonathan Nicholls 5 5
Kathleen O’Donovan
3
33
Miles Roberts 5 5
1.  Chris Britton was appointed to the Board and as a 
member of the Nomination Committee in March 2013.
2.  Chris Bunker continues to be considered independent.
3.  Kathleen O’Donovan was appointed to the Board  
and as a member of the Nomination Committee  
in December 2012.
Concluded the appointment of
Key priorities in 2013/14
• Candidates for appointment as •
K Key activities in 2012/13
Suc S ces i sion •
K               57
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Other Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain powers, 
mainly of a routine nature, to the General 
Purposes Committee, which comprises the 
Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director under the chairmanship of the Group 
Chief Executive.
Conﬂicts of interest
The Company’ s Articles of Association 
permit the Board of Directors to authorise 
a conﬂict of interest or potential conﬂict of 
interest notiﬁed by a Director (subject to 
conditions if appropriate), provided that 
the Board considers this to be in the best 
interests of the Company.
Each of the Directors in ofﬁce reviews 
their individual position regularly and 
new Directors review their individual 
positions prior to joining the Board. As 
a routine item Directors are asked, at 
the start of each Board meeting, to 
declare any interests that might conﬂict 
with the agenda items under discussion. 
The Company has also put procedures 
in place via the Company Secretary 
whereby the Directors can notify any 
future conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of 
interest that may arise so that the Board 
can consider whether authorisation is 
appropriate. Any such notiﬁcations are 
reviewed at the next Board meeting 
and, if considered appropriate, 
authorised. Directors do not participate 
in the discussion, or vote regarding their 
own conﬂicts. If authorised, any conﬂicts 
are entered in the Conﬂicts Register.
An annual review of conﬂicts is carried 
out and this is incorporated into the 
year-end process of verifying Directors’ 
interests. The procedures continue to 
operate effectively.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’ s system of internal control, including 
ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls, 
and risk management systems, and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. Such a system, however , can 
only be designed to manage rather than to 
eliminate risk and therefore can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. In accordance  
with the T urnbull guidance, the Company has  
in place the procedures necessary to ensure  
that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks  
to the Group. These procedures have been in 
place throughout the year under review and up 
to the date of the approval of these ﬁnancial 
statements and have been reviewed by  
the Board during the year . A Group Risk  
Committee, comprising the Group Management  
T eam (Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director , Company Secretary, Group Human 
Resources Director , Chief Procurement Ofﬁcer 
and Divisional Chief Executives) meets regularly.  
The Group Risk Committee discusses the key 
risks facing the Group and whether there are 
any material new risks, and the adequacy and 
suitability of the mitigation arrangements in  
place to manage those risks.
The Board determines the objectives and  
broad policies of the Group. It meets regularly 
and there is a schedule of matters which are 
required to be brought to it for decision. The 
Board has delegated to management the 
responsibility for establishing a system of internal 
control appropriate to the business environments 
in which the Group operates. Key elements of 
this system include:
• a clearly deﬁned divisionalised organisation 
structure for monitoring the conduct and 
operations of individual business units; 
• clear delegation of authority throughout the 
Group, starting with the matters reserved for 
the Board;
• a formal process for ensuring that key risks 
affecting all the Group’ s operations are 
identiﬁed and assessed on a regular basis, 
together with the controls in place to mitigate 
those risks. Risk consideration is embedded  
in decision-making processes. The most 
signiﬁcant risks are periodically reported  
to the Board and considered by it;
• the preparation and review of comprehensive 
annual divisional and Group budgets and an 
annual review and approval by the Board of 
the corporate strategy;
• the monthly reporting of actual results  
and their review against budget, forecasts 
(including bank covenant headroom) and  
the previous year , with explanations obtained 
for all signiﬁcant variances;
• clearly deﬁned policies for capital expenditure 
and investment, including appropriate 
authorisation levels, with larger capital 
projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring 
Board approval;
• procedural manuals laying down common 
control procedures and policies to apply 
throughout the Group;
• formal monthly meetings between the  
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director and divisional management to  
discuss strategic, operational and ﬁnancial 
issues; and
• communicating key corporate values  
to all employees.
The Group’ s Internal Audit function undertakes 
regular reviews of the individual businesses’ 
operations and their systems of internal control, 
makes recommendations to improve controls 
and follows up to ensure that management 
implement the recommendations made. The 
Internal Audit plan is determined on a risk 
assessment basis and is reviewed and approved 
by the Audit Committee. Internal Audit’ s ﬁndings 
are reported to Group and divisional business 
management as well as to the Audit Committee.
The Board can conﬁrm that it has carried out an 
annual review of the overall effectiveness of the 
Group’ s system of internal control and risk 
management procedures, during the year and 
up to the date of approval of this Annual Report. 
This included a process of self-certiﬁcation by 
senior divisional management in which they 
were asked to conﬁrm that their divisions have 
complied with Group policies and procedures 
and to report any signiﬁcant control weaknesses 
identiﬁed during the past year . In addition,  
it involved reviewing the results of the work  
of the Group’ s Internal Audit function and the  
risk identiﬁcation and management processes 
identiﬁed above.
Going concern
In considering the going concern basis for 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements, the Directors 
have considered the Company’ s objectives and 
strategy, risks and uncertainties in achieving its 
objectives and its review of business 
performance, which are all set out in the 
Strategic summary, Operating Review and 
Financial Review sections of this Annual Report 
and Accounts. The Group’ s liquidity and funding 
arrangements are described in notes 17 and 19 
to the ﬁnancial statements, as well as in the 
capital structure and treasury management 
section of the Financial review, and the Directors 
consider that the Group has signiﬁcant covenant 
and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities 
for the foreseeable future.
After reviewing the Company’ s expenditure 
commitments, current ﬁnancial projections  
and expected future cash ﬂows (with appropriate 
sensitivities applied), together with the available 
cash resources and undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities (and including consideration 
of the impact from the acquisition of SCA 
Packaging), the Directors have considered  
that adequate resources exist for the Company 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements. 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Key highlights from the year
• Considered the impact of revised 
legislation on Directors’ Report  
on Remuneration.
• Carried out the 2012/13 
Remuneration Policy  
investor consultation.
• Reviewed benchmarking procedures 
in light of feedback from 2011/12 
investor consultation.
• Considered the approach to 2013 
remuneration policy.
REMUNERATION REPORT
“ Within an increasingly demanding,  
competitive and international environment we 
want our employees to be fairly compensated 
and incentivised to deliver our strategic vision.”
Remuneration Committee Membership
Total number of meetings 5
Name
Maximum 
could have 
attended Attendance
Chris Bunker
1
55
Chris Britton
2
11
Gareth Davis 5 5
Philippe Mellier 5 5
Jonathan Nicholls 5 5
Kathleen O’Donovan
3
33
1.  Chris Bunker continues to be considered independent.
2.  Chris Britton was appointed to the Board and as a 
member of the Remuneration Committee in March 2013.
3.  Kathleen O’Donovan was appointed to the Board and 
as a member of the Remuneration Committee in 
December 2012.
Dear Shareholders 
Senior executive remuneration has continued to be the subject of much comment, both in the media and 
within Government. This year the Remuneration Report (the ‘Report’) has been designed to move towards 
the new requirements for remuneration reporting, as proposed by the Department for Business, Innovation 
and Skills (‘BIS’) as part of their consultation process, and also to comply with existing requirements. As 
we move towards separate votes on remuneration policy and the implementation of that policy, as 
required by the proposed new rules, we have split the report to help identify which sections will be 
subject to advisory or binding votes by shareholders in future.
The Committee aims to provide clear , transparent reporting of performance and resulting remuneration 
and believes that this report meets that objective. The Report is designed to provide you with the 
necessary information to understand the link between our Group’ s strategy, its performance, and the 
remuneration outcomes for its senior executives. It is also intended to deliver the remuneration disclosures 
required by UK regulation. 
Last year , the Committee engaged in an extensive consultation with our major shareholders and their 
representative bodies over the changes to the 2012/13 executive remuneration policy resulting from the 
transformational acquisition of SCA Packaging and we have continued that good practice this year . The 
Committee actively considered feedback received from shareholders prior to and following the 2012 
AGM and also closely monitored guidance and directional themes emerging from institutional shareholder 
bodies and the UK government during the year on the subject of executive remuneration.
Our remuneration strategy remains to ensure that we continue to attract, reward and retain the key 
people needed to drive the business forward whilst retaining our ‘pay for performance’ culture. Within 
an increasingly demanding, competitive and international environment we want our employees to be 
fairly compensated and incentivised to deliver our strategic vision. 
We seek, through a substantial proportion of performance-related variable remuneration, to ensure that 
outstanding performance is well rewarded and that underperformance is addressed through a structured 
process of executive development and performance appraisal. The Committee is ﬁrmly of the view that 
payment for failure is totally unacceptable, whilst executives should be well rewarded for outstanding 
performance. It will exercise the powers it has at its disposal to achieve these goals. 
No fundamental changes are planned to our remuneration policy this year . However , we will be 
conducting a review of our Remuneration Policy for next year . In particular , we will be considering 
whether the quantum, three-year term and types of long-term incentive plan we have in place remain 
appropriate going forward. Any changes to our current policy will be consulted on with shareholders 
before being the subject of the ﬁrst binding policy vote at our 2014 AGM. 
As explained in last year’ s report, we increased the salary levels of both Executive Directors as part of a 
two-year realignment to the market following the acquisition of SCA Packaging. The second increase will 
only apply to the Group Chief Executive and will be 8.1% with effect from 1 August 2013. As the Group 
Finance Director tendered his resignation on 8 January this year and will stand down from the Board on 
28 June 2013, he will forego his entitlements under the Company’ s long-term incentive plans and other 
Company bonus plans. His successor , Adrian Marsh, will be joining the Group later in the year .
Finally , as announced last year , I will be stepping down from the Board at the AGM in September 2013. 
Kathleen O’Donovan will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from then. I would like to 
conﬁrm that Kathleen, the Committee and I continue to be committed to the principles of good governance 
and best practice. The Directors’ Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM on 
3 September 2013 and we hope that you will be supportive of our ongoing remuneration policy .
Chris Bunker
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
26 June 2013               59
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
How the Remuneration Committee sets remuneration
The Committee’s overall policy is to ensure that the remuneration packages are competitive and enable the Company to attract, retain and  
motivate Executive Directors and other senior managers of sufﬁcient calibre to meet the Company’s needs. The Committee regards remuneration 
policy as an essential tool to underpin the performance culture of the Group and the remuneration packages are designed to align the interests of 
executives with those of our shareholders. We seek, through a substantial proportion of performance-related variable remuneration, to ensure that 
outstanding performance is well rewarded and that underperformance is addressed through a structured process of executive development and 
performance appraisal. 
Last year, the Committee engaged in an extensive consultation with our major shareholders and their representative bodies over the changes to  
the 2012/13 executive remuneration policy resulting from the transformational acquisition of SCA Packaging. The Committee has considered all  
of the comments and feedback received and addressed the concerns raised by those we consulted. No fundamental changes are planned to our 
remuneration policy this year.
The Committee is ﬁrmly of the view that payment for failure is totally unacceptable, whilst executives should be well rewarded for outstanding 
performance. It will exercise the powers it has at its disposal to achieve these goals. In particular, it is worth noting the following safeguards that  
exist in the Company’s remuneration policy: 
• Executive Directors have 12 month notice periods, with instalments payable for leavers rather than a lump sum. 
• Bonus and long-term plans include clawback provisions to recover payments if there is a material misstatement of results or if there  
is serious misconduct.
• Bonuses are not contractual and also not payable to ‘bad leavers’ if an executive has left (or is under notice) at the time of payment. 
• Deferred bonuses (half of the annual bonus) and long-term incentives will lapse in the case of ‘bad leavers’. 
Basic salary
The Committee has reviewed salaries in the context of the roles, experience and responsibilities of the Executive Directors and senior executives. It is 
cognisant of the current environment for executive pay and understands investors’ view that Executive Director salaries should not normally increase 
faster than those of the general workforce. It is also fully aware of the duty it has to shareholders to ensure that the right remuneration arrangements are 
in place. Last year the Committee looked at similar sized UK listed companies across different sectors as part of the review of the Executive Directors’ 
salaries. Following this review, and in line with the policy disclosed, the basic salary was increased over a two-year period with an 8.8% increase for 
the Group Chief Executive on 1 August 2012 followed by an 8.1% increase which will take effect on 1 August 2013. The Group Finance Director’s 
basic salary was increased by 9.2% on 1 August 2012 but will not increase in 2013 as he leaves the Company on 28 June 2013. These increases 
would have left the Executive Directors below the mid-market level of the benchmark group that was considered when setting the policy. Other senior 
executives’ basic salaries will be increased in the range of 0% to 2.5% from 1 August 2013. This compares to an average increase of 2.5% for the 
rest of the workforce. Whilst there is no overall policy on the relationship between Executive Directors’ pay and that of the workforce, the Company 
aims to pay fairly across the business. 
Basic salaries and pension provision are not linked to performance (except when basic salaries are reviewed), whilst payments under the annual 
bonus scheme and any long-term incentive scheme operated by the Company are wholly dependent upon performance against agreed targets.  
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Pension and beneﬁts 
Beneﬁts include provision of a company car, free fuel, income protection insurance, life cover and private medical cover. 
Miles Roberts receives an annual pension allowance of 30% of salary, in lieu of pension beneﬁts, plus life cover equal to four times basic salary.  
This payment is not considered to be salary for the purpose of calculating any bonus payment. 
Steve Dryden participates in the Group’s Registered Deﬁned Contribution Scheme with life cover equal to four times basic salary. Members of this 
scheme are required to contribute a minimum of 3% of their basic salary to qualify for matching Company contributions, with higher levels of 
Company contributions payable if the members pay a higher contribution. 
Steve Dryden has elected to pay contributions at a level that qualiﬁes for a Company contribution of 6%. He also receives a cash supplement of 
£65,000 per annum. This payment is not pensionable and is not considered to be salary for the purpose of calculating any bonus payment. 
Bonus
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of the Company’s annual ﬁnancial and strategic business targets. The annual bonus 
opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching ﬁnancial targets. The Deferred Share Bonus Plan (‘DSBP’) is operated for 
the Executive Directors and senior executives and is designed to encourage long-term shareholding, discourage excessive risk-taking and help focus 
on the Company’s key strategic priorities. 50% of any annual bonus earned is deferred into shares for three years. The payment of any bonus is 
determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on performance against targets. The deferred share element of the bonus vests after  
three years.
Share Matching Plan 
Under the Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’), which was approved by shareholders in 2011, the Executive Directors and a small number of senior 
executives receive awards of matching shares. The 2012 award to the Executive Directors was 75% of salary (calculated based on the maximum 
matching ratio of 1.5:1 on the ﬁrst 50% of salary worth of shares awarded under the DSBP). It is intended to award at the same level in 2013.  REMUNERATION REPORT continued
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Under the SMP the Committee has the power to review the speciﬁc targets for each award to ensure that they remain appropriate, but the new 
targets must be at least as challenging in the circumstances as the original targets were when they were set.
Matching awards normally vest three years after grant, to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisﬁed, the related  
DSBP award has not lapsed and provided the participant is still employed within the Group. If a DSBP award lapses before the vesting of the  
related matching award then that matching award will lapse at the same time. 
Performance Share Plan
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) which was approved by shareholders in 2008. The 2012 award to Executive Directors 
was 150% of salary. Award levels for the other most senior executives were generally at the 100% of salary level. It is intended to award at the same 
levels in 2013. Under the PSP , the Committee has the power to vary the metrics used each year and their relative weightings. It also has the power to 
review the speciﬁc targets for each award to ensure that they remain appropriate, but the new targets must be at least as challenging in the 
circumstances as the original targets were when they were set. 
Following the completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition and Spicers disposal, the Committee has reviewed the targets of the PSP awards that 
‘straddle’ the pre and post-acquisition period. As a result of this review, it has been decided to revise only one metric in one of the awards, namely 
the three-year average adjusted return on average capital employed (‘ROACE’) for the PSP award maturing in 2013/14. This target, as shown in the 
table below, has been adjusted from a range of 12.5% – 15.0% to a range of 11.0% – 13.5% to reﬂect the substantial structural change in the 
nature of the capital employed in the enlarged business. It was recognised that the disposal of Spicers, a business which had a higher ROACE than 
the Group average, and the acquisition of SCA Packaging, which had a lower ROACE than the Group average, had a signiﬁcant impact on the 
Group’s ability to meet the original targets. These targets were set before the impact of the changes in the Group were known. The Committee 
considers the revised target range at least as stretching as the original target range had the disposal and acquisition not taken place. 
Targets 
Due to commercial sensitivity the Company does not disclose bonus targets, however the Company does publish targets for the long-term schemes  
it operates, being the PSP and the SMP , and these targets are set out below:
Scheme Year ROACE EPS
Performance Share Plan 2010
2011
2012
11.1% – 12.2%
11.0% – 13.5%*
11.6% – 13.3%
10.2p – 12.1p
15.2p – 17.2p
19.2p – 23.0p
Share Matching Plan 2012 11.6% – 13.3% 19.2p – 23.0p
* Adjusted – see explanatory note above.
Service contracts
The Committee’s general policy is that the notice periods for Executive Directors appointed in future will not exceed one year, although on appointment 
it may be necessary in exceptional cases to offer a longer initial period which reduces to one year or less after a speciﬁc date. 
Date of contract Notice period
1
Group Chief Executive 
Miles Roberts
4 May 2010 The service contract may be terminated by 12 months’ notice by the Company, and by the Executive Director. The 
Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by making a payment equal to basic salary and pensions 
allowance for any unexpired period of notice.
Group Finance Director
2
 
Steve Dryden
1 April 2008 The service contract may be terminated by 12 months’ notice by the Company, and by the Executive Director. The 
Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by making a payment equal to basic salary for any 
unexpired period of notice.
1. The Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by making a payment equal to basic salary and pensions allowance for any unexpired period of notice. Such payment may 
be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments from the termination date. These monthly payments will be reduced to take account of any alternative employment or consultancy income 
during the period over which such instalments are payable.
2. Steve Dryden gave 12 months’ notice to the Company on 8 January 2013 that he intended to step down from the Board to take up a role in a private equity backed business and will 
leave the Board on 28 June 2013. 
Pay for performance safeguards
The annual bonus scheme is not contractual and bonuses under the scheme are not eligible for inclusion in the calculation of the participating 
executives’ pension scheme beneﬁts. No bonus payments are made to ‘bad leavers’ if an executive has left (or is under notice) at the time of payment 
and the deferred element will also lapse. Clawback provisions have been introduced into the annual bonus scheme and the DSBP so that individuals 
are liable to repay/forfeit some or all of their bonus if there is a material misstatement of results or if there is serious misconduct. 
The annual bonus targets were also demanding and included an additional performance underpin requiring integration and synergy savings to  
be substantially as indicated in the SCA Packaging acquisition prospectus for the 2012/13 bonus to pay out. This underpin further supports the 
Committee’s objective to reward executives for delivering the beneﬁts of, and not just the signing of, a transaction which is in the long-term interests  
of our shareholders.
Clawback provisions have also been introduced into the PSP and the SMP schemes (described above) so that individuals are liable to repay/forfeit 
some or all of their awards if there is a material misstatement of results or if there is serious misconduct. Awards lapse in the case of ‘bad leavers’. PSP 
and SMP awards for good leavers will normally vest at the end of the original vesting period, rather than in the year of departure. This ensures 
continued alignment with shareholders’ interests following cessation of employment.               61
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Share Ownership
All-employee share plan
In the UK a Sharesave Plan was introduced in January 2011. Executive Directors are eligible (along with all UK employees of the Company and 
participating subsidiaries of the Group) to participate in this Plan. Under this HMRC approved Plan options are granted to participants who have contracted 
to save up to £250 per month over a period of three years at a discount of up of 20% to the average closing mid-market price of the Group’ s shares on the 
three dealing days prior to invitation. Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed. In common with most plans of this 
type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this Plan. The Company is committed to providing opportunities for employees 
to become shareholders and intends to roll out a plan on similar lines to all regions. Details of Directors’ interests in the Sharesave Plan are as follows:
Executive Directors
Options held at 
30 April 2012
Options granted 
during year
Options exercised  
in year
Options lapsed  
in year
Options held at  
30 April 2013 Exercise price (p)
Dates from which 
exercisable Expiry date
Miles Roberts 7,551––– 7,551 119.2 1 Apr 14 30 Sep 14
Steve Dryden 7,551––– 7,551 119.2 1 Apr 14 30 Sep 14
Guidelines 
The shareholding guidelines are set out in the policy table on page 64. The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary 
shares of the Company were as shown below:
30 April 2012* 30 April 2013
Name of Director Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial
Total vested and 
exercisable awards Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial
Total vested and 
exercisable awards
Total expressed  
as a % of salary
Gareth Davis 85,000 – – 106,900 – – 113%
Miles Roberts 232,791 – 627,718 232,791 – 1,611,107 694%
Steve Dryden 195,487 – – 615,755 – – 368%
Chris Britton – – – 10,550 – – 49%
Chris Bunker 42,500 – – 42,500 – – 165%
Philippe Mellier 42,500 – – 42,500 – – 198%
Jonathan Nicholls 109,307 – – 109,307 – – 378%
Kathleen O’Donovan – – – ––––
* Or at date of appointment. 
Kathleen O’Donovan and Chris Britton have both joined the Board in the last 12 months and, under the non-Executive Directors’ shareholding 
guidelines, have up to two years from their date of appointment to build up a shareholding that is equivalent to 50% of their annual fee from the 
Company. Subject to the above, all Directors complied with the shareholding guidelines.
There have been no changes to the shareholdings set out above between the ﬁnancial year-end and the date of the Report. It is currently intended  
that any ordinary shares required to fulﬁl entitlements under the DSBP , the Substitute Share Bonus Award, the Replacement Deferred Share Award, the 
Replacement 2008 LTIP and the Recruitment Award will be provided by the David S. Smith Group General Employee Beneﬁt Trust (the ‘Trust’), which 
buys shares on the market to do so. The Trust may also be used to fulﬁl certain entitlements under the PSP , Executive Share Option Scheme and the 
Sharesave Plan (along with new issue shares for other entitlements). 
Policy on external appointments 
Executive Directors are allowed to accept external appointments as a non-Executive Director of up to two other companies provided that these are not 
with competing companies and are not likely to lead to conﬂicts of interest. In normal circumstances, the Group Chief Executive may not accept more 
than one external appointment. Executive Directors are normally allowed to retain the fees paid from these appointments. 
Miles Roberts has no external appointments. Steve Dryden was a non-Executive Director of Fiberweb plc until 28 February 2013 and received fees 
of £31,666 for the year ended 30 April 2013 (2011/12: £38,000). 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman 
The remuneration for non-Executive Directors consists of annual fees for their services as members of the Board and, where relevant, for their work  
on selected Committees. Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for a term of three years whereupon they are normally renewed, but 
generally for no more than three terms in aggregate. In each case the notice period is one month by the Company or the Director.
Date of contract Unexpired period
Gareth Davis Chairman 22 April 2013 Two years and eight months
Chris Britton
1
22 January 2013 Two years and seven months
Chris Bunker 3 September 2012 One month
Philippe Mellier 3 September 2012 Two years and two months
Jonathan Nicholls Senior Independent Director 3 September 2012 Two years and four months
Kathleen O’Donovan
2
10 September 2012 Two years and four months
1. Date of appointment as a Director was 6 March 2013.
2. Date of appointment as a Director was 5 December 2012. REMUNERATION REPORT continued
62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each non-Executive Director and are available for viewing at the registered ofﬁce 
during normal business hours and prior to and at the AGM. 
The fees for the Chairman and the non-Executive Directors were increased, following a comprehensive review, with effect from 1 August 2012. The 
review took into account market practice with reference to the comparator group. The Chairman’s fee was increased from £190,000 to £220,000. 
The base fee for the non-Executive Directors was increased from £47,000 to £50,000. The Audit Committee Chairman’s fee was increased from 
£8,000 to £10,000 and the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s fee was increased from £7,500 to £10,000. Neither the non-Executive 
Directors nor the Chairman are eligible for pension scheme membership and they do not participate in any of the Group’s annual bonus or other 
incentive arrangements. 
The rates for the Chairman’s and non-Executive Directors’ fees are: 
Chairman’s and  
non-Executive Directors’ fees Base fee (£)
Senior Independent  
non-Executive Director fee (£)
Chairman of Audit  
Committee fee (£)
Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee fee (£) Total (£)
Gareth Davis 220,000––– 220,000
Chris Britton 50,000––– 50,000
Chris Bunker 50,000 – – 10,000 60,000
Philippe Mellier 50,000––– 50,000
Jonathan Nicholls 50,000 7,500 10,000 – 67,500
Kathleen O’Donovan 50,000––– 50,000
The Company’s Articles of Association enable the Board to set the remuneration of non-Executive Directors within the limits set by shareholders. The 
current aggregate limit is £750,000 and the aggregate amount paid in the ﬁnancial year to the non-Executive Directors was £416,292. Executive 
Directors are remunerated in respect of their executive appointments, under the terms of their service contracts, and receive no additional fees for 
serving as Directors.
Total shareholder return performance 
The following graph illustrates the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance since 1 May 2008, relative to the FTSE 250 Index. The 
Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and, accordingly, this index is considered to be the most appropriate comparator group for this purpose. 
This graph looks at the value, by 30 April 2013, of £100 invested in DS Smith over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years compared with that of £100 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends. 
DS Smith FTSE 250 Index
(Value £)
2013 2012
Source: Thomson Reuters
2011 2010 2009 2008
Total shareholder return
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
New Group Finance Director
On 20 June 2013 the Company announced the appointment of Adrian Marsh as Group Finance Director of the Company, succeeding Steve 
Dryden who will leave the Company on 28 June 2013. Adrian will join the Company later this year. The key elements of his remuneration will be:
Basic Salary: £400,000
Beneﬁts: Car allowance, income protection insurance, life cover and medical insurance
Bonus: Maximum 125% of basic salary with 50% deferred in shares
PSP: Maximum 125% of basic salary
SMP: Maximum of 1.5:1 on ﬁrst 50% salary worth of shares awarded under the DSBP
Pension: The Company will contribute into the Deﬁned Contribution scheme up to 20% of basic salary, or he can take an equivalent non-
pensionable cash supplement of 20% of salary which will not contribute towards bonus or PSP awards               63
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2013/14
The Committee regards remuneration policy as an essential tool to underpin the performance culture of the Group.
Key elements of remuneration
Vision, Purpose  
and link to strategy
Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance metrics
Changes  
in year
Basic salary
To help recruit and retain 
key senior executives.
To provide a  
mid-market salary  
relative to comparable  
companies, in terms  
of size and complexity.
Normally reviewed by the Committee annually and 
ﬁxed for the 12 months commencing 1 August.
The Committee takes into account:
• role, experience and performance;
• average change in broader workforce salary; and
• total organisational salary budgets.
Salaries are benchmarked against similar roles within 
a selected group of UK businesses of similar size with 
substantial overseas operations.
1 August 2013: 
Group Chief 
Executive’s salary   
of £670,000.
Reﬂect the individual’s experience  
and role within the Group.
Group Chief 
Executive’s salary  
to increase by  
8.1% effective from  
1 August 2013.
Beneﬁts
To help retain employees 
and remain competitive  
in the marketplace.
Directors receive a car allowance, income protection 
insurance, life cover and medical insurance.
Full cost of annual  
policy c.£20,565  
for Group Chief 
Executive.
None. None.
Annual bonus
To incentivise executives  
to achieve speciﬁc, 
predetermined goals  
during a one-year period.
To reward ongoing  
delivery and contribution  
to strategic initiatives.
Deferred proportion of 
bonus, awarded in  
shares, provides a  
retention element and 
additional alignment of 
interests with shareholders.
Targets are set annually and relate to areas of  
the business over which the executive has  
particular control. In 2012/13 there was a 
requirement for the integration and synergy savings  
to be substantially as indicated in the SCA Packaging 
acquisition prospectus.
Bonus payouts are determined by the Committee after 
the year-end, based on performance against targets.
50% of the bonus is paid in cash and 50% is deferred 
in shares.
The deferred bonus shares vest after three years and 
are paid together with an amount equal to the value 
of dividends payable on the vested shares during the 
deferral period. The deferred element is subject to 
forfeiture for ‘bad leavers’ who depart prior to vesting.
The annual bonus schemes are not contractual and 
bonuses under the schemes are not eligible for 
inclusion in the calculation of the participating 
executives’ pension scheme beneﬁts. 
Clawback provisions apply to the annual bonus plan 
and the deferred bonus shares so that individuals are 
liable to repay/forfeit some or all of their bonus if 
there is a material misstatement of results or if there  
is serious misconduct.
Maximum for the 
Executive Director:  
150% of salary.
The bonus is based on achievement  
of challenging ﬁnancial objectives 
related to PBTA and ROACE. 
No change  
has been made  
to measures, 
weighting, or  
bonus opportunity.
Performance Share Plan 
(PSP)
To incentivise Directors  
to achieve returns for 
shareholders over a  
longer time-frame. 
To help retain executives 
and align their interests  
with shareholders through 
building a shareholding.
Awards of nil-cost options are made annually with 
vesting dependent on the achievement of performance 
conditions over the three subsequent years. 
The Committee reviews the quantum of awards 
annually to ensure that they are in line with market rates 
and appropriate given the performance of the 
individual and the Company. 
Clawback provisions apply to the PSP so that 
individuals are liable to repay/forfeit some or all of 
their shares if there is a material misstatement of results 
or if there is serious misconduct.
Maximum: 150%  
of salary (200% of 
salary in exceptional 
circumstances).
50% of awards are based on relative 
TSR performance measured over three 
years against a group of 45 companies 
within the Industrial Goods & Services 
Supersector within the FTSE 250 as at 
the start of the performance period. The 
vesting scale is median to upper quartile 
of the group of companies. 
25% of awards are based on average 
Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) over a 
period of three ﬁnancial years.
25% of awards are based on average 
adjusted ROACE over a period of three 
ﬁnancial years.
25% of the relevant part of the award 
vests at threshold performance, rising to 
100% for achieving or exceeding the 
maximum performance target.
No change  
has been made  
to measures, 
weighting, or 
potential awards. REMUNERATION REPORT continued
64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Key elements of remuneration continued
Vision, Purpose  
and link to strategy
Operation
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance metrics
Changes  
in year
Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’)
To incentivise Directors  
to achieve returns for 
shareholders over a  
longer time-frame. 
To help retain executives 
and align their interests  
with shareholders through 
building a shareholding.
Awards of nil-cost options are made based on the 
number of shares awarded under the deferred bonus 
plan, with vesting dependent on the achievement of 
performance conditions over the three subsequent years. 
Clawback provisions apply to the SMP so that 
individuals are liable to repay/forfeit some or all of their 
shares if there is a material misstatement of results or if 
there is serious misconduct.
Maximum: 75% of 
salary (calculated 
based on the 
maximum matching 
ratio of 1.5:1 on 
the ﬁrst 50% of 
salary worth of 
shares awarded 
under the DSBP).
50% of awards are based  
on average EPS.
50% of awards are based on  
average adjusted ROACE.
25% of the maximum match  
(i.e. a matching ratio of 0.375:1)  
will apply for achieving threshold 
performance, rising to the maximum 
match (i.e. a matching ratio of 1.5:1) 
for maximum performance.
No change has 
been made to 
measures, 
weighting, or 
potential awards.
Pension
To remain competitive  
in the marketplace.
Executive Directors can elect to either:
• participate in the Group’s Registered Deﬁned 
Contribution Scheme (‘DC Scheme’), with life  
cover equal to four times basic salary; or
• receive a salary supplement; or
• a combination of the above.
Members of the DC Scheme are required to contribute 
a minimum of 3% of their basic salary to qualify for 
matching Company contributions, with higher levels of 
Company contributions payable if members pay a 
higher contribution.
Maximum: 30%  
of salary (including 
a maximum  
DC Scheme 
contribution).
None. None.
Share ownership guidelines
To further align the  
interests of executives  
with those of shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive is expected to maintain a 
shareholding in the Company’s shares of 150% of 
salary and, when appointed, the Group Finance 
Director will be expected to build up a shareholding of 
100% of salary within four years of appointment.
Executives are expected to retain at least 50% of shares 
(net of tax) which vest under the PSP , SMP , and DSBP 
until the share ownership guidelines are met.
If the guidelines are not met, the Committee reserves the 
right not to make, or to scale back, further awards.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to build up and 
then maintain a shareholding that is equivalent to 50% 
of their annual fee from the Company within two years 
of their date of appointment. 
None. None. No change.
Leavers
To strike a balance between 
the interests of executives 
and those of shareholders.
The Committee’s general policy is that service contracts 
may be terminated by 12 months’ notice by the 
Company, and by the Executive Director. The Company 
may terminate the contract with immediate effect by 
making a payment equal, in the Group Chief Executive’s 
case, to basic salary and pensions allowance for any 
unexpired period of notice. These payments will be 
reduced to take account of any alternative employment 
or consultancy income during the period over which 
such instalments are payable.
In the case of a ‘good leaver’:
• annual cash bonus will be paid out, subject to 
performance, on the normal payment date unless the 
Committee determines that the payment will be made 
early on the date of cessation of employment. The 
payout will be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reﬂect 
the proportion of the performance period served;
• deferred bonus shares will vest in full on the date of 
cessation of employment; and
• PSP and SMP awards will vest, subject to 
performance, on the normal vesting date unless  
the Committee determines that the awards will vest  
early on the date of cessation of employment (in 
exceptional circumstances only). Awards will be 
reduced on a pro-rata basis. 
In the case of a ‘bad leaver’:
• all performance-related elements of pay will  
lapse immediately.
– Not applicable. No change.               65
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Total Remuneration for 2012/13
The Group Chief Executive’s percentage of ﬁxed and variable remuneration for 2012/13 is illustrated in the chart above. This is based on a number 
of assumptions: (1) base salary is annual salary; (2) pension represents the annual service cost to the Company as disclosed in accordance with 
IAS19; (3) beneﬁts are core beneﬁts such as car allowance, free fuel, income protection insurance, life cover and private medical insurance; (4) 
bonus is the amount received for performance in 2012/13 delivered in cash and deferred shares; and (5) share-based incentives are the annualised 
expected value at ‘target’ performance of the PSP and SMP granted in 2012 expressed as a percentage of base salary. Fixed remuneration 
comprises: salary, pension and beneﬁts. Variable remuneration comprises: bonus (cash and deferred shares) and share-based incentives. Variable 
performance-related remuneration for Miles Roberts for 2013/14 will account for approximately 65% (2012/13: 54%) of total target remuneration 
(excluding pensions and beneﬁts). Steve Dryden tendered his resignation in January 2013. Accordingly, he will not receive a bonus for 2012/13 
and his deferred bonuses and long-term incentives will lapse.
Directors’ emoluments (auditable)
Salary/fees  
£’000
Annual bonus  
£’000
Deferred bonus  
£’000
Beneﬁts  
£’000
Pensions supplement  
£’000
2013 total  
£’000
2012 total  
£’000
Chairman  
Gareth Davis 213–––– 213 133
Group Chief Executive 
Miles Roberts 608 381 381 21 174 1,565 1,320
Group Finance Director 
Steve Dryden 379 – – 19 65 463 808
Non-Executive Directors  
Chris Bunker 60–––– 60 56
Chris Britton 8–––– 8 –
Philippe Mellier 49–––– 49 48
Jonathan Nicholls 65–––– 65 53
Kathleen O’Donovan 21–––– 21 –
Total 1,403 381 381 40 239 2,444 2,418
Included in the pension supplement ﬁgure for Steve Dryden is the non-pensionable cash supplement of £65,000 paid during the year, as detailed  
on page 59.
More detail on the separate elements of the Executive Directors’ emoluments, split between ﬁxed and variable elements, can be found in the policy 
table on pages 63 and 64. Details of the non-Executive Directors fees can be found on page 62.
Miles Roberts
Salary
Pensions and beneﬁts
Bonus (cash & deferred shares)
Share-based incentives REMUNERATION REPORT continued
66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Annual bonus (audited)
The Executive Directors participate in an annual bonus scheme which has been approved by the Committee. 
Annual bonus
2012/13 2013/14
Miles Roberts Steve Dryden Miles Roberts Adrian Marsh
Maximum potential bonus is 150%  
of basic annual salary, of which  
half will be deferred in shares.
Targets PBTA growth and  
improved ROACE and requirement  
for the integration and synergy  
savings to be substantially as  
indicated in the SCA Packaging 
acquisition prospectus. 
No bonus being paid. Maximum potential bonus for  
2012/13 is 150% of basic  
annual salary, of which half will  
be deferred in shares.
Targets PBTA growth and  
improved ROACE.
At target 50% of maximum  
bonus will be payable.
Not applicable.
Bonus earned 123% – £762,600 Bonus earned – £Nil
The annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors and other senior executives is operated as shown in the policy table on page 63. Bonus results are 
determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on performance against targets. Bonus awards will be measured against the achievement of 
Group objectives. At target 50% of maximum bonus will be payable. Maximum bonus is up to 150% of salary for the Executive Directors and 
generally 100% for the other most senior executives. 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (audited)
Executive Directors
Interests under  
the DSBP at  
30 April 2012
Awards granted/ 
commitments made 
during year
Awards 
crystallised  
in year
Awards  
lapsed  
in year
Date of  
award
Market price  
on date of  
award (p)
Market price  
at date of 
exercise (p)
Interests under  
the DSBP at  
30 April 2013
Vesting date  
if performance 
conditions met
Expiry  
date
Miles Roberts 109,029 – – – 8 Jul 11 267.1 – 109,029 8 Jul 14 8 Jul 21
– 192,502 – – 16 Jul 12 148.1 – 192,502 16 Jul 15 16 Jul 22
Steve Dryden 85,223 – – – 16 Jul 10 140.5 – 85,223 16 Jul 13 16 Jul 20
68,596 – – – 8 Jul 11 267.1 – 68,596 8 Jul 14 8 Jul 21
– 120,567 – – 16 Jul 12 148.1 – 120,567 16 Jul 15 16 Jul 22
Steve Dryden tendered his resignation in January 2013. Accordingly his deferred share bonuses will lapse when he leaves the Group on  
28 June 2013.
Performance Share Plan (audited)
Details of the Directors’ interests in the PSP are as follows: 
Executive Directors
Interests under  
the PSP at  
30 April 2012
Awards granted/ 
commitments made 
during year
Awards 
crystallised  
in year
Dividend 
equivalent
Awards  
lapsed  
in year
Date of  
award
Market price  
on date of  
award (p)
Market price  
at date of 
exercise (p)
Interests under  
the PSP at  
30 April 2013
Vesting date  
if performance 
conditions met
Expiry  
date
Miles Roberts 828,526 – – – – 16 Jul 10 140.6 – 828,526 16 Jul 13 16 Jul 20
438,595 – – – – 8 Jul 11 265.6 – 438,595 8 Jul 14 8 Jul 21
– 577,507 – – – 16 Jul 12 148.0 – 577,507 16 Jul 15 16 Jul 22
Steve Dryden 110,076 – 110,076 – – 17 Sep 08 133.5 210.0 – 17 Sep 11 17 Sep 18
674,686 – 674,686 94,141 – 22 Jul 09 71.0 210.0 – 22 Jul 12 22 Jul 19
511,053 – – – – 16 Jul 10 140.6 – 511,053 16 Jul 13 16 Jul 20
275,944 – – – – 8 Jul 11 265.6 – 275,944 8 Jul 14 8 Jul 21
– 361,702 – – – 16 Jul 12 148.0 – 361,702 16 Jul 15 16 Jul 22
Steve Dryden tendered his resignation in January 2013. Accordingly his PSP will lapse when he leaves the Group on 28 June 2013.               67
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
The vesting of each award granted in 2010 is split 50% based on the Company’s TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Industrial 
Goods and Services Supersector, 25% based on average adjusted EPS and 25% based on the average ROACE. 25% of the TSR part vests if the 
Company is ranked at median, rising to full vesting of this element if the Company is ranked in the top quartile. The threshold (at which 25% vests) 
and maximum targets are 10.2p and 12.1p for EPS and 11.1% and 12.2% for ROACE respectively. The EPS targets were adjusted in 2012 to 
reﬂect the increase in the number of shares in issue following the Rights Issue. 
The vesting of each award granted in 2011 is split 50% based on the Company’s TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Industrial 
Goods and Services Supersector, 25% based on average adjusted EPS and 25% based on the average ROACE. 25% of the TSR part vests if the 
Company is ranked at median, rising to full vesting of this element if the Company is ranked in the top quartile. The threshold (at which 25% vests) 
and maximum targets are 15.2p and 17.2p for EPS. The original threshold (at which 25% vests) and the maximum target for ROACE were 12.5% 
and 15.0%. The EPS targets were adjusted in 2012 to reﬂect the increase in the number of shares in issue following the Rights Issue. In addition, 
following the completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition and Spicers disposal, the Committee has reviewed the targets of the PSP awards that 
‘straddle’ the pre and post-acquisition period. As a result of this review, it has been decided to revise the three-year average ROACE for the PSP 
award maturing in 2013/14. This target has been adjusted to a range of 11.0% to 13.5% to reﬂect the substantial structural change in the nature  
of the capital employed in the enlarged business. It was recognised that the disposal of Spicers, a business which had a higher ROACE than the 
Group average, and the acquisition of SCA Packaging, which had a lower ROACE than the Group average, had a signiﬁcant impact on the 
Group’s ability to meet the original targets. The Committee considers the revised target range at least as stretching as the original target range had  
the disposal and acquisition not taken place.
The vesting of each award granted in 2012 is split 50% based on the Company’s TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Industrial 
Goods and Services Supersector, 25% based on average adjusted EPS and 25% based on the average ROACE. 25% of the TSR part vests if the 
Company is ranked at median, rising to full vesting for this element if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile. The threshold (at which 25% vests) 
and maximum targets are 19.2p and 23.0p for EPS and 11.6% and 13.3% for ROACE. 
It is proposed that the same balance of metrics is used for the 2013 awards as for the 2012 awards. The TSR targets will remain the same and 
these, together with the EPS and ROACE targets, are set out in the table below:
Percentage vesting as a proportion Relative TSR
1 
(50% of award) Average EPS
2
 (25% of award) Average adjusted ROACE
3
 (25% of award)
100% Upper quartile 25.3p 14.6%
Between 25% and 100% Between median and upper quartile 19.9p – 25.3p 12.6% – 14.6%
25% Median 19.9p 12.6%
1. The Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250 currently contains 45 companies and is considered to provide a better basis for comparison than the FTSE 250 as a 
whole. The Committee considers there are too few publicly quoted competitors to DS Smith to form a more bespoke group.
2. Average adjusted EPS as disclosed in the Annual Report.
3. Average adjusted Group operating proﬁt divided by the monthly average of capital employed in each year. 
4. The EPS and ROACE calculations will be based on the average ﬁgures for the forthcoming three ﬁnancial years, commencing with the ﬁnancial year starting immediately prior to the award. 
Targets may be adjusted by the Committee (for example, to reﬂect the impact of acquisitions and disposals) to ensure that the conditions achieve their original purpose. 
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Company’s performance in respect of the other elements. The 
Committee considers that the targets are signiﬁcantly more demanding than those set in previous years and achieving signiﬁcant vesting will require 
performance which is better than anything achieved previously. 
For all of the above awards the TSR calculations have been prepared on the standard Datastream basis for rights issues.  REMUNERATION REPORT continued
68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Share Matching Plan (audited)
Executive Directors
Interests under  
the SMP at  
30 April 2012
Awards granted/ 
commitments 
made during year
Awards 
crystallised  
in year
Dividend 
equivalent
Awards  
lapsed  
in year
Date of  
award
Market price  
on date of 
award (p)
Market price  
at date of 
exercise (p)
Interests under  
the SMP at  
30 April 2013
Vesting date if 
performance 
conditions met
Expiry  
date
Miles Roberts – 288,753 – – – 16 Jul 12 148.0 – 288,753 16 Jul 15 16 Jul 22
Steve Dryden – 180,850 – – – 16 Jul 12 148.0 – 180,850 16 Jul 15 16 Jul 22
Steve Dryden tendered his resignation in January 2013. Accordingly his SMP award will lapse when he leaves the Group on 28 June 2013.
In addition to the awards made to the Executive Directors described in the policy table, a small number of other senior executives receive SMP grants 
to a maximum of 50% of salary.
Replacement 2008 LTIP , Replacement Deferred Shares Award, Recruitment Award and Substitute Share Bonus  
Award (audited)
Executive Directors Scheme
Interests under  
the scheme  
at 30 April 
2012
Awards 
crystallised  
in year
Awards  
lapsed  
in year
Date of  
award
Market price  
on date of  
award (p)
Market price  
at date of  
exercise (p)
Interests under  
the scheme at  
30 April 2013
Vesting date if 
performance 
conditions met
Expiry  
date
Miles Roberts Replacement 2008 LTIP 627,718 – – 16 Jul 10 140.52 – 627,718 17 Oct 11 16 Jul 20
Replacement Deferred 
Shares Award 154,863 – – 16 Jul 10 140.52 – 154,863 1 Sep 12 16 Jul 20
Recruitment Award 828,526 – – 16 Jul 10 140.52 – 828,526 19 Oct 12 16 Jul 20
Substitute Share  
Bonus Award 116,148 – – 16 Jul 10 140.52 – 116,148 1 Sep 13 16 Jul 20
As disclosed previously, in order to facilitate the recruitment of Miles Roberts in unusual circumstances, and to ensure that his interests were directly  
and immediately aligned with those of the Company’s shareholders, the Company granted several conditional share awards as detailed below 
principally as compensation for lost entitlements to bonus, deferred share awards and long-term share incentive awards relating to his previous 
employer, McBride plc. 
The awards made to him were as follows:
• Substitute Share Bonus Award as compensation for loss of his share bonus entitlement with his previous employer for the year 2009/10 as  
a result of his recruitment by the Company. The value of shares awarded reﬂects the proportion of the period of 12 calendar months beginning  
on 1 July 2009 during which Miles Roberts was actively employed by McBride plc and was based on an assessment of the likely bonus which  
would have become payable to him had he remained employed by McBride plc. 
• Replacement Deferred Shares Award. This award reﬂects the value of shares as at October 2009 which Miles Roberts forfeited as a result of  
his recruitment by the Company. As this award replaces an award with vesting dependent only on continued employment, the vesting of the 
Replacement Deferred Shares Award is not subject to performance conditions. The award vested in full and became exercisable on  
1 September 2012. 
• The Replacement 2008 LTIP (subject to performance conditions as detailed below) was awarded in respect of an award made by his previous 
employer and forfeited as a result of his recruitment. The value of this award was based on the value of shares under award at October 2009. The 
award is subject to a performance condition measuring the TSR of McBride plc up to the date Miles Roberts joined the Company and thereafter the 
Company’s TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) constituted as at the date of 
grant of the award over a three-year performance period commencing on 1 July 2008. The award vested in full and became exercisable on  
17 October 2011. 
• The Recruitment Award (subject to the 2010 PSP performance conditions as described on page 67 of this Report) was made to facilitate his 
recruitment and in lieu of the 2009 LTIP award which he would have been granted at McBride plc if he had remained in employment. The value  
of the award was based on the normal grant policy of 150% of his basic salary. The award vested in full and became exercisable on  
19 October 2012.               69
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2012/13
The Board is ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but delegates responsibility to the Committee. The Committee addressed the following 
main issues during the year: 
June 2012
Key agenda item
• Authorised 2012 bonus payments.
• Approved targets for 2013 bonus plan.
•  Approved 2012 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
•  Reviewed the Executive Directors’ and senior 
executives’ pay/incentive arrangements.
•  Oversight of remuneration policy for senior 
management and employees.
•  Review of the Chairman’s fees.
•  2012 PSP award – TSR, EPS and ROACE 
range proposals.
•  Approved changes to the rules of 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan regarding  
‘good leavers’.
•  Considered a proposal for the hedging of 
shares to satisfy Executive share awards.
September 2012
Key agenda item
•  Received an update 
on the 2012/13 
Remuneration Policy 
investor consultation.
•  Conﬁrmed  
performance outcome 
for Miles Roberts’ 
Replacement Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan and 
Recruitment Award 
which vested in 
September and 
October 2012 
respectively.
•   Reviewed proposed 
incentive arrangements 
for former SCA senior 
executives.
January 2013
Key agenda item
•  Consideration of 
impact of revised 
legislation on 
Directors’ Report on 
Remuneration.
•  Update on 2012/13 
annual Bonus Scheme.
•  Considered the 
approach to 2013 
share incentive 
awards.
March 2013
Key agenda item
•  Reviewed the targets  
for existing awards.
•  Discussed the impact  
of revised legislation  
on presentation of 
Directors’ Report 
on Remuneration.
•  Reviewed composition 
of the Committee.
April 2013
Key agenda item
•  Received a further update 
on the 2012/13 
Remuneration Policy 
investor consultation.
At the Company’s AGM in 2012 the 2011/12 Directors’ Remuneration Report received a majority ‘for’ vote of 66.8% (2011 – 78.5%).
The Committee actively considered feedback received from shareholders prior to and following the 2012 AGM and also closely monitored guidance 
and directional themes emerging from institutional shareholder bodies and the United Kingdom government during the year on the subject of executive 
remuneration. On the basis of this, the Committee has taken the following actions: 
Benchmarking: the Committee uses market comparisons with caution. They assist in informing on the market rate for a role but are only one factor  
to consider. Since the SCA Packaging acquisition, the Group has now nearly doubled in terms of employees to around 20,000 and in turnover to 
circa £4 billion (includes two months of pre-acquisition SCA Packaging revenue). The complexity of the business has also increased with the addition 
of operations in 15 more countries, making it signiﬁcantly more international than many other companies of its size. The Committee used enterprise 
value (i.e. market capitalisation plus debt) as an appropriate measure of size in 2012. This caused concern for some shareholders and, for 
2013/14, the Committee will be using a comparator group constructed on the basis of similar market capitalisations, revenues and level of 
internationality to DS Smith.
To facilitate clearer narrative reporting, the Committee has reviewed the structure and content of the Directors’ Remuneration Report with a view to 
improving clarity and understanding. The Committee expects this to be an ongoing evolving process, as more details become available from the 
United Kingdom government on any changes to remuneration disclosure requirements and legislative changes to shareholder voting rights in the 
United Kingdom, following their consultations during the year on these topics.
The Committee also provided the opportunity for some of the Company’s major shareholders and their representative bodies to meet with the 
Committee Chairman during the year to discuss remuneration matters generally. Further opportunities for consultation will be made in the year ahead.
The Committee has been considering how to ensure that key management performance and remuneration is aligned with the interests of our  
investors. The Committee believes this can best be achieved by having key management well rewarded for achieving truly stretching objectives, and 
furthermore that the shape of this reward should emphasise the development of a signiﬁcant shareholding in the Company by those key managers. 
The Company has consulted with its major shareholders, the Association of British Insurers and ISS/RREV about the details of the remuneration 
arrangements summarised in the policy table. 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders’ approval of the Remuneration Report will be sought at the forthcoming 
AGM. The Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
In the year to come, the Remuneration Committee expects to focus on:
• Preparing for legislative changes in reporting requirements and shareholder voting rights to be implemented by the United Kingdom government.
• Reviewing and assessing the ongoing appropriateness of current executive remuneration plan design and target stretch.
• Ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain talent, and reward company performance with a focus on maintaining the link 
between performance and reward.
• Understanding and responding to shareholder feedback and fostering more continuous open dialogue. 
The Board, in conjunction with the Committee, has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the Company complies with the provisions of the Code 
which relate to Directors’ remuneration. 
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Schedule 8) and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The Committee conﬁrms that throughout the 
year it has complied with governance rules and best practice provisions. 
The Regulations require the Auditor to report to shareholders on the audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the 
relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act. The Auditor’s opinion is set out in the Auditor’s Report and we have clearly marked 
the audited sections of the Report. 
The members of the Committee have no personal ﬁnancial interest, other than as shareholders of the Company, in the matters to be decided by  
the Committee, no potential conﬂicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business. 
New Bridge Street (a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited) has been appointed by the Committee to provide advice on the remuneration of Executive 
Directors and other senior executives. New Bridge Street also provides advice to the Company in connection with the operation of the Company’s 
share-based incentive schemes. The Committee consults with the Chairman of the Company and with the Group Chief Executive, who may attend 
meetings of the Committee, although they are not involved in deciding their own remuneration. The Committee is assisted by the Company Secretary 
and the Group Human Resources Director. New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for remuneration consultants and a member of 
the Remuneration Consultants Group. Neither New Bridge Street nor any other part of Aon Hewitt provided any other services to the Company 
during the year. 
On behalf of the Board  
Chris Bunker 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
26 June 2013               71
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors submit their Annual Report  
and the audited ﬁnancial statements for the 
ﬁnancial year ended 30 April 2013. The 
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of 
information to auditors, as required by  
Section 418(2) of the Companies Act  
2006, is on page 73.
Principal activities
The Company acts as the holding company  
of a group, which, during 2012/13, was 
engaged in the international supply of recycled 
packaging for consumer goods. 
A full review of the activities during the  
ﬁnancial year ended 30 April 2013 is set  
out on pages 1 to 47. The principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group are discussed  
on pages 43 to 47. A discussion of future 
developments and key performance indicators 
that management use is set out in the Business 
Review on page 21. Financial information, 
including ﬁnancial instruments, is shown on 
pages 30 to 33. The principal subsidiary 
undertakings are listed in note 32 on  
page 122. 
Business Review
The information that fulﬁls the requirements  
of the Business Review can be found in the 
Business Review on pages 1 to 47, which  
are incorporated in this Report by reference. 
Corporate Governance statement
The information that fulﬁls the requirements of 
the Corporate Governance statement can be 
found in the Corporate Governance section on 
pages 50 to 57 (and is incorporated into this 
report by reference) with the exception of the 
information referred to in the United Kingdom 
Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules 7.2.6, which is shown in this 
Directors’ Report.
Cautionary statement
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide 
information to the members of the Company,  
as a body, and no-one else. The Company, its 
Directors, employees, agents and advisers do 
not accept or assume responsibility to any other 
person to whom this document is shown or into 
whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
The Annual Report contains certain forward 
looking statements with respect to the 
operations, performance and ﬁnancial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results and 
developments to differ from those anticipated. 
The forward-looking statements reﬂect 
knowledge and information available at the 
date of preparation of this Annual Report and 
the Company undertakes no obligation to 
update these forward-looking statements. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a proﬁt forecast. 
Results for the year
The ﬁnancial results are shown on pages  
76 to 122. 
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.5 pence net per 
ordinary share was paid on 1 May 2013 and  
the Directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 
5.5 pence net per ordinary share which, 
together with the interim dividend, increases  
the total dividend for the year to 8.0 pence 
(2011/12: 5.9 pence). Subject to approval 
of shareholders at the AGM to be held on  
3 September 2013, the ﬁnal dividend will be 
paid on 1 November 2013 to shareholders  
on the register at the close of business on  
4 October 2013. The dividends per ordinary 
share stated above are those actually paid or 
to be paid. Historic dividends per share have 
been restated in the ﬁve-year summary on 
page 128. 
Share capital
Details of the issued share capital and the rights 
and restrictions attached to the shares, together 
with details of movements in the Company’s 
issued share capital during the year, are shown 
in note 23. Pursuant to the Company’s 
employee share option schemes, 1,652,485 
ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued 
during the year and 74,957 shares pursuant  
to the Company’s employee share option 
schemes were issued between 1 May 2013 
and 26 June 2013 inclusive. The Company 
has not utilised its authority to make market 
purchases of shares granted to it at the 2012 
AGM, but will be seeking to renew such 
authority at this year’s Meeting. 
Acquisitions and divestments
SCA Packaging Acquisition
On 30 June 2012, the Group acquired  
the packaging division of Svenska Cellulosa 
Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) excluding its kraftliner 
assets (‘SCA Packaging’). The acquisition was 
effected by the purchase of equity of 100%  
of SCA Packaging Holding BV and SCA 
Packaging Nicollet SAS for €1.6 billion on  
a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible 
and commercially practicable, pension  
free basis.
SCA Packaging was the second largest 
packaging business in Europe and the 
acquisition represents a signiﬁcant opportunity 
for the Group to achieve its stated strategic aim 
of becoming the leading supplier of recycled 
packaging for consumer goods in Europe.
Disposals
On 25 May 2012, the European  
Commission granted competition clearance  
for the SCA Packaging acquisition. The 
clearance required the Group to divest three 
sites after the acquisition, which represent 
approximately 1% of the enlarged Group 
proﬁt. All three remedy disposal sites were 
divested during the year for total proceeds  
of £42.6 million.
The Group made additional minor disposals  
for proceeds of £8.2 million, net of cash  
and cash equivalents. These include the 
Group’s associate GAE Smith, UK packaging 
disposals and the sale of the Group’s 
Norwegian subsidiary.
In April 2013, DS Smith received £7.2 million 
in relation to ﬁnal settlement of the disposal of 
its Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling Division in 
2011/12 to Unipapel SA, which was 
recorded in discontinued operations in 
exceptional items.
Ordinary shares 
disclosed as at  
30 April 2013 %
Ordinary shares  
disclosed as at 
26 June 2013 %
Standard Life Investments Ltd 140,223,806 15.1% 139,169,233 15.0%
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 54,485,140 5.9% 45,477,111 4.9%
Notiﬁable interests in the Company’s issued ordinary share capital in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority. 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Research and development
One of the key ways in which the Group  
seeks to differentiate itself is the use of 
sophisticated design tools to ensure that the 
best packaging designs are offered, in order  
to optimise packaging in our customers’ supply 
chain and bring reductions in carbon footprint. 
Research is conducted into design tool 
development, new types of corrugated 
packaging and innovative applications of it, 
such as R-Flute
®
, which is then rolled out 
through the organisation. The Group has a 
number of patented designs that are offered to 
customers across the business.
Directors
The biographies of the present Directors  
are on pages 48 and 49. All the Directors 
served throughout the year except as follows:  
Kathleen O’Donovan joined the Board as  
a non-Executive Director on 5 December 2012 
and Chris Britton joined the Board as a 
non-Executive Director on 6 March 2013.  
As announced on 4 July 2012, Chris Bunker 
will step down after the AGM in September.  
Steve Dryden informed the Company on  
8 January 2013 that he intends to step down 
from the Board. On 20 June 2013, the 
Company announced the appointment of 
Adrian Marsh as Group Finance Director, 
joining the Board later this year, currently 
expected to be in September 2013. Steve 
Dryden will leave the Company on 28 June 
2013. During the short interim period, David 
Matthews, the Group’s Financial Controller, will 
perform the role of Group Finance Director, but 
will not be appointed to the Board. Other than 
as previously disclosed in this Report and in 
respect of existing service agreements, no 
Director, either during or at the end of the 
ﬁnancial year, has been materially interested in 
any signiﬁcant contract or arrangement in 
relation to the Group’s business. 
The rules regarding the appointment and 
replacement of Directors are contained in the 
Company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’), 
which may only be amended with shareholder 
approval in accordance with relevant 
legislation. The powers of the Directors are 
contained in the Company’s Articles. The 
Articles give the Directors powers, subject to 
relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and 
buy-back of the Company’s shares by the 
Company, subject to authority being given to 
the Directors by shareholders in general 
meeting. The Company annually seeks the 
authority of shareholders to authorise the 
exercise by Directors of these powers.
Re-election of Directors
The Articles require that all Directors who have 
either been appointed by the Board since the 
last AGM, or for whom the forthcoming AGM 
is the third AGM since they were elected or last 
re-elected by the Company in general meeting, 
retire from ofﬁce but they are eligible to submit 
themselves for re-election by the shareholders. 
However, in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, which 
recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies be subject to annual re-election,  
the Board has agreed that each Director shall 
stand for re-appointment at each AGM. 
Formal performance evaluation, as described 
in detail on page 52, has conﬁrmed that the 
individual performance of the Directors offering 
themselves for election or re-election has been 
effective and they have demonstrated 
commitment to the role. 
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors and their 
immediate families in the ordinary shares of  
10 pence each of the Company (in terms of 
shares, options and conditional share awards), 
were as shown in the tables in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 70. 
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into qualifying 
third-party indemnity arrangements for the 
beneﬁt of its Directors in a form and scope 
which comply with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Employee involvement and 
communications
The Group’s strategic goals are to realise  
the potential of all employees by creating an 
environment where people are proud to give 
their best and by encouraging all employees  
to live the Group’s values through everything 
they do. More information can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibilities section on pages  
34 to 42.
Equal opportunities
DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer. 
The Group is ﬁrmly committed to both the 
principle and realisation of equal opportunities 
and its policies are designed to provide such 
equality irrespective of age, disability, sex, 
sexual orientation, race, religion or nationality. 
Every possible step is taken to ensure that 
individuals are treated equally and fairly. The 
Group applies the same criteria to people with 
disabilities as it does to other employees. 
Where appropriate, facilities are adapted  
and retraining is offered to any employee who 
develops a disability during their employment.
Pension fund
The Group had, in the year under review, three 
UK pension arrangements: one deﬁned beneﬁt 
scheme (which closed to future service beneﬁts 
with effect from 30 April 2011 and all affected 
members of the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme were 
offered membership of the Group’s deﬁned 
contribution scheme for future service); one 
deﬁned contribution scheme, which was 
introduced for new employees joining the 
Group on or after 1 May 2005; and a 
statutory Stakeholder arrangement.
The deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is a trust-based 
arrangement and the investments of the assets 
are managed on a discretionary basis by a 
number of investment managers, in either 
segregated or pooled arrangements.
The deﬁned contribution scheme is a trust-based 
arrangement offering members a range of 
investments. The trustees have selected  
Friends Life as the preferred provider and the 
Stakeholder arrangement is provided through 
Investment Solutions Limited. All such assets are 
held independently from the Group. The 
trustees of the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme and the 
deﬁned contribution scheme send an Annual 
Report to all members of the respective 
schemes. The Trustee Company of the  
deﬁned beneﬁt scheme has an Investment 
Sub-Committee, established in line with the 
recommended guidelines of the Myners Report. 
Peter Murray of AllenbridgeEpic Investment 
Advisers is appointed as an independent 
adviser to the Investment Sub-Committee of  
the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued               73
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Health and safety
The Group recognises its responsibilities  
and continues to promote all aspects of health  
and safety in the interests of its employees and 
members of the public. A Health and Safety 
Policy Statement has been approved by  
the Board. More information can be found  
in the Corporate Responsibility section  
on page 39.
Signiﬁcant agreements
The Company is required to disclose any 
signiﬁcant agreements that take effect, alter  
or terminate on a change of control of the 
Company. The Company has a number of 
borrowing facilities and related derivative 
contracts provided by various lenders. These 
agreements generally include change of control 
provisions which, in the event of a change of 
ownership of the Company, could result in 
renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities. 
These signiﬁcant agreements are as set out in 
note 19. 
There are a number of other agreements that 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control of the Company following a takeover 
bid, such as commercial contracts and joint 
venture agreements. None is considered to be 
signiﬁcant in terms of their potential impact on 
the business of the Group as a whole.
Payment to suppliers
Although the Company does not follow any 
formal code or standard on payment practice, 
the Company agrees terms and conditions in 
the UK with each supplier, which include terms 
of payment. The Company pays each supplier 
accordingly, subject to all the terms and 
conditions of the order being satisﬁed by such 
supplier. As DS Smith Plc is a holding company, 
whose principal business is to hold shares in 
Group companies, it has no trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations
The Group contributed £76,000 (2011/12: 
£78,000) to charities. No payments were 
made to political parties. Donations were 
made by operating divisions to support their 
local communities. The Group also supported  
a number of other charities across a range  
of causes.
The DS Smith Charitable Foundation was 
established in 2011 to provide support to 
charities in areas aligned with the activities and 
values of the business. More information about 
the work of the Foundation can be found  
on page 42.
Registered ofﬁce
The Group Head Ofﬁce is relocating to  
central London later in the calendar year, at 
which time the registered ofﬁce will change  
to the new address.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the AGM of the Company to  
be held on 3 September 2013, together with 
explanatory notes, is given in the booklet which 
accompanies this report. 
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to 
exercise any or all of their rights to attend and 
speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM. 
Please note all proxy appointments must be 
received by the Registrars no later than  
48 hours before the start of the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
Each Director conﬁrms that:
(a)  so far as they are aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s Auditor is unaware; and
(b)  they have taken all the steps they ought  
to have taken as a Director in order to  
make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s Auditor is aware of  
that information.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as  
Auditor of the Company and to authorise  
the Directors to determine the remuneration  
will be put to the AGM.
By Order of the Board
Matt Jowett
Group General Counsel and  
Company Secretary 
26 June 2013 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing  
the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required to 
prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by  
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and have chosen to prepare the 
parent Company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for 
that period.
In preparing the parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and  
then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the ﬁnancial statements; and
• prepare the ﬁnancial statements on  
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the  
Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group ﬁnancial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that Directors:
• properly select and apply  
accounting policies;
• present information, including  
accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the speciﬁc requirements  
in IFRSs is insufﬁcient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions  
on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and  
ﬁnancial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are  
sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position  
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate  
and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the relevant ﬁnancial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial 
position and proﬁt or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the management report, which is 
incorporated into the Directors’ Report, 
includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive 
26 June 2013
Steve Dryden
Group Finance Director 
26 June 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued               75
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF DS SMITH PLC 
We have audited the financial statements of DS Smith Plc for the  
year ended 30 April 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the 
Parent Company Balance Sheet, the related notes 1 to 32 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 12 to the 
Parent Company Balance Sheet. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the  
Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted  
Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in  
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted  
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than  
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit  
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs at 30 April 2013 and  
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by  
the IASB 
As explained in note 1(a) to the Group financial statements, the Group  
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by  
the International Standards Board (IASB). 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year  
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements.  
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are  
not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we  
require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement contained within Corporate Governance  
in relation to going concern;  
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review; and 
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on  
Directors’ remuneration.  
 
Peter O’Donoghue FCA 
(Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor  
London, United Kingdom 
26 June 2013 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
76 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
Year ended 30 April 2013 
  Exceptional items 
(note 4) 
  Exceptional items  
(note 4) 
 
Continuing operations Note
Before
exceptional
items 
2013
£m 
SCA 
Packaging
2013
£m 
Other
 2013
£m 
After 
exceptional 
items 
2013
£m 
Before 
exceptional 
items  
2012 
£m 
SCA 
Packaging 
 2012 
£m 
Other 
2012
£m 
After 
exceptional 
items 
2012
£m
Revenue 2 3,669.3 – – 3,669.31,969.4 – –1,969.4
Cost of sales (1,945.6) – – (1,945.6)(1,505.4) – –(1,505.4)
Gross profit 1,723.7 – – 1,723.7464.0 – –464.0
Operating expenses 3, 4 (1,472.8) – (10.0) (1,482.8)(322.0) – (70.1)(392.1)
Operating profit before amortisation and 
acquisition and integration related costs 2 250.9 – (10.0) 240.9142.0 – (70.1) 71.9
Amortisation of intangible assets  
and acquisition related costs 4, 10 (44.9) (11.8) – (56.7) (8.1) (18.4) – (26.5)
SCA Packaging integration costs 4 – (57.8) – (57.8) – – – –
Operating profit 206.0 (69.6) (10.0) 126.4 133.9 (18.4) (70.1) 45.4
Finance income 5 3.1 – – 3.1 2.1 – – 2.1
Finance costs 5 (39.5) – – (39.5) (20.5) – – (20.5)
Employment benefit net finance expense 24 (4.6) – – (4.6) (4.8) – – (4.8)
Net financing costs (41.0) – – (41.0) (23.2) – – (23.2)
Profit after financing costs 165.0 (69.6) (10.0) 85.4 110.7 (18.4) (70.1) 22.2
Share of profit/(loss) of associates 12 1.2 – – 1.2 (0.5) – – (0.5)
Profit before income tax, amortisation and 
acquisition and integration related costs 211.1 – (10.0) 201.1118.3 – (70.1) 48.2
Amortisation of intangible assets  
and acquisition related costs 4, 10 (44.9) (11.8) – (56.7) (8.1) (18.4) – (26.5)
SCA Packaging integration costs 4 – (57.8) – (57.8) – – – –
Profit before income tax 166.2 (69.6) (10.0) 86.6 110.2 (18.4) (70.1) 21.7
Income tax (expense)/credit 7 (36.3) 16.7 3.3 (16.3) (30.6) 1.9 15.4 (13.3)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 129.9 (52.9) (6.7) 70.3 79.6 (16.5) (54.7) 8.4
Discontinued operations   
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 30 –– 7.2 7.2 9.3 – 58.0 67.3
Profit for the year 129.9 (52.9) 0.5 77.5 88.9 (16.5) 3.3 75.7
 
Profit for the year attributable to:   
Owners of the parent 129.5 (52.9) 0.5 77.1 88.5 (16.5) 3.3 75.3
Non-controlling interests 0.4 – – 0.4 0.4 – – 0.4
 
Earnings per share 2013   2012
Adjusted from continuing operations
*
   
Basic 8 17.4p  12.8p
Diluted  8 17.3p  12.7p
From continuing operations   
Basic 8 7.6p  1.2p
Diluted 8 7.5p  1.2p
From continuing and discontinued operations   
Basic 8.4p  11.1p
Diluted 8.3p  10.9p
* Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.                 77
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Year ended 30 April 2013 
 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains on employee benefits 24 (72.8) 16.1
Foreign currency translation differences   54.0 (14.2)
Reclassification from translation reserve to income statement arising on divestment  – (9.8)
Movements in cash flow hedges   (20.1) (6.6)
Income tax on other comprehensive income 7 25.6 (14.3)
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax  (13.3) (28.8)
 
Profit for the year  77.5 75.7
 
Total comprehensive income for the year  64.2 46.9
 
Total comprehensive income attributable to:   
Owners of the parent  63.7 47.0
Non-controlling interests  0.5 (0.1)
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
78 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
At 30 April 2013 
 
Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 10 1,044.3 309.7
Property, plant and equipment 11 1,371.2 598.3
Investment in associates 12 24.3 9.5
Other investments 13 5.6 –
Deferred tax assets 21 78.6 46.1
Other receivables 15 2.8 2.4
Derivative financial instruments 20 9.4 7.6
Total non-current assets  2,536.2 973.6
Current assets  
Inventories 14 284.8 146.8
Other investments 13 16.8 0.1
Income tax receivable  5.5 0.7
Trade and other receivables  15 643.7 291.7
Cash and cash equivalents 18 116.4 664.5
Derivative financial instruments  20 1.4 3.1
Assets classified as held for sale  1.5 –
Total current assets  1,070.1 1,106.9
Total assets  3,606.3 2,080.5
Liabilities  
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (903.9) (227.6)
Employee benefits 24 (214.0) (104.2)
Other payables 16 (9.7) (9.9)
Provisions 22 (39.2) (7.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (155.7) (51.9)
Derivative financial instruments  20 (20.8) (3.4)
Total non-current liabilities  (1,343.3) (404.4)
Current liabilities  
Bank overdrafts 18 (37.9) (11.3)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (20.2) (93.4)
Trade and other payables 16 (955.8) (431.6)
Income tax liabilities   (107.8) (25.4)
Provisions 22 (54.5) (36.7)
Derivative financial instruments  20 (1.9) (20.2)
Total current liabilities  (1,178.1) (618.6)
Total liabilities  (2,521.4) (1,023.0)
Net assets  1,084.9 1,057.5
Equity  
Issued capital 23 92.9 92.7
Share premium  710.0 710.2
Reserves  283.9 256.6
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 1,086.8 1,059.5
Non-controlling interests  (1.9) (2.0)
Total equity   1,084.9 1,057.5
Approved by the Board of Directors of DS Smith Plc, (company registered number 1377658) on 26 June 2013 and signed on its behalf by 
 
M W Roberts, Director  S W Dryden, Director 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.                79
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
Year ended 30 April 2013 
 Note 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share
premium
£m 
Hedging
reserve
£m 
Translation
reserve
£m 
Own
shares
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total reserves 
attributable 
to equity 
shareholders 
£m 
Non-
controlling
interests
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
At 1 May 2011  43.6 309.1 3.0 37.8 (9.4) 202.2 586.3 (2.1) 584.2
Profit for the year  – – – – – 75.3 75.3 0.4 75.7
Actuarial gains on employee benefits 24 – – – – – 16.1 16.1 – 16.1
Foreign currency translation differences  – – – (13.7) – – (13.7) (0.5) (14.2)
Reclassification from translation reserve to 
income statement arising  
on divestment  – – – (9.8) – – (9.8) – (9.8)
Cash flow hedges fair value changes  – – (10.0) – – (10.0) – (10.0)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve 
to income statement  – – 3.4 – – – 3.4 – 3.4
Income tax on other  
comprehensive income 7 – – 1.7 (7.9) – (8.1) (14.3) – (14.3)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income  – – (4.9) (31.4) – 83.3 47.0 (0.1) 46.9
Issue of share capital  49.1 401.1 – – – – 450.2 – 450.2
Ordinary shares purchased  – – – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Employee share trust  – – – – 1.8 – 1.8 – 1.8
Share-based payment  
expense (net of tax)  – – – – – 6.2 6.2 – 6.2
Dividends paid  9 – – – – – (31.5) (31.5) – (31.5)
Transactions with  
non-controlling interests 23 – – – – – (0.2) (0.2) 0.2 –
Other changes in equity in the year 49.1 401.1 – – 1.5 (25.5) 426.2 0.2 426.4
At 30 April 2012  92.7 710.2 (1.9) 6.4 (7.9) 260.0 1,059.5 (2.0) 1,057.5
Profit for the year  – – – – – 77.1 77.1 0.4 77.5
Actuarial losses on employee benefits 24 – – – – – (72.8) (72.8) – (72.8)
Foreign currency translation differences  – – – 53.9 – – 53.9 0.1 54.0
Cash flow hedges fair value changes  – – (18.9) – – – (18.9) – (18.9)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve 
to income statement  – – (1.2) – – – (1.2) – (1.2)
Income tax on other  
comprehensive income 7 – – 4.6 5.0 – 16.0 25.6 – 25.6
Total comprehensive (expense)/income  – – (15.5) 58.9 – 20.3 63.7 0.5 64.2
Issue of share capital  0.2 (0.2) – – – – – – –
Ordinary shares purchased  – – – – (1.2) – (1.2) – (1.2)
Employee share trust  – – – – 7.4 (7.4) – – –
Share-based payment  
expense (net of tax)  – – – – – 1.2 1.2 – 1.2
Dividends paid  9 – – – – – (36.8) (36.8) – (36.8)
Transactions with  
non-controlling interests 23 – – – – – 0.4 0.4 (0.4) –
Other changes in equity in the year 0.2 (0.2) – – 6.2 (42.6) (36.4) (0.4) (36.8)
At 30 April 2013  92.9 710.0 (17.4) 65.3 (1.7) 237.7 1,086.8 (1.9) 1,084.9
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
Year ended 30 April 2013 
Continuing operations Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Operating activities  
Cash generated from operations 26 373.6 199.0
Interest received  0.2 0.4
Interest paid  (34.8) (20.2)
Tax paid  (41.7) (25.3)
Cash flows from operating activities  297.3 153.9
Investing activities  
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 30 (1,281.0) (2.3)
Divestment of subsidiary and associate businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 30 50.8 184.5
Capital expenditure  (161.0) (94.2)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  4.3 8.0
Proceeds from sale of other investments  0.1 0.3
Increase in restricted cash  (21.7) –
Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities  (1,408.5) 96.3
Financing activities  
(Transaction costs)/proceeds from issue of share capital  (0.4) 450.2
Purchase of own shares  (1.2) (0.3)
Increase in/(repayment of) borrowings  552.4 (72.0)
Increase in/(repayment of) finance lease obligations  0.4 (2.7)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 (36.8) (31.5)
Cash flows from financing activities  514.4 343.7
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations  (596.8) 593.9
Discontinued operations  
Cash from/(used in) discontinued operations 30 7.2 (29.0)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (589.6) 564.9
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May   653.2 88.2
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents  14.9 0.1
Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April  18 78.5 653.2               81
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
 
1. Significant accounting policies 
(a) Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved  
by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (‘adopted IFRSs’), and have also applied 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The 
Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP); 
these are presented on pages 123 to 127. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost 
basis except that assets and liabilities of certain financial instruments, 
defined benefit pension plans and share-based payments are stated at 
their fair value. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis as set out on page 57 of the Corporate Governance section. 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect whether and 
how policies are applied and affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities, income and expenses. Judgements made by management in the 
application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in  
the next year are discussed in accounting policy (v). 
No changes have been made to the Group’s accounting policies in the 
year ended 30 April 2013. The accounting policies set out below have 
been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated 
financial statements. The accounting policies have been applied 
consistently by all Group entities. 
(b) Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that 
control ceases. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or 
disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income 
statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date  
of disposal, as appropriate. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains 
and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions 
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
(ii) Associates 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and 
that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant 
influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy 
decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. 
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the total 
recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, 
from the date that significant influence commences until the date that 
significant influence ceases.  
(iii) Non-controlling interests 
Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in the 
statement of financial position net of the value of options over interests  
held by minorities in the Group’s subsidiaries. 
(c) Revenue 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, net of 
value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within 
the Group.  
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when: 
• the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards  
of ownership to the buyer; 
• all significant performance obligations have been met; 
• the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement  
nor effective control over the goods sold; 
• it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction 
will flow to the Group; and  
• the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.  
This is typically when either the goods are loaded onto the collection 
vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the goods are unloaded  
at the delivery address if the Group is responsible for delivery. 
(d) Government grants 
(i) Emission quotas 
The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. 
Emission quotas received in a period are initially recognised at a nominal 
value of nil. As a result, no asset or liability is initially recognised on the 
statement of financial position. A provision is recognised if there is any 
anticipated shortfall in the level of quotas received or purchased when 
compared with actual emissions in any given period, measured at the  
market price of such quotas at the balance sheet date. Excess emission 
quotas acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as 
intangible assets at their fair value on the date of acquisition. 
(ii) Other 
Other government grants are recognised in the statement of financial position 
initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that they will 
be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to 
them. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are offset 
against the expenses in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred. 
Grants relating to assets are released to the income statement over the 
expected useful life of the asset to which it relates on a basis consistent with 
the depreciation policy. Depreciation is provided on the full cost of the 
assets before deducting grants. 
(e) Dividends 
Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid during 
the year are recognised directly in equity.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
82 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS continued 
 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
(f) Foreign currency translation 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the  
foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance 
sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling 
at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost  
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates 
of the transactions. 
The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a functional 
currency other than sterling are translated at the closing exchange rate at 
the balance sheet date. Income and expenses for each income statement 
are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a 
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing 
on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are 
translated at the date of the transactions).  
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the 
net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings, and other financial 
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in 
the translation reserve. On the disposal of foreign currency entities, the 
cumulative exchange difference recorded in the translation reserve is taken 
to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal. 
(g) Intangible assets 
(i) Goodwill 
The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the  
purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable assets 
acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. 
The Group makes judgements and estimates in relation to the fair value 
allocation of the purchase price.  
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The useful  
life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite. Goodwill is allocated to the 
cash generating units (CGUs), or groups of CGUs, that are expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the combination and is tested annually for 
impairment; or more frequently if impairment is indicated.  
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss 
recognised in the income statement.  
(ii) Intellectual property 
Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation  
and impairment losses. 
(iii) Computer software 
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is  
included within tangible fixed assets. All other computer software is  
treated as an intangible asset. 
(iv) Research and development 
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining 
new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised  
in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Expenditure on 
development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan  
or design for the production of new or substantially improved products  
and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and 
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to  
complete development.  
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour 
and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development 
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as 
incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
(v) Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.  
(vi) Amortisation 
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding goodwill) is charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives  
of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets (other 
than goodwill) are amortised from the date they are available for use.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Intellectual property Up to 20 years
Computer software 3 – 5 years
Customer relationships 5 – 15 years
Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet 
date, and when there is an indication of impairment. 
(h) Property, plant and equipment and other investments 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses.  
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant and 
equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately  
(or in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if shorter). Land is  
not depreciated. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10 – 50 years
Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings  
(including IT hardware) 2 – 25 years
Motor vehicles 3 – 5 years
Other investments consist of available for sale investments in unquoted 
equity and debt securities which are carried at cost, less any impairment, 
and restricted cash.                83
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
(i) Impairment  
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, including tangible and 
intangible non-current assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill  
is tested for impairment annually at the same time, regardless of the 
presence of an impairment indicator. An impairment loss is recognised 
whenever the carrying amount of an asset, collection of assets or its CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the  
income statement. 
(i) Cash generating units 
For the purposes of impairment testing, each region, split by process,  
is a separate CGU. Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment 
and other intangibles is carried out at an individual CGU level. Goodwill 
impairment testing is carried out based on regional groupings of CGUs  
as illustrated in note 10, as this is the lowest level at which goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes. 
(ii) Calculation of recoverable amount 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s assets is calculated as the  
value-in-use of the CGU to which the assets are attributed. Value-in-use is 
calculated by discounting the cash flows expected to be generated by the 
CGU/group of CGUs being tested for evidence of impairment. This is 
done using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the 
time value of money or the net selling price, if greater, and the country 
specific risks for which the cash flows have not been adjusted. For an asset 
that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable 
amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.  
(iii) Reversals of impairment 
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. In respect  
of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment 
loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
(j) Derivative financial instruments  
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, 
currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and 
commodity risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities 
and the financing of these activities. The Group has a policy not to,  
and does not undertake any speculative activity in these instruments.  
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value  
on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as  
assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair  
value is negative. 
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when 
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the 
financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk. 
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: 
• fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the  
fair value of a recognised asset or liability; 
• cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a statement 
of financial position item or a highly probable forecast transaction; or 
• hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity. 
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging 
relationship as follows: 
Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for 
gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged and the derivative is 
remeasured at fair value. Gains and losses from both the hedged item and 
the fair value of derivatives are taken to the income statement. The Group 
discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires 
or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria 
for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation. 
Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to equity are 
transferred to the income statement in the same period during which the 
hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or 
purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial 
asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial 
carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.  
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without 
replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases to be highly 
probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously 
recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs 
and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount 
of a non-financial asset liability as above. If a forecast transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are 
transferred to the income statement. 
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion of  
the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, 
while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when  
the foreign entity is sold. 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other 
derivatives are taken to the income statement. These may arise from 
derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are 
not effective as hedging instruments. 
The net present value of the expected future payments under options over 
interests held by minorities in the Group’s subsidiaries are shown as a 
financial liability. At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is 
reassessed with any changes recognised in the profit or loss for the period. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS continued 
 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
(k) Treasury shares 
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount  
of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised 
as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares 
and are presented as a deduction from total equity. 
(l) Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less  
impairment provisions. 
(m) Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course  
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes 
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their 
existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories 
and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads 
based on normal operating capacity. 
(n) Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part 
of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash 
and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. Cash 
and cash equivalents are stated at amortised cost. 
Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is excluded 
from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated financial statements 
and presented within other investments in the statement of financial 
position. Restricted cash is stated at amortised cost. 
(o) Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable 
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with borrowing costs being 
accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the 
effective interest method.  
At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately from  
the associated borrowings within current liabilities. 
(p) Employee benefits 
(i) Defined contribution schemes 
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised  
as an employee benefit expense within personnel expenses in the income 
statement, as incurred. 
(ii) Defined benefit schemes 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 
is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future 
benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current 
and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to its present value amount 
and recognised in the income statement as personnel expense; a 
corresponding liability for all future benefits is established on the statement 
of financial position and the fair value of any schemes’ assets is deducted.  
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit rated 
bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration of the 
schemes’ obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary 
using the projected unit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. 
(iii) Share-based payment transactions 
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.  
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the  
grant of the options is recognised as personnel expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees 
unconditionally become entitled to the awards. The fair value of the 
options granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The total 
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any  
non-market vesting conditions.  
At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the number  
of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the 
impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, 
and a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
(q) Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the 
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation, 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation. Provisions are discounted to present value where the 
effect is material. 
(r) Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost. 
(s) Leases 
(i) Finance leases 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group  
at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments. Depreciation on leased assets is 
charged to the consolidated income statement on the same basis as 
owned assets. Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and 
interest elements and the interest is charged to the consolidated income 
statement so that a constant periodic rate of interest is recognised on the 
outstanding balance of the liability. 
(ii) Operating leases 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income  
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any premium or 
discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease  
on a straight-line basis. 
                 85
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
(t) Taxation 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and  
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly  
to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for  
the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any 
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of  
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts  
used for taxation purposes.  
The tax effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised,  
principally with respect to goodwill; temporary differences arising on 
the initial recognition of assets or liabilities (other than those arising in  
a business combination or in a manner that initially impacts accounting  
or taxable profit); and temporary differences relating to investment in 
subsidiaries and associates to the extent that they will probably not reverse 
in the foreseeable future and the Group is able to control the reversal of 
such temporary differences. The amount of deferred tax provided is based 
on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable  
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be 
utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
(u) Assets held for sale  
Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and  
liabilities, that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale  
rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale. 
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets, or 
components of a disposal group, are remeasured in accordance with  
the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter, generally the assets, or 
disposal group, are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and 
fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first 
allocated to goodwill, and then to the remaining assets and liabilities on  
a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial 
assets, deferred tax assets and employee benefit assets, which continue 
to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent 
gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. Gains 
are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. 
(v) Critical accounting policies  
The application of the Group’s accounting policies requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions; these estimates and assumptions affect 
the reported assets and liabilities and financial results of the Group. Actual 
outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. 
The Group’s accounting policies that are most critical to an understanding 
of the results and position of the Group, and the judgements involved in 
their application, are as follows: 
(i) Impairments 
When applying IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’, the Group compares  
the carrying value of tangible and intangible non-current assets with the 
higher of their net realisable value and value-in-use to determine whether 
an impairment exists. Impairment testing is an area requiring  
management judgement.  
To determine the present value of expected future cash flows, certain 
assumptions have to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters 
including management’s expectations of (a) the discount rates reflecting  
the risks involved, (b) the timing and quantum of capital expenditure,  
(c) long-term growth rates and (d) the future development of the business. 
Whilst the Directors consider their assumptions to be realistic, if actual 
results differ from expectations the Group’s impairment evaluation could  
be significantly affected. In addition, the use of different estimates, 
assumptions and judgements, in particular those involved in (a) determining 
a value based on our current expectations of future conditions and the 
associated cash flows from the Group’s operations, (b) our determination 
of the level at which groups of assets can be reasonably tested for 
impairment separately from other parts of the business and (c) our treatment 
of centrally held assets, could each result in material differences in the 
carrying values of assets and assessments of impairment. See note 10  
for additional information. 
(ii) Acquisitions 
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method based on  
the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets and liabilities are measured 
at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities 
based on these fair values. Determining fair values involves the use of 
significant estimates and assumptions (including discount rates, asset lives, 
customer attrition rates and recoverability), and the value of intangible 
assets and property, plant and equipment on acquisition is typically 
determined by qualified valuers. 
(iii) Pensions and other employee benefits 
IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, requires the Group to make assumptions 
including, but not limited to, future asset returns, rates of inflation, discount 
rates and life expectancies. The use of different assumptions, in any of the 
above calculations, could have a material effect on the accounting values 
of the relevant statement of financial position assets and liabilities which 
could also result in a change to the cost of such liabilities as recognised in 
profit or loss over time. These assumptions are subject to periodic review. 
See note 24 for additional information. 
(iv) Provisions  
The Group measures provisions at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. 
These estimates are made, taking account of information available and 
different possible outcomes, and reviewed on a regular basis. 
(v) Taxation 
The Group’s tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and 
regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. The Group is required to exercise judgement in 
determining income tax provisions, along with the recognition of deferred 
tax assets/liabilities. While the Group aims to ensure that estimates 
recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from  
those expected.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
86 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS continued 
 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
(w) IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective 
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) have issued new standards 
and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.  
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS) 
Effective date – 
financial year ending 
IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’  30 April 2014
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements  30 April 2014
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements  30 April 2014
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 30 April 2014
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  30 April 2014
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 30 April 2014
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2014
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 30 April 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments  30 April 2016
IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ is considered to be the most significant of the forthcoming changes which is effective for the year ended  
30 April 2014 and requires the replacement of the expected rate of return on assets and interest charge on pension scheme liabilities with a net financing 
cost based on the discount rate. The impact on the employment benefit net finance expense for 2013/14 is expected to be an increase of c.£6m. 
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ending 30 April 2014  
will have a material effect on its financial statements. None of these standards have currently been endorsed by the EU.               87
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
2. Segment reporting 
Operating segments 
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of performance and allocation 
of resources by the Group Chief Executive (who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8). Further details of these business segments are 
given in the Business Review.  
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging during the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group changed its internal reporting structure and consequently the 
composition of its operating segments. Therefore, as required by IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’, the operating segment analysis for the comparative year 
ended 30 April 2012 has been restated. 
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Central administration costs are 
allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year-on-year. Assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment at a capital employed level, 
which excludes items of a financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and non-current asset investments. Debt and associated interest is 
managed at a Group level and therefore has not been allocated across the business areas.  
Year ended 30 April 2013 Note 
UK
£m 
Western 
Europe
£m 
DACH and 
Northern 
Europe 
£m 
Central 
 Europe  
and Italy 
£m 
Plastics
£m 
Total
Continuing 
Operations
£m 
External revenue  961.2 966.3 835.7 601.1 305.0 3,669.3
EBITDA  75.2 104.2 89.7 58.1 36.1 363.3
Depreciation 11 (27.6) (30.8) (27.3) (16.8) (9.9) (112.4)
Operating profit* 47.6 73.4 62.4 41.3 26.2 250.9
Other exceptional items  4 (4.6) 2.2 (5.4) (2.0) (0.2) (10.0)
Segment result 43.0 75.6 57.0 39.3 26.0 240.9
Unallocated items:   
Amortisation 10  (44.9)
Exceptional items – SCA Packaging acquisition costs 4  (11.8)
   – SCA Packaging integration costs 4  (57.8)
Total operating profit (continuing operations)   126.4
   
Analysis of total assets and total liabilities    
Segment assets 691.8 855.9 1,034.2 590.0 176.4 3,348.3
Unallocated items:   
Investment in associates and other assets   46.7
Derivative financial instruments   10.8
Cash and cash equivalents   116.4
Tax   84.1
Total assets   3,606.3
   
Segment liabilities (283.6) (354.7) (191.1) (206.5) (23.3) (1,059.2)
Unallocated items:   
Borrowings and accrued interest   (962.0)
Derivative financial instruments   (22.7)
Tax   (263.5)
Employee benefits   (214.0)
Total liabilities   (2,521.4)
* Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.  
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
88 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
2. Segment reporting continued 
Operating segments continued 
Year ended 30 April 2012 Note 
UK
£m
Western 
Europe
£m
DACH and 
Northern 
Europe 
£m 
Central  
Europe  
and Italy 
£m 
Plastics
£m
Total
Continuing 
Operations
£m 
External revenue  960.2 569.4 7.3 167.2 265.3 1,969.4
EBITDA  96.0 56.8 0.4 22.4 30.3 205.9
Depreciation 11 (31.6) (17.9) (0.1) (6.0) (8.3) (63.9)
Operating profit* 64.4 38.9 0.3 16.4 22.0 142.0
Other exceptional items  4 (67.5) (6.0) – (0.3) (6.3) (80.1)
Segment result (3.1) 32.9 0.3 16.1 15.7 61.9
Unallocated items:   
Amortisation 10  (8.1)
Exceptional items – investment in associate 4  10.0
   – SCA Packaging acquisition costs 4  (18.4)
Total operating profit (continuing operations)   45.4
   
Analysis of total assets and total liabilities    
Segment assets 513.7 526.0 1.8 169.1 138.3 1,348.9
Unallocated items:   
Investment in associates and other assets   9.6
Derivative financial instruments   10.7
Cash and cash equivalents   664.5
Tax   46.8
Total assets   2,080.5
   
Segment liabilities (239.2) (175.8) (0.3) (44.8) (16.6) (476.7)
Unallocated items:   
Borrowings and accrued interest   (341.2)
Derivative financial instruments   (23.6)
Tax   (77.3)
Employee benefits   (104.2)
Total liabilities   (1,023.0)
* Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items. 
                 89
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
2. Segment reporting continued 
Geographical areas 
In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers. Non-current assets are based  
on the geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and intangible assets (which are 
monitored at the operating segment level, not at a country level). 
 External revenue Non-current assets Capital expenditure 
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
UK 1,027.0 988.4 352.0 327.8 57.5 44.7
France 742.9 606.6 248.9 164.8 33.8 30.8
Germany 524.9 27.9 259.9 2.9 21.6 0.4
Italy 369.7 69.1 147.8 29.2 13.8 3.0
Rest of the World 1,004.8 277.4 365.4 76.0 34.3 15.3
 3,669.3 1,969.4 1,374.0 600.7 161.0 94.2
3. Operating profit 
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
 £m
Operating expenses 
Distribution  284.9 156.1
Administrative  1,197.9 236.0
 1,482.8 392.1
Details of exceptional items included in operating profit are set out in note 4. 
Operating profit is stated after charging the following: 
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
 £m
Depreciation – owned assets 110.5 62.3
 – leased assets 1.9 1.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 44.9 8.1
Hire of plant and machinery 15.3 12.0
Other operating lease rentals 17.3 8.3
Research and development 6.4 3.8
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 54 to 55 and includes an explanation of  
how the Auditor’s objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the Auditor. 
 2013 2012 
Auditor’s remuneration 
UK
£m 
Overseas
£m 
Total 
£m 
UK 
£m 
Overseas
£m 
Total
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for audit of the  
Company’s annual accounts 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services:   
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.4 1.0 0.3 0.5 0.8
Corporate finance services 0.5 – 0.5 1.2 – 1.2
Tax and other services 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 – 0.1
 1.3 0.5 1.8 1.7 0.5 2.2
Auditor’s remuneration includes continuing and discontinued operations. Total non-audit fees were £0.7m (2011/12: £1.3m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
90 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
4. Exceptional items  
Items are presented as ‘exceptional’ in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors consider should 
be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group. 
Continuing operations 
SCA Packaging 
acquisition 
costs 
2013 
£m 
SCA Packaging 
integration 
costs
2013
£m 
Other
 exceptional
 items
2013
£m 
Total
 exceptional
 items
2013
£m 
SCA Packaging 
acquisition 
costs 
2012 
£m 
Other
 exceptional
 items
2012
£m 
Total
exceptional
items
2012
 £m
Restructuring costs – – (14.3) (14.3) – (42.3) (42.3)
Acquisition related costs (11.8) (57.8) – (69.6) (18.4) – (18.4)
Pension settlement – – (2.2) (2.2) – – –
Impairment of assets – – (1.6) (1.6) – (36.5) (36.5)
Investment in associate – – – – – 10.0 10.0
Gain on divestment  – – 8.1 8.1 – – –
Other – – – – – (1.3) (1.3)
Total pre-tax exceptional items 
(recognised in operating profit) (11.8) (57.8) (10.0) (79.6) (18.4) (70.1) (88.5)
Income tax credit on exceptional items 0.9 15.8 3.3 20.0 1.9 15.4 17.3
Total post-tax exceptional items (10.9) (42.0) (6.7) (59.6) (16.5) (54.7) (71.2)
2012/13 
SCA Packaging acquisition costs of £11.8m relate to professional advisory fees, due diligence costs and other acquisition costs relating to the  
acquisition of the packaging division of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ), (‘SCA Packaging’).  
SCA Packaging integration costs primarily relate to costs associated with achieving cost synergies. 
Of the £14.3m restructuring costs, £7.7m relates to restructuring in the UK paper business and central services, £2.8m relates to reorganisations  
in Sweden, and the remainder is primarily attributable to restructuring in Germany and Poland. 
The gain on divestment primarily relates to the sale of the Group’s investment in the associate GAE Smith, the sale of European Commission remedy 
disposal sites (see note 30), and disposal of the Group’s Norwegian operations. 
2011/12 
SCA Packaging acquisition costs of £18.4m relate to the planned acquisition of the packaging division of SCA Packaging and consist of professional 
advisory fees, due diligence costs and other acquisition related costs.  
Of the £42.3m restructuring costs, £30.6m primarily relate to the restructuring of the UK packaging business and the exit costs from the closure and sale 
of two paper mills. Costs of £6.3m relate to restructuring in France and costs of £5.4m primarily relate to restructuring in Plastics in the UK and Germany.  
Total intangible asset, tangible fixed asset and inventory impairment charges are £36.5m and primarily relate to property, plant and equipment within 
the UK, principally paper assets.  
The exceptional gain of £10.0m relates to the Group’s associate investment in OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill (Rubezhansk). In 2008/09 
an exceptional loss of £18.1m was incurred when the carrying value of the Group’s investment was written down to £nil due to the uncertainty in the 
financial position of the business, following a breach of its banking covenants caused by exchange rate movements. In November 2011, revised 
facilities were agreed with the banks and hence it was considered appropriate to re-instate the investment in associate at fair value. 
                 91
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
5. Finance income and costs 
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
 £m
Interest on loans and overdrafts 37.9 19.6
Finance lease interest 0.2 0.3
Other 1.4 0.6
Finance costs 39.5 20.5
Interest income from financial assets  (1.1) (1.6)
Other (2.0) (0.5)
Finance income (3.1) (2.1)
Included within other finance income is £1.8m (2011/12: £nil) of hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges and fair value hedges. 
6. Personnel expenses  
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 448.8 294.4
Social security costs 91.5 34.8
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 20.3 6.5
Service costs for defined benefit schemes (note 24) 2.9 0.9
Share-based payment expense (note 25) 3.8 4.0
Personnel expenses 567.3 340.6
Average number of employees  
 2013
Number 
2012
Number
UK 5,542 5,216
Western Europe 4,360 2,897
DACH and Northern Europe  4,911 45
Central Europe and Italy 4,365 1,459
Rest of the World 558 533
Average number of employees 19,736 10,150
7. Income tax expense  
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Current tax expense  
Current year (74.0) (36.6)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 10.8 5.4
 (63.2) (31.2)
Deferred tax expense  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25.4 (1.8)
Reduction in UK tax rate 1.8 3.0
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.3) (0.6)
Total income tax expense before exceptional items  (36.3) (30.6)
Tax relating to SCA Packaging acquisition costs (note 4) 0.9 1.9
Tax relating to SCA Packaging integration costs (note 4) 15.8 –
Tax relating to other exceptional items (note 4) 3.3 15.4
Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations (16.3) (13.3)
Discontinued operations 
Total income tax expense before exceptional items – (4.8)
Tax relating to other exceptional items – (9.1)
Total income tax expense in the income statement from discontinued operations – (13.9) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
92 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
7. Income tax expense continued 
The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Profit before income tax –  
Continuing operations 86.6 21.7
Discontinued operations 7.2 81.2
Share of (profit)/loss of associates (1.2) 0.5
Profit before tax and share of (profit)/loss of associates 92.6 103.4
 
Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 23.92% (2011/12: 25.83%) (22.1) (26.7)
Effect of tax rates in overseas jurisdictions  (14.9) (7.0)
Additional items deductible for tax purposes 13.7 –
Non-deductible expenses (7.2) (9.1)
Gain on disposal of Office Products Wholesaling division 1.7 8.2
Utilisation of tax losses not recognised 0.2 0.1
Adjustment in respect of prior years 10.5 3.2
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 1.8 3.1
Other – 1.0
Income tax expense – total Group (16.3) (27.2)
Income tax expense from continuing operations (16.3) (13.3)
Income tax expense from discontinued operations – (13.9)
The Finance Act 2012 includes a 1% reduction to the main UK Corporation tax rate to 23% effective 1 April 2013. Accordingly, the rate applying to UK 
assets and liabilities has been reduced from 24% to 23%, creating a rate adjustment, which is partly reflected in the consolidated income statement, and 
partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
Further changes to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax have been announced, with a further 2% reduction to 21% at 1 April 2014, and a further 
fall to 20% at 1 April 2015 to be included in the Finance Bill 2013. The rate reduction from 23% to 20% has not yet been substantively enacted; had it 
been, the effect would have been to reduce the net deferred tax asset in the UK by £8.3m, of which it is estimated that £3.1m would have been 
credited to the consolidated income statement and £11.4m would have been charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity 
 
Gross
2013
£m 
Tax credit/
(charge)
2013
£m 
Net 
2013 
£m 
Gross 
2012 
£m 
Tax credit/
(charge)
2012
£m
Net
2012
£m 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on employee benefits (72.8) 16.0 (56.8) 16.1 (8.1) 8.0
Foreign currency translation differences and reclassification  
from translation reserve to income statement arising on divestment 54.0 5.0 59.0 (24.0) (7.9) (31.9)
Movements in cash flow hedges  (20.1) 4.6 (15.5) (6.6) 1.7 (4.9)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (38.9) 25.6 (13.3) (14.5) (14.3) (28.8)
Issue of share capital ––– 450.2 – 450.2
Ordinary shares purchased (1.2) – (1.2) (0.3) – (0.3)
Employee share trust ––– 1.8 – 1.8
Share-based payment expense 3.8 (2.6) 1.2 4.0 2.2 6.2
Dividends paid to Group shareholders (36.8) – (36.8) (31.5) – (31.5)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income and equity (73.1) 23.0 (50.1) 409.7 (12.1) 397.6
 
                 93
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
8. Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
2013 2012
Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders £69.9m £8.0m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  923.5m 680.6m
Basic earnings per share 7.6p 1.2p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
 2013 2012
Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders £69.9m £8.0m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  923.5m 680.6m
Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 7.9m 13.5m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)  931.4m 694.1m
Diluted earnings per share  7.5p 1.2p
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 
 2013  2012
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders  £7.2m £67.3m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 923.5m 680.6m
Basic earnings per share 0.8p 9.9p
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 
 2013 2012
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders  £7.2m £67.3m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  923.5m 680.6m
Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 7.9m 13.5m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)  931.4m 694.1m
Diluted earnings per share  0.8p 9.7p
The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Company’s own shares held as treasury shares during the year of 3.7m  
(2011/12: 7.0m). 
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations 
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and 
amortisation of intangible assets, better explains the underlying performance of the Group. A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is  
as follows: 
 2013 2012 
 £m 
Basic – 
pence 
per share 
Diluted – 
pence  
per share £m 
Basic – 
pence 
per share
Diluted –
pence
per share 
Basic earnings 69.9 7.6p 7.5p 8.0 1.2p 1.2p 
Add back amortisation, after tax 31.6 3.4p 3.4p 8.1 1.2p 1.2p 
Add back exceptional items, after tax 59.6 6.4p 6.4p 71.2 10.4p 10.3p 
Adjusted earnings 161.1 17.4p 17.3p 87.3 12.8p 12.7p 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
94 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
9. Dividends proposed and paid 
 2013 2012 
 Pence per 
share £m 
Pence per
share £m 
2011/12 final dividend – paid  4.0p 36.8 ––
2012/13 interim dividend  2.5p 23.1 1.9p 12.1
2012/13 final dividend – proposed 5.5p 50.9 4.0p 36.8
 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Paid during the year 36.8 31.5
The interim dividend in respect of 2012/13 of 2.5 pence per share (£23.1m) was paid after the year-end on 1 May 2013. The 2011/12 interim 
dividend was paid during the 2011/12 financial year. A final dividend in respect of 2012/13 of 5.5 pence per share (£50.9m) has been proposed 
by the Directors after the balance sheet date. 
10. Intangible assets 
 
Goodwill
£m 
Software
£m 
Intellectual 
property 
£m 
Customer 
related 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost   
At 1 May 2012 299.0 24.5 15.4 18.7 16.2 373.8
Acquisitions  329.9 7.2 9.7 348.7 37.5 733.0
Additions – 2.0 0.9 – 3.0 5.9
Disposals – (0.2) (0.1) – (2.8) (3.1)
Currency translation 22.8 1.5 2.6 17.3 2.4 46.6
At 30 April 2013 651.7 35.0 28.5 384.7 56.3 1,156.2
 
Amortisation and impairment    
At 1 May 2012 (27.4) (17.9) (7.7) (3.2) (7.9) (64.1)
Amortisation  – (3.6) (2.9) (31.9) (6.5) (44.9)
Disposals – 0.2 0.1 – 2.0 2.3
Currency translation (0.7) (0.7) (1.7) (1.3) (0.8) (5.2)
At 30 April 2013 (28.1) (22.0) (12.2) (36.4) (13.2) (111.9)
 
Carrying amount   
At 1 May 2012 271.6 6.6 7.7 15.5 8.3 309.7
At 30 April 2013 623.6 13.0 16.3 348.3 43.1 1,044.3
The amortisation charge for the year of £44.9m is included within continuing operating expenses (2011/12: £8.1m continuing operations,  
£0.2m profit from discontinued operations).  
The impairment charge for the year was £nil (2011/12: £7.3m). 
In the year ended 30 April 2013, intangible asset acquisitions of £733.0m, including £329.9m of goodwill, arose on the acquisition of SCA 
Packaging (see note 30). 
                 95
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
10. Intangible assets continued 
 
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Intellectual 
property 
£m 
Customer 
related 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m 
Cost   
At 1 May 2011 316.3 39.4 18.0 18.8 19.3 411.8
Acquisitions  0.3 – – – – 0.3
Additions – 4.3 0.2 – 0.9 5.4
Adjustment relating to business combination in previous year 2.1 – – – – 2.1
Divestments  (8.8) (16.9) (2.1) – – (27.8)
Disposals – (0.6) – – (1.9) (2.5)
Currency translation (10.9) (1.7) (0.7) (0.1) (2.1) (15.5)
At 30 April 2012 299.0 24.5 15.4 18.7 16.2 373.8
 
Amortisation and impairment    
At 1 May 2011 (21.2) (30.0) (7.7) (1.3) (6.8) (67.0)
Amortisation  – (2.2) (1.0) (1.9) (3.2) (8.3)
Impairment  (6.6) (0.7) – – – (7.3)
Divestments  – 13.1 0.8 – – 13.9
Disposals – 0.5 – – 1.7 2.2
Currency translation 0.4 1.4 0.2 – 0.4 2.4
At 30 April 2012 (27.4) (17.9) (7.7) (3.2) (7.9) (64.1)
 
Carrying amount   
At 1 May 2011 295.1 9.4 10.3 17.5 12.5 344.8
At 30 April 2012 271.6 6.6 7.7 15.5 8.3 309.7
An adjustment of £2.1m was made to the fair value of goodwill in 2011/12 relating to the acquisition of Otor in 2010/11. 
The 2011/12 amortisation charge of £8.3m was included within continuing operating expenses (£8.1m) and profit from discontinued  
operations (£0.2m). 
The divestment of goodwill relates to the sale of the Office Products Wholesaling division. 
Goodwill 
Following the acquisition of SCA Packaging during the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group changed its operating structure and consequently  
the number and composition of its operating segments (see note 2). Prior to the acquisition of SCA Packaging, there were three cash generating unit 
(CGU) groups identified which contained goodwill and following the acquisition there are now five CGU groups which correspond to the new  
operating segments.  
The CGU groups represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and are not larger than the operating 
segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. The carrying values of goodwill are split between the CGU groups as follows: 
 2013
£m 
2012*
£m  
UK 146.7 130.9 
Western Europe 151.5 102.6 
DACH and Northern Europe 220.9 – 
Central Europe and Italy 53.4 – 
Plastics 51.1 38.1 
Total goodwill 623.6 271.6 
* 2012 goodwill has been re-allocated to the new operating segments. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
96 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
10. Intangible assets continued 
Goodwill impairment tests – key assumptions and methodology 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. The recoverable amounts  
of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations. No impairment arose in the year ended 30 April 2013 as the recoverable amount 
of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.  
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: 
• the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budgets for the two years ending 30 April 2015 and are based 
upon past performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature of the business; 
• the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are the Directors’ estimates of likely future changes based upon historic 
performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates. These are viewed as the key operating assumptions  
as they determine the Directors’ approach to margin and cost maintenance;  
• the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure required to generate 
the terminal cash flows;  
• cash flows beyond the budgeted period (2016 and beyond) have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the CGU groups 
based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook Database. These resulted in an average growth rate 
for the total Group of 1.9%; and  
• the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) for the Group of 9.5% (2011/12: 10.1%). The 
WACC is a function of the cost of debt and equity. The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year UK gilts, adjusted for the UK 
market risk premium, which reflects the increased risk of investing in UK equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared  
to the market as a whole. This Group rate has been adjusted for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group operates that are not 
reflected in the cash flow projections. 
Goodwill impairment tests – sensitivities 
The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups. Whilst the Directors 
believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key assumptions were 
significantly changed. Factors which could cause an impairment are: 
• significant underperformance relative to the forecast results; and 
• further deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates. 
To support their assertions, the Directors’ have conducted sensitivity analyses to determine the impact that would result from the above situations.  
If estimates of future growth were reduced to 0% per annum, or if the estimated discount rates applied to the cash flows were increased by 1%, there 
would still be sufficient headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.  
Based on this analysis the Directors believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would cause the carrying 
value of CGU groups to exceed their recoverable amounts. Therefore at 30 April 2013 no impairment charge is required against the carrying value  
of goodwill. 
                 97
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
11. Property, plant and equipment 
 
Land and 
buildings
£m 
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings 
£m 
Under 
construction
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost   
At 1 May 2012 314.2 1,189.6 22.0 39.0 1,564.8
Acquisitions 279.0 354.4 18.5 64.5 716.4
Additions 13.5 84.3 4.9 36.1 138.8
Divestments (1.2) (3.4) – – (4.6)
Disposals  (2.1) (26.5) (2.4) – (31.0)
Transfers 6.6 64.3 1.6 (72.5) –
Reclassification to held for sale – (22.0) – – (22.0)
Currency translation 29.8 77.6 4.9 2.2 114.5
At 30 April 2013 639.8 1,718.3 49.5 69.3 2,476.9
 
Depreciation and impairment   
At 1 May 2012 (86.4) (864.7) (14.8) (0.6) (966.5)
Depreciation charge  (15.2) (91.7) (5.5) – (112.4)
Divestments 0.6 3.0 – – 3.6
Disposals 1.7 24.0 1.7 – 27.4
Reclassification to held for sale – 14.2 – – 14.2
Currency translation (14.0) (53.9) (4.1) – (72.0)
At 30 April 2013 (113.3) (969.1) (22.7) (0.6)(1,105.7)
 
Carrying amount   
At 1 May 2012 227.8 324.9 7.2 38.4 598.3
At 30 April 2013 526.5 749.2 26.8 68.7 1,371.2
The depreciation charge for the year of £112.4m is included within continuing operating expenses (2011/12: £63.9m continuing operating expenses, 
£0.6m profit from discontinued operations). 
The amounts above include land and buildings held under finance lease agreements. At 30 April 2013, the carrying amount of land and buildings held 
under finance leases was £6.6m (30 April 2012: £4.5m). 
Assets under construction mainly relate to production machines being built for various sites across the Group.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
98 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
11. Property, plant and equipment continued 
 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings 
£m 
Under 
construction
£m
Total
£m 
Cost   
At 1 May 2011 364.0 1,202.5 58.0 24.4 1,648.9
Additions 4.5 75.5 1.1 30.8 111.9
Divestments (36.4) (20.5) (34.2) – (91.1)
Disposals  (5.6) (32.8) (1.4) – (39.8)
Transfers 1.8 12.5 0.5 (14.8) –
Currency translation (14.1) (47.6) (2.0) (1.4) (65.1)
At 30 April 2012 314.2 1,189.6 22.0 39.0 1,564.8
 
Depreciation and impairment   
At 1 May 2011 (101.4) (859.9) (46.5) (0.6)(1,008.4)
Depreciation charge  (7.4) (55.8) (1.3) – (64.5)
Divestments 13.0 16.9 30.0 – 59.9
Disposals 4.1 24.2 1.4 – 29.7
Impairment  –(23.7) – –(23.7)
Currency translation 5.3 33.6 1.6 – 40.5
At 30 April 2012 (86.4) (864.7) (14.8) (0.6) (966.5)
 
Carrying amount   
At 1 May 2011 262.6 342.6 11.5 23.8 640.5
At 30 April 2012 227.8 324.9 7.2 38.4 598.3
The 2011/12 depreciation charge of £64.5m was included within continuing operating expenses (£63.9m) and profit from discontinued  
operations (£0.6m). 
                 99
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
12. Investment in associates 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
At 1 May 9.5 –
Acquisition 16.0 –
Disposal (3.1) –
Reinstatement of investment in associate at fair value – 10.0
Share of profit/(loss) of associates after interest and tax 1.2 (0.5)
Currency translation 0.7 –
At 30 April 24.3 9.5
The Group acquired associate investments in Turkey and Spain as part of the acquisition of SCA Packaging. 
The disposal during the year ended 30 April 2013 relates to a 50% investment in GAE Smith, which was acquired as part of SCA Packaging. 
Principal associates 
  
Principal country  
of operation 
 Ownership interest 
 Nature of business 2013 2012
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill (Rubezhansk) Paper and packaging Ukraine 49.6% 49.6%
Turkey Paper, packaging and recycling Turkey 49.0% –
Lantero Group Packaging Spain 25.0% –
The Group accounts for its investments in Rubezhansk and Turkey as associates because the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over  
the investment due to the Group’s equity holdings, but the Group does not have control over these investments under IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements’ because it does not, by virtue of its shareholding or other agreement, have more than half the voting rights. 
All associates are accounted for using the equity method within these financial statements. 
Rubezhansk 
In 2008/09, the Group fully impaired the carrying value of its investment in Rubezhansk due to a breach in Rubezhansk’s banking covenants caused  
by foreign exchange losses following the significant decline in the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US dollar, after which the Group did not recognise  
any profits in respect of its investment. In November 2011, revised facilities were agreed with the banks and hence it was considered appropriate to  
re-instate the Group’s investment in associate at fair value of £10.0m and resume recognition of the Group’s share of profit or loss from that date. 
Turkey 
The Group owns direct and indirect holdings in the following Turkish businesses; Yalova Ambalaj Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S; Kaplamin Ambalaj Sanayi ve 
Ticaret A.S; OVA Oluklu Mukavva Ambalaj Sanayi. ve Ticaret A.S; Atkasan Atık Degerlendiseme San. Ve Tic. A.S; and Selkasan Kagıt ve Paketleme 
Malzemeleri Imalat San. Ve Tic. A.S. Direct holdings vary between 2.2% and 49.0%. These holdings were acquired as part of the SCA  
Packaging acquisition.  
Spain 
The Group has a 25% interest in the corrugated packaging and heavy duty division of Lantero Group, acquired as part of the SCA Packaging 
acquisition. The Group has board representation and as such is considered to exercise significant influence. 
Summary of financial information of associates  
The following items are an aggregate of the financial statements of the Group’s main associates on a 100% basis. 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Assets 429.2 190.0
Liabilities (180.4) (59.2)
Revenue 326.8 121.2
Profit after tax (0.4) 10.7
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
100 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
13. Other investments 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Restricted cash – receivable after one year 5.1 –
Other investments 0.5 –
Total non-current investments 5.6 –
Restricted cash – receivable within one year 16.6 –
Other investments 0.2 0.1
Total current investments 16.8 0.1
To facilitate Pension Scheme Trustee support for the acquisition of SCA Packaging, an escrow deposit of £15m was required to be held until the  
net debt /EBITDA ratio was below 2 times. This escrow deposit represents the majority of the £16.6m restricted cash receivable within one year.  
As the Group has achieved this metric in these consolidated financial statements, the escrow amount will now be released.  
14. Inventories 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Raw materials and consumables 151.8 83.4
Work in progress 16.4 5.7
Finished goods 116.6 57.7
 284.8 146.8
Inventory provisions at 30 April 2013 were £39.8m (30 April 2012: £15.2m). 
15. Trade and other receivables 
 2013 2012 
 Non-current 
£m 
Current  
£m 
Non-current 
£m 
Current 
£m
Trade receivables – 594.7 –268.1
Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables – (36.4) – (9.3)
Prepayments and other receivables 2.8 85.4 2.4 32.9
 2.8 643.7 2.4 291.7
 
Net carrying
amount
£m 
Of which 
neither impaired 
nor past due
£m 
Of which past due but not impaired 
Trade receivables 
1 month
or less
£m 
1–3 
months 
£m 
3–6  
months 
£m 
6–12 
months
£m 
More than
12 months
£m 
At 30 April 2013 558.3 492.4 46.6 12.3 3.9 1.1 2.0
At 30 April 2012 258.8 235.6 16.6 4.7 1.2 0.5 0.2
Movement in bad and doubtful receivables allowance 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
At 1 May (9.3) (17.5)
Uncollectible amounts written off, net of receivables 0.4 0.4
Decrease/(increase) in allowance recognised in the income statement 0.8 (0.3)
(Acquisitions)/disposals (26.7) 7.1
Currency translation (1.6) 1.0
At 30 April  (36.4) (9.3)
The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are 
limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and diverse. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the 
normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables. 
                 101
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
16. Trade and other payables 
 2013 2012 
 Non-current 
£m 
Current  
£m 
Non-current 
£m 
Current 
£m
Trade payables – 580.7 –278.1
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 9.7 375.1 9.9 153.5
 9.7 955.8 9.9 431.6
17. Net (debt)/cash 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Non-current liabilities (903.9) (227.6)
Current liabilities (20.2) (93.4)
Derivative financial instruments (10.7) (10.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents 78.5 653.2
Other investments – restricted cash 21.7 –
Other deposits 17.6 –
Net (debt)/cash (817.0) 321.7
The movement in net (debt)/cash is as follows: 
 
At
1 May
2012
£m 
Continuing 
operations 
cash flow
£m 
Discontinued 
operations  
cash flow 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and  
disposals 
£m 
Foreign
exchange
and fair value
movements
£m 
At
30 April
2013
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 664.5 (593.2) 7.2 22.5 15.4 116.4
Overdrafts (11.3)(22.4)– (3.7) (0.5) (37.9)
Net cash and cash equivalents 653.2 (615.6) 7.2 18.8 14.9 78.5
Restricted cash – receivable after one year – 16.6 – – – 16.6
Restricted cash – receivable within one year – 5.1 – – – 5.1
Other deposits  – 17.4 – – 0.2 17.6
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due – after one year (225.2) (629.4) – (1.4) (43.1) (899.1)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due – within one year (91.7) 77.0 – (5.7) 1.0 (19.4)
Finance leases (4.1) (0.4) – (0.8) (0.3) (5.6)
Derivative financial instruments   
– assets 7.9 – – – 1.2 9.1
– liabilities (18.4) – – – (1.4) (19.8)
 (331.5) (513.7) – (7.9) (42.4) (895.5)
Net cash/(debt) 321.7 (1,129.3) 7.2 10.9 (27.5) (817.0)
On 29 June 2012, €700m of loan facilities were utilised to part finance the acquisition of SCA Packaging. On 6 August 2012, €300m of these  
loans were refinanced with US Private Placement notes having maturities of between five and 10 years. 
Derivative financial instruments above relate to interest rate and cross-currency swaps used to hedge the Group’s borrowings. The difference between  
the amounts shown above and the total derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet relates to derivative financial 
instruments that hedge forecast foreign currency transactions and the Group’s purchases of energy. 
Certain other deposits balances are included as these short-term receivables have the characteristics of net debt. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
102 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
18. Cash and cash equivalents 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Bank balances 108.4 44.9
Short-term deposits 8.0 619.6
Cash and cash equivalents (consolidated statement of financial position) 116.4 664.5
Overdrafts (37.9) (11.3)
Net cash and cash equivalents (consolidated statement of cash flows) 78.5 653.2
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 2013 2012 
 Current 
£m 
Non-current 
£m 
Current
£m 
Non-current
£m
Borrowings measured at amortised cost   
Bank and other loans (19.4) (408.6) (0.2) (0.4)
Note purchase agreements – (403.7) – (142.4)
Finance lease liabilities (0.8) (4.8) (1.7) (2.4)
 (20.2) (817.1) (1.9) (145.2)
Borrowings in a fair value hedge relationship   
Note purchase agreements – (86.8) (91.5) (82.4)
 (20.2) (903.9) (93.4) (227.6)
The repayment profile of the Group’s borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps, is as follows: 
 2013 
 1 year
or less
£m 
1–2 
years 
£m 
2–5 
years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Total
£m 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate (0.8) – (317.9) (344.1) (662.8)
Floating-rate (19.4) (88.9) (153.0) – (261.3)
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings (20.2) (88.9) (470.9) (344.1) (924.1)
 
 2012 
 1 year
or less
£m
1–2 
years 
£m 
2–5 
years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate (37.8) (0.7) (67.2) (97.3) (203.0)
Floating-rate (55.6) (0.3) (62.1) – (118.0)
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings (93.4) (1.0) (129.3) (97.3) (321.0)
The Group’s borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps, are denominated in the following currencies: 
 2013 
 Sterling
£m 
Euro 
£m 
US dollar 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate (176.0)(486.8) – – (662.8)
Floating-rate – (200.0) (38.6) (22.7) (261.3)
 (176.0) (686.8) (38.6) (22.7) (924.1)
Net cash and cash equivalents (including bank overdrafts)   
Floating-rate 4.8 46.5 8.0 19.2 78.5
Net borrowings at 30 April 2013 (171.2) (640.3) (30.6) (3.5) (845.6)
                 103
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 
 2012 
 
Sterling
£m
Euro 
£m 
US dollar 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   
Fixed-rate (46.2) (141.1) (15.7) – (203.0)
Floating-rate (25.4) (92.6) – – (118.0)
 (71.6) (233.7) (15.7) – (321.0)
Net cash and cash equivalents (including bank overdrafts)   
Floating-rate 621.2 10.6 4.9 16.5 653.2
Net cash/(borrowings) at 30 April 2012 549.6 (223.1) (10.8) 16.5 332.2
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows:  
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Expiring between two and five years 517.3 610.0
At 30 April 2013, 76% of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were 
denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Group’s European operations (30 April 2012: 73%). Interest rates on floating-rate 
borrowings are based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) or base rates. 
Bank loan facilities 
The Group has a £610m syndicated committed revolving credit facility with an expiry date of 23 September 2016. Advances drawn down under the 
facility bear interest at a margin over the applicable LIBOR or EURIBOR rate. 
The Group also has a €400m (£338.9m) syndicated term loan with an expiry date of 30 June 2016. This facility bears interest at a margin over 
EURIBOR. The Group has entered into interest rate swap derivatives with bank counterparties to fix a proportion of the interest on this facility in 
compliance with Group hedging policy on interest rate risk management. 
Note purchase agreements 
 
Issue  
date 
Principal  
outstanding Coupon 
Maturity  
date 
Private Placement November 2002 $nil 6.24% November 2012
2
 
Private Placement November 2002 £nil 6.85% November 2012
2
 
Private Placement August 2004 $105m 5.66% August 2014
3
 
Private Placement August 2004 $95m 5.80% August 2016
4
 
Private Placement – shelf facility August 2010 €59m 4.40% August 2018
1
 
Private Placement – shelf facility August 2010 €59m 4.83% August 2020
1
 
Private Placement August 2012 $400m 4.48%
1
 August 2017-2022
5
 
1. Weighted average coupon rate. 
2. Repaid on 14 November 2012 upon maturity. 
3. Swapped to floating rate €86.5m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap. 
4. Swapped to floating rate €16.5m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin, and fixed rate £40.8m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.  
5. Swapped to fixed rate £130m and fixed rate €160m using cross-currency interest rate swaps. 
Finance lease liabilities 
 2013 2012 
 
Future 
minimum
lease
payments
£m 
Interest
£m 
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m 
Future 
 minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m 
Interest
£m
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments
£m 
Less than one year 2.5 (0.2) 2.3 1.8 (0.2) 1.6
Between one and five years 2.1 (0.2) 1.9 1.5 (0.2) 1.3
More than five years 1.6 (0.2) 1.4 1.4 (0.2) 1.2
Finance lease liabilities 6.2 (0.6) 5.6 4.7 (0.6) 4.1
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
104 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
20. Financial instruments 
The Group’s activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.  
A summary of the Group’s key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and  
Risk Management sections of the Business Review. 
The derivative financial instruments set out in this note have been entered into in line with the Group’s risk management objectives.  
The Group’s treasury policy prohibits entering into speculative transactions. 
(a) Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: 
 2013 2012 
 
Carrying 
amount 
£m 
Fair value  
£m 
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair value
£m 
Financial assets   
Cash and cash equivalents  116.4 116.4 664.5 664.5
Other investments – restricted cash 21.7 21.7 ––
Available for sale – other investments  0.7 0.7 0.1 0.1
Loans and receivables 646.5 646.5 294.1 294.1
Other financial assets in designated hedge accounting relationships 10.8 10.8 10.7 10.7
Total financial assets 796.1 796.1 969.4 969.4
Financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables  (965.5) (965.5) (441.5) (441.5)
Bank and other loans (428.0) (428.0) (0.6) (0.6)
Note purchase agreements  (490.5) (583.3) (316.3) (345.7)
Finance lease liabilities (5.6) (5.6) (4.1) (4.1)
Bank overdrafts (37.9) (37.9) (11.3) (11.3)
Other financial liabilities in designated hedge accounting relationships (22.7) (22.7) (23.6) (23.6)
Total financial liabilities (1,950.2) (2,043.0) (797.4) (826.8)
The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arm’s-length basis. For financial instruments carried at  
fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists. The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward  
foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note 
purchase agreements, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps. All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the consolidated 
statement of financial position.  
Under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, only the portions of the note purchase agreements which form part of an effective 
fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position. The majority of the Group's note purchase agreements are  
in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at amortised cost. The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear 
floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their book values. 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance  
of the inputs used in making the assessments.  
All of the Group’s financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments, where inputs are observable for the asset and liability, either directly  
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
                 105
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
20. Financial instruments continued 
(b) Derivative financial instruments 
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity contracts to manage the risks associated 
with the Group’s underlying business activities and the financing of these activities. All derivatives have been designated as effective hedging instruments 
and are carried at their fair value. 
The assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: 
 Assets Liabilities Net 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Derivatives held to:   
Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on borrowings  
and net investments 9.1 7.9 (19.8) (18.4) (10.7) (10.5)
Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 9.1 7.9 (19.8) (18.4) (10.7) (10.5)
Derivatives held to hedge future transactions   
Energy costs 1.5 1.8 (2.4) (3.8) (0.9) (2.0)
Foreign exchange on purchases and sales of goods and services 0.2 1.0 (0.5) (1.4) (0.3) (0.4)
Total derivative financial instruments 10.8 10.7 (22.7) (23.6) (11.9) (12.9)
 
Current 1.4 3.1 (1.9) (20.2) (0.5) (17.2)
Non-current 9.4 7.6 (20.8) (3.4) (11.4) 4.3
 10.8 10.7 (22.7) (23.6) (11.9) (12.9)
(c) Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges 
(i) Cash flow hedging reserve movements 
The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year. All figures are post-tax. 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
At 1 May (1.9) 3.0
Unrealised fair value (loss)/gain on designated cash flow hedges 
Forward exchange contracts 0.3 (0.5)
Cross-currency and interest rate swaps (16.4) 0.8
Commodity contracts 1.6 (7.8)
(Loss)/gain in equity recycled to the income statement 
Forward exchange contracts (0.1) 0.8
Cross-currency and interest rate swaps (0.2) –
Commodity contracts (0.7) 1.8
At 30 April (17.4) (1.9)
The gains and losses recycled to the income statement from the cash flow hedging reserve during the year are reflected in the following items in the 
consolidated income statement: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Revenue 0.9 (0.7)
Cost of sales (2.2) 4.1
Income tax 0.3 (0.8)
Total (gain)/loss in equity recycled to the income statement during the year (1.0) 2.6
 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
106 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
20. Financial instruments continued 
(c) Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges continued 
(ii) Fair value hedges 
At 30 April 2013, the Group held interest rate and foreign exchange swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and foreign exchange risk on 
fixed rate debt payable by the Group. The receive leg of the swap contracts is identical in all critical aspects to the terms of the underlying debt and therefore 
the hedging is treated as highly effective. The pre-tax gain on hedging derivative instruments taken to the income statement during the year was £17.0m 
(2011/12: loss of £0.8m) offset by a pre-tax loss on the fair value of the debt of £16.3m (2011/12: gain of £0.6m). 
(iii) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
The Group holds cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries. The pre-tax loss on the hedges 
recognised in equity during the year was £8.9m (2011/12: gain of £14.8m). This loss is matched by a similar gain in equity on the retranslation of the 
hedged foreign subsidiary’s net assets resulting in a net gain of £1.2m (2011/12: loss of £0.1m) treated as hedge ineffectiveness in the consolidated 
income statement. 
(d) Risk identification and risk management 
(i) Capital management 
The Group defines its managed capital as equity as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position and net debt (see note 17).  
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Net debt/(cash)  817.0 (321.7)
Total equity 1,084.9 1,057.5
Managed capital 1,901.9 735.8
There have been no changes to the components of managed capital during the year. Managed capital is different from capital employed (defined in the 
Chief Executive’s review on page 21). Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, whereas return on average capital employed is our measure of the 
level of return being generated by the asset base.  
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders’ equity and, where appropriate, 
disposals of non-core businesses. The Group’s objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing flexibility 
in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions. The Group also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and 
to provide continuity of financing by having a range of maturities and borrowing from a variety of sources.  
The Group’s overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage certain financial 
risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note. The Group’s treasury strategy is controlled through the Treasury Committee, 
which meets regularly and includes the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasurer and the 
Group Tax Manager. The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and controlled by the 
Group Treasurer. The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management. 
(ii) Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices. The Group is 
exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates exposing it to fair value risk and floating interest rates 
exposing it to future cash flow risk. The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap 
contracts which modify the interest payable on the Group’s underlying debt instruments. The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and 
financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note. 
                 107
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
20. Financial instruments continued 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
(ii) Market risk continued 
Interest rate risk continued 
At 30 April 2013, 72% of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings were at fixed rates of interest (30 April 2012: 63%). The sensitivity analysis 
below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates (representing management’s assessment of the reasonably 
possible change in interest rates) in all currencies in which the Group had variable rate borrowings at 30 April 2013. 
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits have been 
increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Group’s interest rate 
derivatives. Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments only affect the Group’s income statement. 
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.  
 2013 2012 
 Impact on 
profit 
£m 
Impact on 
total equity 
£m 
Impact on
profit
£m 
Impact on
total equity
£m
Increase in market interest rates by 100 basis points (2.9) – 5.3 –
Under interest rate swap contracts the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed 
notional principal amounts. At 30 April 2013, losses of £16.7m (30 April 2012: losses of £0.1m) net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash 
flow hedges of interest rate risk. This will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, 
which will be during the period to 2022. 
Foreign exchange risk 
Foreign exchange risk on investments 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ from the Group’s 
presentational currency, sterling. The Group hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and through cross-currency swap 
contracts. Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in reserves. 
Foreign exchange risk on borrowings 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. The Group hedges this exposure through cross-currency 
swaps designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.  
Foreign exchange risk on transactions 
Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales or purchases in a currency other than its functional currency. Part of this 
risk is hedged using foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.  
At 30 April 2013, losses of £0.1m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges (30 April 2012: losses of £0.3m). This will be 
recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within two years. 
The Group’s main currency exposure is to the euro and the following significant exchange rates applied during the year: 
 2013 2012 
 Average Closing Average Closing
euro 1.222 1.180 1.167 1.227
The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Group’s results of a 10% increase and decrease in the sterling exchange rate against all  
other currencies representing management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The analysis is restricted to  
financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges. Loans  
that are treated as net investment hedges are not included within the impact on the Group’s profit as the impact of foreign exchange movements on 
these is offset by equal and opposite movements in the foreign assets that the instruments hedge. 
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax. 
 2013 2012 
 Impact on 
profit 
£m 
Impact on 
total equity 
£m 
Impact on
profit
£m 
Impact on
total equity
£m
10% strengthening of sterling 0.7 (1.2) 0.4 (0.4)
10% weakening of sterling (0.6) 1.5 (0.5) 0.4
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
108 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
20. Financial instruments continued 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
(ii) Market risk continued 
Commodity risk 
The Group’s main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices. The majority of this commodity price risk is managed by a 
combination of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments. At 30 April 2013, losses of £0.7m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect  
of cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 (30 April 2012: losses of £1.5m). This will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which 
the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within two years.  
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is management’s assessment of the reasonably possible 
change, on average, over any given year. A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity. As all of the Group’s 
commodity financial instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year. 
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax. 
 2013 2012 
 Impact on 
profit 
£m 
Impact on 
total equity 
£m 
Impact on
profit
£m 
Impact on
total equity
£m
10% increase in UK electricity prices – 0.6 –0.3
10% increase in UK gas prices – 10.2 –2.9
(iii) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial loss  
to the Group. In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit risk. The carrying amount  
of financial assets at 30 April 2013 was £796.1m and is analysed in note 20(a). This represents the maximum credit risk exposure.  
Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned 
to that counterparty by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s credit rating agencies. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk. 
See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables. 
(iv) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due. 
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. At 30 April 2013, the Group had 
£517.3m of undrawn committed facilities available (2012: £610.0m). The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from  
a number of different sources with a range of maturities.  
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities (including the effect of cross-currency and interest  
rate swaps). 
 Contractual repayments 
At 30 April 2013  
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 
years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 965.5 955.8 9.7 –
Bank and other loans 434.4 19.5 414.9 –
Note purchase agreements 493.4 – 141.7 351.7
Finance lease liabilities 5.6 0.8 4.8 –
Bank overdrafts 37.9 37.9 – –
Interest payments on borrowings 197.4 38.4 111.1 47.9
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,134.2 1,052.4 682.2 399.6
 
                 109
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
20. Financial instruments continued 
(d) Risk identification and risk management continued 
(iv) Liquidity risk continued 
 Contractual repayments 
At 30 April 2012 
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5
years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 441.5 431.6 9.9 –
Bank and other loans 0.6 0.2 0.4 –
Note purchase agreements 309.1 89.7 123.2 96.2
Finance lease liabilities 4.1 1.7 1.3 1.1
Bank overdrafts 11.3 11.3 – –
Interest payments on borrowings 70.9 14.8 32.9 23.2
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 837.5 549.3 167.7 120.5
Refer to note 28 for an analysis of the Group’s future operating lease payments and to note 29 for a summary of the Group’s capital commitments.  
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial liabilities. Where the payable and receivable  
legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual payments or receipts have been calculated based on exchange rates  
prevailing at the respective year-ends. 
Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future  
contractual maturities. 
 Contractual payments/(receipts) 
At 30 April 2013  
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 
years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Derivative financial liabilities   
Energy derivatives  0.9 0.2 0.7 –
Interest rate and currency swaps:   
Payments 393.4 – 141.7 251.7
Receipts (385.6) – (141.4)(244.2)
Foreign exchange:   
Payments 28.6 28.6 – –
Receipts (28.3) (28.3) – –
Total net derivative financial liabilities 9.0 0.5 1.0 7.5
 
 Contractual payments/(receipts) 
At 30 April 2012 
Total 
£m 
1 year 
or less 
£m 
1–5 
years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Derivative financial liabilities   
Energy derivatives  2.0 0.9 1.1 –
Interest rate and currency swaps:   
Payments 213.0 75.6 137.4 –
Receipts (203.3) (62.6) (140.7) –
Foreign exchange:   
Payments 59.3 45.9 13.4 –
Receipts (58.9) (45.5) (13.4) –
Total net derivative financial liabilities/(assets) 12.1 14.3 (2.2) – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
110 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
21. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: 
 Assets Liabilities Net 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – – (155.7) (51.9) (155.7) (51.9)
Share-based payments and employee benefits 56.9 34.0 – – 56.9 34.0
Other items 21.7 12.1 – – 21.7 12.1
Tax assets/(liabilities) 78.6 46.1 (155.7) (51.9) (77.1) (5.8)
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of £19.2m (30 April 2012: £4.2m). These losses include £13.2m  
(30 April 2012: £4.2m) which do not expire and £6.0m (30 April 2012: £nil) which expire between 2017 and 2019 under current tax legislation. 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against  
which the Group can utilise these benefits. 
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £195.1m (30 April 2012: £140.6m) relating to unremitted earnings of overseas 
subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary difference and it is probable that they will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. The temporary differences at 30 April 2013 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance  
to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdiction in  
which these subsidiaries operate.  
Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year  
 
Property, plant and 
equipment and 
intangible assets 
Employee benefits  
including pensions Other  Total 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
At 1 May (51.9) (62.9) 34.0 41.3 12.1 18.3 (5.8) (3.3)
Acquired (126.6) 0.5 11.5 – – – (115.1) 0.5
Credit/(charge) for the year 29.2 7.7 (2.1) (1.4) – – 27.1 6.3
Recognised directly in equity – – 13.4 (5.9) 9.6 (6.2) 23.0 (12.1)
Currency translation (6.4) 2.8 0.1 – – – (6.3) 2.8
At 30 April (155.7) (51.9) 56.9 34.0 21.7 12.1 (77.1) (5.8)
At 30 April 2013, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: 
• except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill; 
• except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects  
neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal  
of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
                 111
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
22. Provisions 
 
Employee 
benefits 
£m 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 May 0.5 22.7 20.9 44.1
Acquisitions  – 10.4 57.5 67.9
Charged – 17.5 4.7 22.2
Utilised – (24.6) (22.3) (46.9)
Reclassified (0.5) 0.3 3.6 3.4
Currency translation – 0.7 2.3 3.0
At 30 April 2013 – 27.0 66.7 93.7
   
Non-current – 10.3 28.9 39.2
Current – 16.7 37.8 54.5
 – 27.0 66.7 93.7
The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the closures, restructuring and acquisition and integration costs described in note 4. Other 
provisions mainly relate to acquired onerous contracts, site restorations and to provisions for vacant leaseholds and various legal claims. The timing of the 
utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period 
specified in the contract. 
23. Capital and reserves 
Share capital 
 Number of shares   
 2013 
Millions 
2012 
Millions 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each:   
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 928.6 927.0 92.9 92.7
During the year ended 30 April 2013, 1,652,485 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued as a result of exercises of employee share options. 
The net movement in share capital and share premium is disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of  
the Company. In respect of the Company’s shares that are held by the Group (see below), all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.  
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and 
the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.  
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to  
hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.  
Share premium 
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.  
Own shares  
The reserve for the Company’s own shares comprises the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. The Group operates a General Employee 
Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the Executive Share Option Scheme, Performance 
Share Plan, Share Matching Plan and the Sharesave Plan. At 30 April 2013, the Trust held 2.1m shares (30 April 2012: 6.3m shares). The market  
value of the shares at 30 April 2013 was £5.0m (30 April 2012: £10.6m). Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived. 
Non-controlling interests 
The Group had a liability of £5.6m at 30 April 2013 (30 April 2012: £5.2m) and a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of 
the non-controlling shareholders’ put option in Toscana Ondulati SpA. This amount was calculated with reference to the recent profitability of the company 
using a multiple based formula. The fair value of the put options increased during the year by £0.4m (2011/12: £0.2m decrease). This charge was 
recorded within finance costs through the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
112 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
24. Employee benefits  
 Total UK Overseas 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Fair value of plan assets 927.6 765.1 849.9 759.2 77.7 5.9
Present value of obligations (1,130.0) (869.3) (983.1) (846.5) (146.9) (22.8)
Post-retirement plan deficit (202.4) (104.2) (133.2) (87.3) (69.2) (16.9)
Other employee benefit assets 3.9 – – – 3.9 –
Other employee benefit liabilities (15.5) – – – (15.5) –
Total employee benefit liabilities (214.0) (104.2) (133.2) (87.3) (80.8) (16.9)
Liability for defined benefit obligations 
The Group’s principal funded, defined benefit pension scheme, the DS Smith Group Pension scheme (‘the Group scheme’), is in the UK and is now 
closed to future accrual. The Group also operates various local post-retirement arrangements for overseas operations and a small UK unfunded scheme. 
Other employee benefits include pre-retirement benefits and long-service awards.  
The Group made agreed contributions of £18.3m to the Group scheme in 2012/13 (2011/12: £29.8m). A charge over certain assets of the Group 
has been made as security for certain of the unfunded arrangements. The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Group scheme was at 30 April 2010. 
All UK valuations used the projected unit method.  
Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group scheme are as follows: 
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.9% 5.0% 5.3% 5.6% 6.4%
Inflation 2.2% 2.4% 2.8% 3.5% 3.3%
Future salary increases N/A N/A N/A 4.5% 4.3%
Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 2.2% 2.4% 2.8% 3.5% 3.3%
Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 2.0% 2.2% 2.3% 2.4% 2.3%
Expected return on plan assets 4.8% 5.3% 5.8% 6.5% 6.7%
For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 2.9%, inflation of 1.8%, future salary increase  
of 3.1%, a rate of increase of pensions in payment of 1.1% and an expected rate of return on assets of 3.9%.  
The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group scheme to the key assumptions above is summarised below: 
 
Increase in 
pension 
liability 
£m 
0.5% decrease in discount rate (85.0)
0.5% increase in inflation (75.0)
1 year increase in life expectancy (24.0)
As part of the Group scheme actuarial valuation exercise the mortality tables have been amended as follows: 
 2013  2012 
 Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65   
Pensioner currently aged 65 21.2 23.4 21.1 23.3
Member currently aged 45 22.6 24.9 22.5 24.8
The mortality assumptions for other overseas arrangements are based on relevant standard mortality tables in each country.  
                 113
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
24. Employee benefits continued 
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of employee benefits and the expected long-term rates of return applied to the 
post-retirement schemes’ assets in the relevant financial period are as follows: 
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
 
Expected  
rate of  
return 
Market 
 value  
£m 
Expected 
rate of 
return 
Market 
value 
£m 
Expected 
rate of 
return 
Market 
value 
£m 
Expected  
rate of  
return 
Market  
value  
£m 
Expected 
rate of 
return 
Market 
value 
£m 
Equities  6.4% 501.5 6.9% 442.1 7.5% 435.9 7.9% 420.1 7.4% 349.8
Bonds, gilts, cash and other 2.5% 426.1 3.1% 323.0 4.5% 295.6 4.9% 269.0 5.1% 205.5
Total market value of assets  927.6 765.1 731.5 689.1 555.3
Present value of schemes’ 
liabilities  (1,130.0) (869.3) (879.0) (892.2) (746.6)
Post-retirement plan deficit  (202.4) (104.2) (147.5) (203.1) (191.3)
Other employee benefit assets 
and liabilities  (11.6) –– – –
Total employee benefit liabilities  (214.0) (104.2) (147.5) (203.1) (191.3)
Related deferred tax asset  56.1 27.1 35.7 57.0 53.3
Net employee benefit liabilities  (157.9) (77.1) (111.8) (146.1) (138.0)
Movements in the liability for post-retirement plans’ obligations recognised in the statement of financial position 
 2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
2009
£m 
Schemes’ liabilities at 1 May (869.3) (879.0) (892.2) (746.6) (797.7)
Interest cost (45.3) (45.6) (49.0) (46.7) (46.4)
Service cost recognised in the income statement (2.9) (0.9) (9.3) (9.6) (11.7)
Member contributions (0.4) – (4.4) (5.6) (6.2)
Settlement/curtailment 10.1 0.7 35.3 – –
Pension payments 41.1 42.3 51.7 47.4 31.6
Actuarial (losses)/gains (146.3) 6.5 (1.1) (132.3) 84.0
Currency translation (6.0) 3.2 0.5 0.6 (0.2)
(Acquisition)/divestment (111.0) 6.0 (10.5) – –
Reclassification – (2.5) – 0.6 –
Schemes’ liabilities at 30 April (1,130.0) (869.3) (879.0) (892.2) (746.6)
Movements in the fair value of post-retirement plans’ assets recognised in the statement of financial position 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
2009
£m 
Schemes’ assets at 1 May 765.1 731.5 689.1 555.3 721.8
Employer contributions 23.2 30.4 32.3 17.1 16.9
Member contributions 0.4 – 4.4 5.6 6.2
Settlement/curtailment (8.1) – – – –
Expected return on schemes’ assets 40.7 41.8 41.6 35.2 47.9
Actuarial gains/(losses)  74.5 9.6 15.5 122.0 (207.4)
Acquisition/(divestment) 69.6 (4.8) – – –
Pension payments (40.8) (42.3) (51.7) (45.7) (31.4)
Currency translation 3.0 (1.1) 0.3 (0.4) 1.3
Schemes’ assets at 30 April 927.6 765.1 731.5 689.1 555.3
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
114 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
24. Employee benefits continued 
Expense recognised in the income statement 
 2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m 
Current service cost (2.9) (0.9) (8.3) (7.9) (9.7)
Past service cost – – – (0.6) (0.8)
Pension Protection Fund levy – – (1.0) (1.1) (1.2)
Total service cost (2.9) (0.9) (9.3) (9.6) (11.7)
   
Interest cost on schemes’ liabilities  (44.2) (45.6) (49.0) (46.7) (46.4)
Expected return on schemes’ assets 40.7 41.8 41.6 35.2 47.9
Pension Protection Fund levy (1.1) (1.0) – – –
Employment benefit net finance (expense)/income (4.6) (4.8) (7.4) (11.5) 1.5
The expected rates of return on scheme assets have been derived based on the weighted average of the expected returns on the individual asset classes. 
Prior to 2010/11, the Pension Protection Fund levy was included in total service cost. Subsequently it has been included in the employment benefit net 
finance expense. 
Analysis of amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  
 2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m 
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets  74.5 9.6 15.5 122.0 (207.4)
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of schemes’ liabilities (146.3) 6.5 (1.1) (132.3) 84.0
Actuarial losses on other employee benefits (1.0) – – – –
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  (72.8) 16.1 14.4 (10.3) (123.4)
History of experience gains and losses 
 2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m 
Difference between expected and actual returns on schemes’ assets 74.5 9.6 15.5 122.0 (207.4)
Above as a percentage of schemes’ assets 8% 1% 2% 18% (37%)
Total amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (72.8) 16.1 14.4 (10.3) (123.4)
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities (6%) 2% 2% (1%) (17%)
The actual return on scheme assets was £115.2m (2011/12: £51.4m). The Group expects to pay approximately £17m in contributions to the Group 
scheme in the year ending 30 April 2014.  
                 115
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
25. Share-based payment expense  
The Group’s share-based payment arrangements are as follows: 
(i) A Performance Share Plan (PSP). Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service and the 
satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant. Awards have been made 
under the PSP annually since 2008, based on the following performance measures, in the proportions shown below: 
(i) the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the  
FTSE 250; 
(ii) average adjusted earnings per share (EPS); and 
(iii) average adjusted return on average capital employed (ROACE). 
• The 2008 award was subject to three equally-weighted performance measures (TSR, average adjusted EPS, and average adjusted ROACE).  
For those senior executives working in one of the Business Segments, the three equally-weighted measures were TSR, average adjusted operating profit 
and average adjusted ROACE for the relevant segment. Of these awards, 55.1% of TSR element have vested, but they have not yet been  
fully exercised. 
• The 2009 award was subject to two performance measures (80% based on a TSR component and 20% based on average adjusted ROACE).  
For those senior executives working in one of the Business Segments, the two measures were TSR and ROACE for the relevant segment. The 2009 
awards have vested in full, but they have not yet been fully exercised. 
• The 2010, 2011 and 2012 awards are subject to three performance measures: 
(i) 50% of each award based on a TSR component;  
(ii) 25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS; and 
(iii) 25% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE. 
(ii) Replacement 2007 and 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plans for Mr M W Roberts. The Replacement 2007 LTIP vested on 10 October 2010  
and the Replacement 2008 LTIP vested on 17 October 2011. The Replacement 2007 LTIP and the Replacement 2008 LTIP have not yet been 
exercised. The Replacement 2008 LTIP award was subject to a performance condition measuring the TSR of McBride Plc up to the date Mr 
Roberts joined the Company and thereafter the Company’s TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts) constituted as at the date of grant of the award over a three-year performance period commencing on 1 July 2008. 
(iii) The Replacement Deferred Shares Award and the Substitute Share Bonus Award are subject to substantially the same terms as the Company’s 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan, except that the vesting dates were 1 September 2012 and 1 September 2013 respectively. The Replacement 
Deferred Shares Award vested in full on the vesting date but has not been exercised. Mr Roberts will be entitled to a cash payment on vesting, 
representing a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on his vested shares while they were subject to his awards. There 
are no performance conditions governing the vesting of the Replacement Deferred Shares Award and the Substitute Share Bonus Award 
because the awards they replicate had no performance conditions attaching to them. 
(iv) The Recruitment Award is subject to substantially the same terms as the awards made under the Company’s PSP in 2009. The award vested  
in full on 19 October 2012 but has not yet been exercised. 
(v) A Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) is operated for Executive Directors and, from 2012/13, for senior executives. Shares awarded under 
the Plan will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award. 
(vi) A Share Matching Plan (SMP) is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012/13. The award  
will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years 
commencing with the year of grant. The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on average 
adjusted ROACE. 
(vii) An Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS). This scheme ceased to be operated from September 2008. In normal circumstances, the vesting  
of any options granted under the ESOS is subject to remaining in service and to the growth in the Company’s normalised earnings per share 
equalling or exceeding the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index plus an average of 3% per annum over the three financial years commencing 
with the year of grant. 
(viii) A Sharesave Plan was introduced in the UK in January 2011. All UK employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group 
are eligible to participate in this Plan. Under this HMRC approved Plan options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to 
£250 per month over a period of three years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary 
share on the three dealing days prior to invitation. Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed. In common 
with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this Plan. 
Full details of the awards described in (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 70.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
116 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
25. Share-based payment expense continued 
Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2013 were: 
 Options outstanding Options exercisable 
 
Number
of shares 
Option price
range (p) 
Weighted 
average
remaining
contract life
(years) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Number
exercisable 
Weighted
average
exercise
price (p) 
Executive Share Option Scheme (1999)  111,844 110.5-109.5 Nil 103.7 111,844 103.7
Performance Share Plan 11,511,292 Nil 0.9 Nil 856,556 Nil
Replacement 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan 627,718 Nil Nil Nil 627,718 Nil
Replacement Deferred Shares Award 154,863 Nil Nil Nil 154,863 Nil
Recruitment Award 828,526 Nil Nil Nil 828,526 Nil
Substitute Share Bonus Award 116,148 Nil 0.3 Nil Nil Nil
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,095,290 Nil 2.1 Nil Nil Nil
Share Matching Plan 519,648 Nil 2.2 Nil Nil Nil
Sharesave Plan 5,853,539 119.2 0.9 Nil Nil Nil
The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8. 
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 
 
Executive Share 
Option Scheme 
(1999) 
Performance 
Share Plan 
Replacement 2008 
Long-Term  
Incentive Plan 
Replacement 
Deferred Shares 
Award 
 
Recruitment  
Award 
2013 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
At 1 May 2012 103.7 334 Nil 15,160 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828
Granted Nil – Nil3,214 Nil – Nil – Nil –
Exercised 103.7 (222)Nil(6,236)Nil–Nil – Nil–
Lapsed Nil – Nil (627) Nil – Nil – Nil –
At 30 April 2013 103.7 112 Nil 11,511 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828
Exercisable at 30 April 2013 103.7 112 Nil 857 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828
 
Substitute Share  
Bonus Award 
Deferred Share  
Bonus Plan 
Share Matching  
Plan 
Sharesave  
Plan 
2013 continued 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average  
exercise 
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
At 1 May 2012 Nil 116 Nil 263 Nil Nil 119.2 6,928
Granted Nil–Nil835Nil 700 Nil–
Exercised Nil–Nil–Nil – Nil(342)
Lapsed Nil–Nil(3)Nil (180) Nil(732)
At 30 April 2013 Nil 116 Nil 1,095 Nil 520 119.2 5,854
Exercisable at 30 April 2013 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
 
                 117
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
25. Share-based payment expense continued 
 
Executive Share 
Option 
Scheme (1999) 
Performance 
Share Plan 
Replacement 2008 
Long-Term  
Incentive Plan 
Replacement 
Deferred Shares 
Award 
2012 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price (p)
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
At 1 May 2011 148.6 1,077 Nil 11,719 Nil 432 Nil 107
Adjustment for rights issue
*
 (46.2)486Nil4,056Nil 196 Nil48
Granted Nil–Nil2,677Nil – Nil–
Exercised 102.6(867)Nil(493)Nil – Nil–
Lapsed 102.0(362)Nil(2,799)Nil – Nil–
At 30 April 2012 103.7 334 Nil 15,160 Nil 628 Nil 155
Exercisable at 30 April 2012 103.7 334 Nil 324 Nil 628 Nil Nil
 
Recruitment  
Award  
Substitute Share  
Bonus Award 
Deferred Share  
Bonus Plan 
Sharesave  
Plan 
2012 continued 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Options
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options 
(‘000s) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) 
Options
(‘000s) 
At 1 May 2011 Nil 571 Nil 80 Nil 59 – –
Adjustment for rights issue
*
 Nil257Nil36Nil 26 ––
Granted Nil–Nil–Nil 178 119.27,977
Exercised Nil–Nil–Nil – Nil(49)
Lapsed Nil–Nil–Nil – Nil(1,000)
At 30 April 2012 Nil 828 Nil 116 Nil 263 119.2 6,928
Exercisable at 30 April 2012 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
* The exercise prices and number of shares under option have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue in February 2012. 
The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 191.4 pence (2011/12: 150.2 pence). 
The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP, DSBP and SMP schemes. 
The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was £3.0m. The significant inputs into the 
model were: a share price of £1.487 for the PSP at the grant date; the exercise prices shown above; an expected initial volatility of the share price of 
40.7% and long-term volatility of 28.9%; the scheme life disclosed above; an annual risk-free interest rate of 0.24% and an expected dividend yield of 
nil%. The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average 
weekly share prices from 1 January 1970. 
The Group Finance Director tendered his resignation on 8 January this year and as such his share-based payment arrangements will lapse on  
28 June 2013 when he leaves the Company. 
The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was £3.8m (2011/12: £4.0m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
118 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
26. Cash generated from operations 
Continuing operations 
2013
£m 
2012
 £m
Profit for the year  70.3 8.4
Adjustments for: 
Pre-tax SCA Packaging integration costs and other exceptional items  67.8 70.1
Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisition related costs 56.7 26.5
Cash outflow for SCA Packaging acquisition costs (31.6) (7.0)
Cash outflow for SCA Packaging integration costs (52.9) –
Cash outflow for other exceptional items (27.8) (19.5)
Depreciation  112.4 63.9
(Profit)/loss on sale of non-current assets (0.7) 0.8
Share of (profit)/loss of associate (1.2) 0.5
Employment benefit net finance expense 4.6 4.8
Share-based payment expense 3.8 4.0
Finance income (3.1) (2.1)
Finance costs 39.5 20.5
Other non-cash items (including other deposits) (20.1) (0.1)
Income tax expense 16.3 13.3
Provisions and employee benefits (18.3) (28.8)
Cash generation before working capital movements 215.7 155.3
Changes in: 
Inventories 29.2 2.1
Trade and other receivables 111.4 2.9
Trade and other payables 17.3 38.7
Working capital movement 157.9 43.7
Cash generated from continuing operations 373.6 199.0               119
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
27. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
 2013
£m 
2012
 £m
Continuing operations 
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 250.9 142.0
Depreciation  112.4 63.9
Adjusted EBITDA 363.3 205.9
Working capital movement 157.9 43.7
Provisions and employee benefits  (18.3) (28.8)
Other 0.4 4.7
Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 503.3 225.5
Capital expenditure (161.0) (94.2)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments  4.4 8.3
Tax paid (41.7) (25.3)
Net interest paid (34.6) (19.8)
Free cash flow 270.4 94.5
SCA Packaging acquisition costs (31.6) (7.0)
SCA Packaging integration costs (52.9) –
Other exceptional items (27.8) (19.5)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders (36.8) (31.5)
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents (1,281.0) (2.3)
Divestment of subsidiary and associate businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 50.8 184.5
Net cash flow (1,108.9) 218.7
(Transaction costs)/proceeds from issue of share capital (0.4) 450.2
Purchase of own shares (1.2) (0.3)
Loans and borrowings acquired  (7.9) (14.2)
Net movement on (debt)/cash (1,118.4) 654.4
Foreign exchange and fair value movements (note 17) (27.5) 24.7
Net debt movement – continuing operations (1,145.9) 679.1
Net debt movement – discontinued operations 7.2 (6.4)
Opening net debt 321.7 (351.0)
Closing net (debt)/cash (817.0) 321.7
28. Operating leases 
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Less than one year 21.4 15.0
Between one and five years 43.2 33.0
More than five years 13.6 2.8
 78.2 50.8
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.  
At 30 April 2013, the Group’s future minimum sub-lease receipts totalled £0.3m (30 April 2012: £0.5m). 
29. Capital commitments  
At 30 April 2013, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of £9.2m (30 April 2012: £31.0m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
120 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
30. Acquisitions and divestments 
(a) SCA Packaging 
On 30 June 2012, the Group acquired the packaging division of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) excluding its kraftliner assets (‘SCA 
Packaging’). The acquisition was effected by the purchase of equity of 100% of SCA Packaging Holding B.V. and SCA Packaging Nicollet S.A.S.  
for €1.6 billion on a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis. This is subject to customary  
post-completion adjustments.  
SCA Packaging was the second largest packaging business in Europe and the acquisition represents a significant opportunity for the Group to achieve  
its stated strategic aim of becoming the leading supplier of recycled packaging for consumer goods in Europe.  
The Group expects that the acquisition will drive growth in the business and add shareholder value by providing access to new geographical markets 
across continental Europe that better matches the location and scale of key pan-European FMCG customers, given the complementary geographic 
business and customer fit between the two businesses. The Group expects development of broader relationships with existing customers as well as the 
potential to win new customers through increased ability to supply and innovate new products and improve service levels, driving of further benefits from 
the enlarged Group’s operational structure, utilising the strengthened resource in key commercial and operational functions and delivering synergies. 
In the year ended 30 April 2013, SCA Packaging contributed revenue of £1,890m and operating profit before amortisation of £104m to the Group’s 
results. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 May 2012, estimated revenue and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items for the 
combined entity would have been £4,072m and £273m respectively. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid for SCA Packaging, and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
 
Carrying 
values before 
acquisition
£m 
Provisional 
fair values
£m 
Intangible assets 12.9 403.1
Property, plant and equipment 956.3 716.4
Investment in associates 55.8 16.0
Net deferred tax liabilities (63.9) (115.1)
Other non-current receivables 9.7 –
Inventories 183.7 158.6
Trade and other receivables 365.7 348.7
Net income tax liabilities (24.3) (78.5)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – non-current (1.4) (1.4)
Employee benefits (42.9) (57.0)
Net assets classified as held for sale 7.3 30.7
Cash and cash equivalents 18.8 18.8
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – current (5.7) (5.7)
Trade and other payables (237.1) (396.8)
Provisions (120.1) (67.9)
Total identifiable net assets acquired  1,114.8 969.9
Goodwill 329.9
Total consideration  1,299.8
Satisfied by: 
Cash consideration 1,299.8
 
Net cash flow arising on acquisition 
Cash consideration 1,299.8
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (18.8)
Total cash outflow 1,281.0
                 121
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
 
30. Acquisitions and divestments continued 
(a) SCA Packaging continued 
A detailed exercise has been undertaken to assess the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the use of third party experts where 
appropriate. The fair value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment has been assessed by reference to work performed by an 
independent valuation specialist. The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition relate primarily to customer relationships.  
If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date identifies 
adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition accounting will be revised. 
Deferred tax is recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments. 
The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £375.4m. At the acquisition date, it is estimated that contractual cash  
flows of £26.7m will not be collected. 
Goodwill of £329.9m arising on the acquisition of SCA Packaging (which is not expected to be tax deductible) includes anticipated synergies  
from integrating SCA Packaging into the Group, and the skills and technical talent of the SCA Packaging workforce. 
Included within provisions are contingent liabilities of £8.6m which have been recognised in respect of legal claims. 
(b) Remedy disposals  
On 25 May 2012, the European Commission granted competition clearance for the SCA Packaging acquisition. The clearance required the Group to  
divest three sites after the acquisition, which represent approximately 1% of the enlarged Group profit. All three remedy disposal sites were divested during  
the year for total proceeds of £42.6m. The Group incurred transaction costs of £1.8m of which £0.5m was recognised as an expense for the year, with  
the remainder included in the opening fair value less cost to sell of the two remedy disposal sites gained through the SCA Packaging acquisition. 
(c) Other disposals 
The Group made additional minor disposals of associates and subsidiary businesses for proceeds of £8.2m, net of cash and cash equivalents.  
These include the Group’s associate GAE Smith, UK packaging disposals and the sale of the Group’s Norwegian subsidiary. 
(d) SCA Packaging acquisition related costs 
The Group incurred acquisition related costs of £11.8m in 2012/13 (2011/12: £18.4m) on professional advisory fees and due diligence costs 
associated with the acquisition. These costs have been included in administrative expenses in the Group’s consolidated income statement.  
(e) Office Products Wholesaling 
In April 2013, DS Smith received £7.2m in relation to final settlement of the disposal of its Office Products Wholesaling division in 2011/12 to  
Unipapel SA, which was recorded in discontinued operations in exceptional items.  
On 30 December 2011 the Office Products Wholesaling division was sold to Unipapel SA. The Office Products Wholesaling division is presented  
as discontinued operations in the 2011/12 comparative consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of cash flows. 
(f) SCA Packaging Kuban acquisition and disposal 
In 2011/12 the Group acquired 100% of the equity of SCA Packaging Kuban in July 2011 for €5.0m cash consideration and €1.5m deferred 
consideration payable in December 2011, exclusively with a view to resale. The business was subsequently sold in December 2011 to the Group’s 
associate, OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill, for €6.5m with nil profit or loss on disposal. 
31. Related parties 
Identity of related parties 
In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries and associates. 
The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors. The compensation of key 
management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Report. Certain key management also participate in the Group’s share-based incentive programme 
(note 25). Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of £0.5m (2011/12: £1.2m) relating to key management. 
Other related party transactions 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Sales to associates 0.2 –
Purchases from associates  0.1 0.2
Amounts due from associates 0.5 –
Amounts due to associates  (0.2) (0.1)
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
122 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS continued 
 
32. DS Smith Group companies 
Control of the Group 
The Group’s ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc. 
List of key consolidated companies 
 
Country of 
incorporation 
or registration 
Ownership 
interest at 
30 April 
 2013 
UK 
DS Smith Holdings Limited UK 100%   
DS Smith Packaging Limited UK 100%*
DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Limited UK 100%*
DS Smith Paper Limited UK 100%*
DS Smith Logistics Limited UK 100%*
DS Smith Recycling UK Limited UK 100%*
Western Europe 
DS Smith Kaysersberg S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Packaging France S.A.S. France 100%*
Otor S.A. France 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Services S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Consumer S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Chouanard S.A.S. France 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Netherlands B.V.  Netherlands 100%*
DACH and Northern Europe 
DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung & Co KG Germany 100%*
DS Smith Recycling Deutschland GmbH Germany 100%*
DS Smith Paper Deutschland GmbH Germany 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Denmark A/S Denmark 100%*
DS Smith Packaging Sweden AB Sweden 100%*
Central Europe and Italy 
DS Smith Polska S.A. Poland 100%*
Toscana Ondulati SpA Italy 92%*
DS Smith Packaging Italia SpA Italy 100%*
Plastics 
DS Smith Plastics Limited UK 100%*
DS Smith Cartón Plástico s.a. Spain 100%*
D.W. Plastics NV Belgium 100%*
DS Smith Ducaplast S.A.S. France 100%*
DSS Rapak Inc. USA 100%*
Rapak GmbH  Germany 100%*
Rapak Asia Pacific Limited  New Zealand 100%*
* indirectly held by DS Smith Plc. 
A complete list of the Group’s companies is available from the registered office. 
                123
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PREPARED  
IN ACCORDANCE WITH UK GAAP 
At 30 April 2013 
  
Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets  3 1.9 1.5
Investments 4 1,833.3 534.1
  1,835.2 535.6
Current assets  
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 5 21.8 13.8
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 393.2 980.2
Cash at bank and in hand 10 32.9 648.9
  447.9 1,642.9
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
Trade and other creditors 6 (47.3) (53.2)
Borrowings 6 (51.0) (91.6)
Net current assets  349.6 1,498.1
Total assets less current liabilities  2,184.8 2,033.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year  
Trade and other creditors 6 (20.7) (3.1)
Borrowings 6 (899.1) (945.6)
Provisions for liabilities 7 (7.4) (17.1)
Net assets   1,257.6 1,067.9
 
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital  8 92.9 92.7
Share premium account 9 710.0 710.2
Profit and loss account 9 454.7 265.0
Shareholders’ funds  1,257.6 1,067.9
Approved by the Board of Directors of DS Smith Plc (company registered number 1377658) on 26 June 2013 and signed on its behalf by  
 
M W Roberts, Director S W Dryden, Director 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
124 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET  
 
1. Significant accounting policies 
A summary of the significant accounting policies, which have been  
applied consistently, is set out below:  
(a) Accounting basis  
The financial statements of DS Smith Plc (the ‘Company’) have been  
prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention 
and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006  
and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP). 
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt 
from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.  
Under FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’, the Company is exempt from the 
requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the  
parent undertaking includes the Company in its own consolidated  
financial statements. 
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 
‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, not to present Company only information 
as the disclosures provided in the notes to the consolidated financial 
statements comply with the requirements of this standard. 
In accordance with FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’, the Company has chosen  
to take the multi-employer exemption from disclosing the assets and liabilities  
of the scheme as it is not possible to separately identify those that relate to the 
Company employees. This is because of the complexities in determining how 
the cost of funding the deficit will be allocated between group companies in 
future periods. A Group level actuarial valuation under FRS 17 has not been 
performed, but the net pension liability under IAS 19 for the UK defined 
benefit pension schemes was £133.2m at 30 April 2013 (2012: £87.3m). 
(b) Income recognition 
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised in the  
profit and loss account when declared by the subsidiary undertaking. 
(c) Tangible fixed assets  
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation less the estimated 
residual value of all tangible fixed assets in equal annual instalments over their 
estimated useful lives at the following rates:  
Plant and equipment  2 – 25 years 
(d) Fixed asset investments  
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less provisions for impairment. 
(e) Deferred taxation  
In accordance with FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’, deferred tax is provided in full  
on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to 
pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to 
apply when they crystallise, provided at current tax rates and based on current 
legislation. Timing differences arise from inclusion of items of income and 
expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which 
they are included in the financial statements.  
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more 
likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are not discounted. 
(f) Foreign currencies  
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the financial year-end. Exchange 
differences arising on translation are taken to the profit and loss account. 
(g) Pension contributions  
The Company participates in a funded, defined benefit scheme in the UK,  
the DS Smith Group Pension scheme (‘the Group scheme’). On 30 April 
2011, the scheme was closed for future accrual.  
As the Company is unable to identify its share of scheme assets and liabilities 
on a consistent and reasonable basis, the Company treats contributions to 
defined benefit schemes as if they were contributions to a defined contribution 
scheme in accordance with the exemption permitted by FRS 17 ‘Retirement 
Benefits’. As a result the amount charged to the profit and loss account 
represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the relevant 
accounting period.  
(h) Financial instruments  
Financial instruments are reported in accordance with FRS 26 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, currency 
and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and commodity risks 
associated with the Group’s underlying business activities and the financing of 
these activities. The Group has a policy not to, and does not undertake any 
speculative activity in these instruments. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract 
is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair 
value is negative.  
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when designated 
as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the financial instruments 
provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk.  
Any gains or losses arising from the hedging instruments are offset against  
the hedged items.  
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:  
• fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair 
value of a recognised asset or liability; and 
• cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised 
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. 
(i) Share options  
The Company operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant  
of the options is recognised as an expense. The fair value of the options 
granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the options were granted. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value 
of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about 
the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. At each 
balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the numbers of options 
that are expected to become exercisable.  
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
Where applicable, the fair value of employee services received by subsidiary 
undertakings within the DS Smith Plc Group in exchange for options granted 
by the Company is recognised as an expense in the financial statements of 
the subsidiary by means of a recharge from the Company.                125
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
2. Employee information 
The average number of employees employed by the Company was 48 (2011/12: 41). 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 8.9 6.8
Social security costs 2.0 1.8
Pension costs 0.4 0.3
Total 11.3 8.9
Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the disclosure information required for the Company’s share-based payments. 
3. Tangible fixed assets 
  
Plant and 
equipment
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost   
At 1 May 2012  2.8 2.8
Additions  1.4 1.4
At 30 April 2013  4.2 4.2
 
Depreciation  
 
At 1 May 2012  (1.3) (1.3)
Charge for the year  (1.0) (1.0)
At 30 April 2013  (2.3) (2.3)
 
Carrying amount 
 
At 1 May 2012  1.5 1.5
At 30 April 2013  1.9 1.9
4. Fixed asset investments 
 
Shares in Group 
undertakings 
£m 
At 1 May 2012 534.1
At 30 April 2013 1,833.3
The Company’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings at 30 April 2013 are shown in note 32 of the consolidated financial statements. 
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
126 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET continued 
 
5. Debtors 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Amounts falling due within one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 14.8 0.4
Corporation tax – 2.5
Other debtors  2.4 4.8
Prepayments and accrued income 3.5 3.7
Derivative financial instruments 1.1 2.4
 21.8 13.8
 
Amounts falling due after more than one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 373.9 966.0
Deferred tax asset 9.9 6.9
Derivative financial instruments 9.4 7.3
 393.2 980.2
Total debtors 415.0 994.0
6. Creditors 
 2013
£m 
2012
£m
Trade and other creditors falling due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – 0.5
Corporation tax 4.8 –
Other tax and social security payables 8.2 6.6
Other creditors, accruals and deferred income 33.0 26.9
Derivative financial instruments 1.3 19.2
 47.3 53.2
 
Trade and other creditors falling due after more than one year 
Derivative financial instruments 20.7 3.1
 20.7 3.1
 
Borrowings falling due within one year 
Bank loans and overdrafts 34.1 0.1
Other loans 16.9 91.5
 51.0 91.6
 
Borrowings falling due after more than one year  
Loans from subsidiary undertakings – 720.8
Other loans 899.1 224.8
 899.1 945.6
Total creditors 1,018.1 1,093.5
                 127
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
 
 
7. Provisions for liabilities 
 Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 May 2012  3.6 13.5 17.1
Charged to the income statement 2.6 0.2 2.8
Utilised  (1.0) (11.5) (12.5)
At 30 April 2013 5.2 2.2 7.4
8. Share capital 
 Number of shares  
 2013 
Millions 
2012 
Millions 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each   
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 928.6 927.0 92.9 92.7
During the year, the Company issued new ordinary shares relating to placings in respect of employee share options of 1,652,485 ordinary shares  
of 10 pence. 
The net movement in share capital and share premium is disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the 
Company. In respect of the Company’s shares that are held by the Group, all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.  
9. Reserves 
 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Profit and loss account 
 Own  
shares 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 May 2012  710.2 (7.9) (7.7) 280.6 265.0
Issue of share capital (0.2) – – – –
Profit for the year  – – – 235.3 235.3
Dividends paid – – – (36.8) (36.8)
Purchase of own shares – (1.2) – – (1.2)
Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges (including tax) – – (16.2) – (16.2)
Share-based payment expense – – – 1.2 1.2
Employee share trust  – 7.4 – – 7.4
At 30 April 2013 710.0 (1.7) (23.9) 480.3 454.7
The Company made a profit for the year of £235.3m (2011/12: profit of £67.8m) including the recognition of intra-group dividends. 
10. Cash at bank and in hand 
Included within cash at bank and in hand is £15.0m (30 April 2012: £nil) restricted for use by the Company. Details of the restriction are disclosed 
within note 13 of the consolidated financial statements. 
11. Contingent liabilities 
The Company has guaranteed the gross overdrafts and loans of certain subsidiary undertakings, which at 30 April 2013 amounted to £60.6m  
(30 April 2012: £26.3m). 
12. Related party disclosure 
The Company has identified the Directors of the Company, its key management and the UK pension scheme as related parties for the purpose of FRS 8 
‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and note 31 
of the consolidated financial statements respectively. 
As permitted by FRS 8, no related party disclosures in respect of transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries have  
been included. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
128 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
 
Continuing operations 
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2012
£m 
2013
£m 
Revenue   1,386.1 1,336.9 1,759.3 1,969.4 3,669.3
Operating profit
1
  76.1 76.7 110.9 142.0 250.9
Amortisation (2.2) (2.9) (6.8) (8.1) (44.9)
Share of profit/(loss) of associates 0.6 0.2 – (0.5) 1.2
Net financing costs (24.4) (26.7) (27.4) (23.2) (41.0)
Profit before taxation and exceptional items 50.1 47.3 76.7 110.2 166.2
SCA Packaging acquisition and integration related costs – – – (18.4) (69.6)
Other exceptional items (52.6) (11.5) 0.9 (70.1) (10.0)
Profit/(loss) before income tax (2.5) 35.8 77.6 21.7 86.6
   
Adjusted earnings per share
1
 6.4p 6.3p  10.0p 12.8p 17.4p
Dividends per share
 
3.0p 3.2p  4.5p 5.9p 8.0p
   
Adjusted return on sales
1
 5.5% 5.7% 6.3% 7.2% 6.8%
Adjusted return on average capital employed
1,2,3
 8.7% 9.0% 11.5% 14.6% 12.3%
1. Before amortisation and exceptional items.  
2. Adjusted return on average capital employed is defined as operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items divided by average capital employed.  
3. Average capital employed is the average monthly capital employed for the last 12 months. Capital employed is made up of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible 
assets, working capital, capital debtors/creditors, provisions and assets/liabilities held for sale. The definition of capital employed is different from the definition of managed capital as 
defined in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, which consists of equity as presented in the statement of financial position, plus net debt. 
  Financial diary
3 September 2013 
Annual General Meeting
2 October 2013 
Ex-dividend date for ﬁnal dividend
1 November 2013 
Payment of ﬁnal dividend
5 December 2013* 
Announcement of half-year results for the six months ended 31 October 2013
2 April 2014* 
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend
1 May 2014* 
Payment of interim dividend
26 June 2014* 
Announcement of ﬁnal results for the year ended 30 April 2014
* Provisional date.
The Registrars provide online facilities  
at www.shareview.co.uk. Once you  
have registered you will be able to access 
information on your DS Smith Plc shareholding, 
update your personal details and amend your 
dividend payment instructions online without 
having to call or write to the Registrars.
Dividends
Shareholders who wish to have their  
dividends paid directly into a bank or building 
society account should contact the Registrars. 
In addition, the Registrars are now able to pay 
dividends in 36 foreign currencies. This service 
is called ‘TAPS’ and enables the payment of 
your dividends directly into your bank account 
in your home currency. A charge of £2.50  
is deducted from each dividend payment to 
cover the costs involved. Please contact the 
Registrars to request further information.
Share dealing services
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone  
and internet dealing service. Further  
details including terms and rates can be 
obtained by logging on to the website  
at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or  
by calling +44 (0)845 603 7037.  
Lines are open between 8am and  
4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Registered ofﬁce and advisers
Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce 
Matt Jowett 
Beech House 
Whitebrook Park 
68 Lower Cookham Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8XY 
Registered in England No: 1377658
The Group Head Ofﬁce is relocating to  
central London later in the calendar year,  
at which time the registered ofﬁce will  
change to the new address. 
Auditors 
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London E1 6AD
Principal clearing bank 
The Royal Bank of Scotland 
 135 Bishopsgate 
London EC2M 3UR
Stockbroker 
J.P . Morgan Cazenove 
 10 Aldermanbury 
London EC2V 7RF
Registrars 
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registrars queries 
Information on how to manage  
your shareholdings can be found at  
https://help.shareview.co.uk. The pages  
at this web address provide answers to 
commonly asked questions regarding 
shareholder registration, links to  
downloadable forms and guidance notes. 
If your question is not answered by the 
information provided, you can send your 
enquiry via secure email from these pages. 
You will be asked to complete a structured 
form and to provide your Shareholder 
Reference, Name and Address. You will also 
need to provide your email address if this is 
how you would like to receive your response. 
Alternatively, telephone: 0871 384 2197. 
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday 
to Friday. Calls to this number will be charged 
at 8 pence per minute plus network extras. 
Overseas telephone: +44 121 415 7047.
Company website
The Company’s website at www.dssmith.uk.
com contains the latest information for 
shareholders, including press releases and  
an updated ﬁnancial diary. E-mail alerts of  
the latest news, press releases and ﬁnancial 
reports about DS Smith Plc may be obtained 
by registering for the e-mail news alert service 
on the website.
Share price information
The latest price of the Company’s ordinary 
shares is available from the FT Cityline service. 
Calls within the UK are charged at 75 pence 
per minute at all times. To access this service, 
telephone +44 (0)9058 171 690. 
Alternatively click on  
www.londonstockexchange.com.  
DS Smith’s ticker symbol is SMDS. It is 
recommended that you consult your ﬁnancial 
adviser and verify information obtained  
from these services before making any  
investment decision.
Registrars
Please contact the Registrars at the address 
below to advise of a change of address or for 
any enquiries relating to dividend payments, 
lost share certiﬁcates or other share 
registration matters.
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION DS Smith Plc 
Beech House 
Whitebrook Park 
68 Lower Cookham Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8XY
Registered in England No: 1377658
The Group Head Ofﬁce is relocating to 
central London later in the calendar year, 
at which time the registered ofﬁce will 
change to the new address. 
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 583 400 
Fax +44 (0) 1628 583 401
E-mail ir@dssmith.co.uk 
www.dssmith.uk.com
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their 
pureprint
®
 environmental print technology on  
Core Silk made from FSC
®
 certiﬁed ﬁbre.
Pureprint Group is a carbon neutral company 
registered to EMAS, the Eco Management Audit 
Scheme and certiﬁed to ISO 14001 Environmental 
Management System.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc (London)
www.blacksunplc.com 
+44 (0) 20 7736 0011
