 www.eaga.com
Registered Office: eaga plc eaga House Archbold Terrace Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1DB www.eaga.com
Delivering 
sustainable living
Annual Report and Accounts  
Year ended 31 May 2009
making a difference
eaga Annual Report and Accounts Year ended 31 May 2009 Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
About eaga
05  Our Partners Our Values
07   Installation Services
09  Managed Services
1 1  Specialist Support Services
Business Review
12 Q&A with our new CEO
14 Operational Review
21 eaga in the Community 
22 Financial Review 
26 Board of Directors
28 Report of the Directors
32 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
33 Remuneration Report
39 Corporate Governance
44 Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Group Financial Statements
45 Independent Auditors’ 
Report
46 Consolidated Income 
Statement
46 Consolidated Statement  
of Recognised Income  
and Expense
47 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
48 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
49 Group Accounting Policies
56 Notes to the Financial 
Statements
Parent Company  
Financial Statements
79 Independent Auditors’ 
Report
80 Parent Company  
Balance Sheet
81 Notes to the Parent 
Company Financial 
Statements
eaga is a green support services  
company, the UK’s leading provider  
of residential energy efficiency  
solutions and an established deliverer  
of a range of outsourced programmes.
Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk 
Revive 50:50 Silk is a 50% recovered fibre and 50% virgin fibre  
product with FSC certification, produced from well-managed forests. 
This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-
recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification. Results highlights
> Revenue up 15.6% to £738.9m (2008: £639.0m), largely organic growth
> 	 EBITA
1 
up 24.1% to £47.2m (2008: £38.0m)
> PBTA
2 
up 23.5% to £47.5m (2008: £38.4m)
> Adjusted 
 
diluted earnings per share 
3
 up 26.0% to 13.4p (2008: 10.6p)
> Final dividend of 2.4p per share; 3.5p for the year, up 16.7% (2008: 3.0p)
> Strong cash generation
> Year end closing cash balance £31.9m (2008: £15.3m)
Key achievements
> Another year of strong delivery and continued growth
> Warm Front Scheme contract extended to 31 March 2011, with provision  
for a further two year extension
> Delivery of BBC Switchover Help Scheme well under way, reaching over 
1.1m eligible customers so far
> Continued development of heating platform
> Increase in Carbon Emissions Reduction target (‘CERT’) activities with  
all six major utilities, estimated to have saved over 9.1m tonnes of CO
2
 
during the period
> Strategic alliance established with organisations such as Solar century  
and Consensus Business Group, building on our strong position in the 
growing domestic low carbon and renewable energy markets
 1
  Adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges and exceptional costs
2
  PBTA is calculated as profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges and exceptional costs
3
  Adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges, exceptional costs and related tax adjustments
Highlights
Rise in total dividend 
per share
16 %
Rise in revenue
24%
Rise in EBITA 
1
26%
Rise in adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
17%
£7 38.9m
Revenue up 16%
£4 7.2m
EBITA 
1
 up 24%
£7 38.9m 2009
£4 7.2m 2009
10.62p 2008
3.5p 2009
£639.0m 2008
£38.0m 2008
13.38p 2009
3.0p 2008
01 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 I am pleased to present this 
annual report, which charts the 
progress of another successful 
year. The year has seen eaga 
continue to build on its track 
record as an established growth 
business and despite the 
wider context of a challenging 
economic climate, eaga has 
succeeded in increasing both 
revenues and profits across 
each of its business segments.
The drivers within eaga’s markets remain strong and with 
a range of emerging opportunities in our core markets, 
the business is well placed to make good progress. We are 
focused on building on the Group’s strong foundations to 
achieve further diversification and growth.
Results
The Group’s results for the year to 31 May 2009 show double 
digit growth in revenues and profits before exceptional 
items. Group revenue increased by 15.6% to £738.9m 
(2008: £639.0m) and Group earnings before interest, tax, 
amortisation of intangible assets, eaga Partnership Trust 
(‘ePT’)-funded charges and exceptional costs (‘EBITA’)  
grew by 24.1% to £47.2m (2008: £38.0m). It is pleasing  
that 12.9% of our 15.6% revenue growth was organic.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (adjusted for 
amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges,  
exceptional costs and associated taxation) has increased 
by 26.0% to 13.38p.
The Group held net cash balances (cash balances less 
loans and borrowings) of £31.3m (2008: £14.8m) at the year 
end. Our cash generative business model, alongside the 
agreement of new credit facilities, provides the flexibility  
to support the Group’s future growth opportunities.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 1.1p per Ordinary Share was paid on 
23 March 2009. The Board has proposed a final dividend of 
2.4p per Ordinary Share, payable on 13 November 2009 to 
shareholders on the register at 16 October 2009, resulting in 
a total proposed dividend for the year of 3.5p per Ordinary 
Share (2008: 3.0p per Ordinary Share), an increase of 16.7%, 
reflecting our confidence in the growth of the business.
Strategy
Our strategic aims for 2009 were to enhance our business 
process outsourcing (‘BPO’) activities, to continue the 
development of our activities in the domestic heating and 
renewables markets and to capitalise further on our position 
within an expanded Carbon Emissions Reduction Target 
(‘CERT’) market. I am pleased to report progression on all 
of these aims.
The agreement reached with Government to extend eaga’s 
contract to deliver the Warm Front Scheme to the end of the 
current Government spending period, 31 March 2011, with 
provision for a further two year extension beyond that point 
strengthens our position in this key outsourced contract.  
Our delivery of the Digital Switchover Help Scheme for the 
BBC is also well underway, with eaga interacting with more 
than 1.1m eligible customers as part of that delivery. Our 
activities in this area have been further strengthened as we 
were appointed by the Department of Culture, Media and 
Sport (‘DCMS’) to deliver the digital switchover contract for 
care homes across the UK.
Chairman’s Statement
Charles Berry
Chairman
02 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our activities in the social housing heating market  
have recovered well in the year following last year’s 
challenges around contract profitability and integration.  
This recovery, together with several new contract wins and 
the development of a number of strategic partnerships  
to provide heating services, ensures that we have a strong 
platform for continued growth in the domestic heating  
and renewables markets.
Our delivery into the CERT market over the period has been 
at a greater volume than ever before – we estimate that 
our activity with all six utilities has saved more than 9.1m 
tonnes of CO
2
 during the year ended 31 May 2009. The roll 
out of the outsource contract for ScottishPower has been 
a success for both eaga and our customer. We believe the 
opportunities in the CERT market remain strong, supported 
by the Government’s announced 20% increase to the  
CERT obligation and reinforced by ongoing consultation  
to extend the CERT period by a further 21 months to  
31 December 2012.
The domestic carbon saving agenda was further boosted 
in the year with the launch of the Community Energy 
Saving Programme (‘CESP’). This initiative funded by energy 
suppliers and generators is intended to incentivise higher 
value retrofit interventions, such as renewable technologies 
and external wall insulation, in communities across the UK, 
where the Group is strategically well positioned.
As we look forward to 2010 our key objectives are to 
continue to diversify our contract base in the BPO market, 
continue to grow our domestic heating and renewables 
businesses through the further development of key 
strategic partnerships, and to capitalise on the ongoing 
opportunities in the CERT and CESP markets.
People and Culture
The performance eaga achieves is delivered by its people 
or, as we like to call them, Partners. Our Partners sustain 
and energise our approach to business, which is based 
on a number of core values. Those values are at the heart 
of eaga’s success and are focused on a primary aim of 
delivering outstanding customer service. We encourage 
and actively facilitate an operating culture in which our 
Partners can anticipate, understand and act upon the 
needs of our customers.
On behalf of all stakeholders, I would like to personally 
thank all of our Partners for their commitment, dedication 
and overall contribution to our continued success.
The Board
I am grateful to my Board colleagues for their ongoing 
support and counsel over the past twelve months.  
Their continued care, determination and foresight have 
contributed hugely to eaga’s development during the year.
The Board welcomed Roger Aylard as a Non-Executive 
Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009. 
Roger retired as Head of UK Investment Banking at Deutsche 
Bank in August 2007 after a career encompassing ten 
years in the oil industry, six years as a research analyst and 
fifteen years in corporate broking and corporate finance. 
During this time he acted as senior advisor to a wide range 
of major UK companies. His insight and experience add 
considerable value to a well established team.
17%
Rise in total dividend 
per share
3.5p 2009
3.0p 2008
03 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairman’s Statement
Continued
On 27 April 2009, eaga announced that John Clough MBE, 
the Company’s Chief Executive since its formation in 1990, 
was to retire with immediate effect. John’s decision to retire 
allows him to protect his long-term health. On behalf of the 
Board and his friends, colleagues and Partners, we thank 
him for his service and recognise him for the immense 
contribution he has made to eaga’s growth, development 
and success.
Following John’s retirement, the Board announced that 
Drew Johnson would be appointed Chief Executive with 
immediate effect. Drew has been the key architect of 
eaga’s commercial strategy and operational development 
that have been key to the growth of eaga throughout 
the eighteen years he has been with the business. His 
understanding of eaga’s business model and knowledge 
of the markets in which the Group operates is unparalleled. 
The Board is delighted with Drew’s appointment as Chief 
Executive and believe that he, together with the backing  
of a strong senior management team, will further develop 
the strategic direction of the business.
Outlook
The 2009 results demonstrate the Group’s ability to deliver 
continued strong growth, despite difficult economic 
conditions. The secured sales order book delivers strong 
revenue visibility for 2010 and eaga continues to be well 
positioned in its core markets, which offer positive and 
sustainable opportunities for further growth.
Building on our established platform, the Group has a  
clear focus on opportunities in the BPO, domestic heating 
and residential carbon saving markets to actively grow  
a diversified customer and contract base. Trading during 
the first quarter has been in line with expectations and  
the Board is confident that eaga will continue its growth, 
extend its successful track record and make further 
significant progress in the year to 31 May 2010.
Charles Berry, Chairman
1 September 2009
04 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 More than 37% of the shares in eaga are held in trust on 
behalf of Partners by ePT. This means that our Partners 
are the biggest shareholder in eaga. Our commitment 
to a co-owned business model drives engagement, an 
entrepreneurial spirit and significant added value from  
our Partners, and we believe this structure offers the 
strongest route to drive our future success.
eaga is defined by its culture and the values and 
behaviours that our Partners display. We each share 
an obligation to care for our Partners, customers and 
communities with integrity, respect and enthusiasm.  
As we grow as a business, so our reach and impact  
across our business locations widens and the imperative 
on each of us to continually re-energise and revitalise our 
culture remains strong. Corporate responsibility is not an 
add-on to eaga’s business, it is at the heart of everything 
we do and our desire to make a positive difference in  
the communities around us is what drives us forward.
Our operating culture and our co-owned business  
model are key factors in focusing the minds of our  
Partners on delivering excellent customer service.  
We believe passionately in giving our Partners the  
tools, the investment and the freedom to focus on  
and meet the needs of our customers.
As with any business of our size, there is a challenge  
in maintaining our culture as we expand and develop 
into new markets. At all levels of the organisation, we are 
committed to reinforcing, reinvigorating and renewing  
our values as we continue our growth plans.
eaga’s values, combined with a commitment to  
co-ownership, are at the centre of what makes the business 
a success and drives the performance and outstanding 
customer service of our employees.
Our values are:
All eaga Partners are recruited 
and assessed against strong 
corporate values. The values 
are supported by Corporate 
Standards and Performance 
Management.
Our Values
We embrace change and will maintain 
a sense of fun
We are a 
winning team
We are dedicated to
continuous improvement
We have a 
sense of urgency
We act 
responsibly and safely
We are 
professionals
We are 
customer focused
Our Partners
05 About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Making  
heating 
more 
efficient 
across the 
country  Leeds City Council is just one of 
the customers for whom eaga 
provides heating servicing, 
maintenance and repair, 
ensuring that their tenants are 
able heat their homes efficiently.
eaga provides central 
heating installation,  
repair and maintenance 
services to a wide range  
of customers across the 
public and private sector. 
One of these customers  
is Leeds City Council, with 
whom eaga has a five  
year contract to provide 
heating breakdown and 
annual service cover for 
over 7,000 homes across 
the Leeds area.
eaga has successfully 
retained the Leeds contract 
based on a track record of 
understanding the client’s 
needs in providing effective 
delivery and ensuring 
excellent service to the  
end customer in the home.
Our customers in this 
segment typically 
include social landlords, 
Government-funded 
programmes, energy utilities 
and able to pay customers.
The increasing demand 
for energy efficiency 
improvements has enabled 
eaga to build a business 
of significant scale and 
our Installation Services 
segment has more than 
3,500 of our Partners  
across the UK.
eagaheat
The domestic heating 
market in the UK is worth 
approximately £5bn 
annually and is currently 
served by a highly 
fragmented supply chain. 
Through our workforce of 
qualified heating engineers 
we are well placed to 
capitalise on the significant 
opportunities in this market 
place. This scale enables us 
to install over 40,000 central 
heating systems annually 
and provide service and 
breakdown cover to over 
400,000 households across 
the UK.
During 2009 we have re-
branded the majority of  
our heating businesses 
under the ‘eagaheat’ 
brand. This strategic 
consolidation of our 
branding brings together a 
number of well-established, 
proven businesses under 
one eaga brand.
eaga Insulation
eaga Insulation is one of the 
largest installers of loft and 
cavity wall insulation and 
related energy efficiency 
measures in the UK. There 
are significant opportunities 
in the domestic insulation 
market, particularly given 
the Government’s stated 
commitment to insulate  
6m homes across the UK by 
2012. The increasing scale of 
programmes such as CERT 
will drive this opportunity.
As well as domestic 
insulation we also provide 
a range of external wall 
insulation offerings for both 
domestic and commercial 
customers through our 
Horrocks and Howe 
subsidiaries.
Installation Services is eaga’s 
fastest growing segment. 
Through both organic growth 
and acquisitions we have 
built up one of the UK’s largest 
delivery platforms for the 
installation and maintenance  
of energy efficient heating 
systems, domestic insulation  
and renewable technologies.
Installation Services 
Our business is structured in 
three inter-related segments: 
Installation Services, Managed Services 
and Specialist Support Services. 
40%
Installation Services 
Revenue contribution to eaga 
07 About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Supporting 
the switch 
to digital The Switchover Help Scheme 
will offer support and advice 
to millions of homes across 
the country as we move from 
analogue to digital television. 
eaga delivers the Switchover 
Help Scheme on behalf of 
the BBC. The Scheme has 
been set up by the BBC 
through an agreement with 
Government to make sure 
that those who need it most 
benefit from practical 
support and advice during 
the digital switchover 
process. More than 7m 
eligible people are expected 
to qualify for assistance 
under the scheme.
The Switchover Help Scheme 
offers to convert one 
television set per eligible 
household between now 
and 2013. Eligible customers 
include those aged over 75, 
partially sighted or in receipt 
of certain disability benefits.
The support they can obtain 
includes:
• 	 h e l p 	 t o 	 c h o s e 	 t h e 	 r i g h t	
equipment;
• 	 e a s y 	 t o 	 u s e 	 e q u i p m e n t 	 t h a t	
suits individual needs;
• 	 i n s t a l l a t i o n , 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 n e w	
aerial if required; and
• 	 d e d ic a t e d 	 h e l pl i n e .
eaga’s experience  
in dealing with this  
customer group and  
our understanding of  
the specific dynamics  
of providing sensitive  
and appropriate service  
in this area, underpins our 
delivery of the Scheme 
across the country.
Managed Services is a  
market leader in delivering  
large scale complex  
outsourced programmes.
This segment delivers a 
number of high profile 
outsourced programmes 
across a broad and diverse 
contract base. 
Warm Front
Warm Front is the UK’s 
largest grant-funded 
programme for tackling 
fuel poverty and is funded 
by the Department for 
Energy and Climate 
Change. The Scheme has 
provided central heating 
and insulation measures, 
as well as income checks 
and energy advice to over 
750,000 households in the 
last three years.
The Home Energy Efficiency 
Scheme in Wales
We deliver a similar scheme 
to Warm Front in Wales (the 
Home Energy Efficiency 
Scheme, HEES Wales) 
on behalf of the Welsh 
Assembly Government. 
The Scheme offers a similar 
range of measures to Warm 
Front and has helped more 
than 100,000 households 
across Wales since it was 
launched in 2000.
Advice Services
We have over 170 Partners 
delivering telephone 
based advice to a variety 
of customers focusing on 
benefit entitlement, debt, 
housing and legal advice.
The growth in our advice 
services business has 
been entirely organic, 
with success driven by the 
quality of advice provided 
and the levels of customer 
service delivered. As global 
economic conditions 
become increasingly 
uncertain; the impact on 
personal finances, debt 
and affordability of basic 
essentials are all drivers 
for potential growth in our 
advice services work.
Digital Switchover  
Help Scheme
As noted overleaf the BBC 
has chosen eaga to deliver 
the Switchover Help Scheme, 
we estimate that there 
are more than 7m eligible 
people in the UK that can  
be assisted by the Scheme.
Managed Services 
5 1%
Managed Services 
Revenue contribution to eaga 
09 About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Delivering  
innovative 
carbon 
savings Specialist Support 
Services
Through a range of innovative 
products and services, eaga’s 
activities are helping to save 
millions of tonnes of carbon on 
behalf of a range of customers 
every year. 
eaga works with all  
six energy suppliers in 
helping them to meet  
their commitment under  
the CERT programme.
For example, eaga has 
worked with NPower for 
more than 7 years on  
their commitments under 
CERT and predecessor 
programmes, delivering  
a mixture of energy  
efficient lighting and 
ground-breaking residential 
carbon saving measures 
such as eaga ShowerSmart, 
consistently providing 
NPower with a proven,  
cost effective means  
of meeting carbon  
saving targets.
This segment draws on 
eaga’s established delivery 
platform and customer 
base and provides a 
diverse range of innovative 
carbon saving services and 
products.
Innovative Carbon Saving 
Solutions
Our Specialist Support 
Services segment has 
developed and now  
delivers a wide spectrum  
of innovative carbon saving 
measures, including the 
eaga ShowerSmart and 
a Powerdown device, 
the “Standbyoff”. The 
eaga ShowerSmart is an 
innovative device that can 
be fitted to a non-electric 
shower and will save 12,000 
litres of water per year, 
which equates to £30 off 
both gas and water bills 
and one tonne of CO2 for 
an average four person 
household.
eaga’s nationwide delivery 
platform also means 
that other carbon saving 
measures, such as energy 
saving lighting, can be 
delivered at scale in this 
segment through our 
fulfilment operation. Building 
on both the Schemes 
delivered in Managed 
Services and our CERT-
facing commitments, our 
fulfilment business last year 
supplied over 14 million 
energy efficient light bulbs 
across the UK.
Central Heating Aftercare
Our aftercare services 
include the provision of 
insurance-backed two-
year warranties for heating 
systems installed under fuel 
poverty Schemes. Annual 
service visits and repair 
and maintenance work 
are undertaken chiefly by 
WarmSure, supported by 
third party providers.
Specialist Support Services 
provides products and services 
into the CERT market that offer 
low cost, high volume carbon 
saving and also houses our 
aftercare services on heating.
9%
Specialist Support Services
Revenue contribution to eaga 
11 About eaga eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Drew Johnson was appointed 
as our new Chief Executive 
Officer on 27 April 2009. He 
answers some questions about 
the progress and future of eaga.
Q1 
What is your background – how long have you  
been with eaga?
I’ve been with eaga since 1991, so almost twenty years now. 
Prior to coming to eaga, I worked in supply chain logistics at 
British Coal, where I began my working relationship with John 
Clough, eaga’s previous Chief Executive. John brought me to 
eaga, and I worked closely alongside him in the commercial 
development and growth of the business. 
Over the years, I’ve led eaga’s commercial expansion 
strategy, identifying and driving forward opportunities for 
acquisitive growth, at the same time I have ensured that 
businesses such as eagaheat, our central heating subsidiary, 
have grown organically from a standing start in 2004 to  
a business now turning over more than £70m annually. 
Q2 
What do you see as eaga’s main strengths? 
One important strength is that we operate in very attractive, 
sustainable markets – the demand for proven outsource 
providers, established national deliverers of heating and 
renewables and sources of scalable residential carbon 
savings is clear. eaga’s infrastructure, customer-focused 
approach and track record for delivery means that we’re 
really well placed to continue growing in these markets. 
Our most important asset is our ability to understand and 
meet the needs of our customers – whether that’s central  
or local Government or a major energy supplier, we know 
what is driving their agenda and can shape and alter the 
services we provide to meet those needs. Our Partners bring 
this ability to life. Their professionalism, dedication, flexibility 
and focus on customer service is crucial to our success.
Q3 
What is the biggest challenge facing you as  
Chief Executive?
For any business that’s growing as quickly as eaga,  
it’s always a priority for us to remember the key success 
factors that have brought us this far as we expand.  
We’re competing for, and winning, new contracts across  
the country and the challenge for me is to maintain that 
customer-focused approach throughout all of our business 
units. As a company we’ve grown up with a clear set of 
values, placing our customers at the heart of everything  
we do – as we grow and diversify into new areas of business, 
it’s critical that we don’t lose sight of those foundations of 
our success. 
Q4
What do you think are your key priorities for the next  
twelve months?
We’ve grown and developed an impressive platform for the 
business – both in terms of geographic spread and in terms 
of the range of products and services we’re able to deliver. 
The challenge for us now is to really drive that platform and 
secure additional new work; both in our core markets with 
our existing customer base and into new markets as we take 
advantage of the scale and the infrastructure we’ve built. 
The priority has to be on maintaining our momentum, 
during our growth by maximising the number of 
opportunities that are out there, whilst at the same time 
ensuring that we select the right opportunities to go for; 
ones that will add value to our contract portfolio and 
strengthen our reputation for delivery with key audiences  
as well enhancing as our profitability and sustainability  
as a business. 
Q&A with our new CEO
Drew Johnson
12 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Q5 
What sort of company would you like eaga to be in five 
years’ time?
It’s important that we retain some of the key characteristics 
that have taken us this far – remembering that our ability  
to anticipate, understand and deliver on the needs of our 
customer base should always take priority. Their requirements 
and the products and services we deliver on their behalf,  
will inevitably change as the underlying conditions change  
– what’s important for us is that we’re ready to meet those 
changing priorities ahead of time. 
To do that, it’s vitally important that we have the right 
management structure and leadership team in place  
to deliver; building on the strong unit we have now and 
supplementing it with the right people to capitalise on  
the opportunities that are out there. 
Above all else, I’d like the business in five years time  
to be continuing to maximise the opportunities that  
present themselves by leading the way in its core  
markets – driving excellent customer service in the  
BPO arena; implementing at scale the domestic heating 
and renewable energy technologies of the future and 
continuing to provide the innovative residential carbon 
saving solutions; all of which will drive our growth. 
Q6 
What makes eaga different?
A number of things. First, our business is structured in such  
a way that the interaction between our business segments 
adds real value to the component parts – we’re able to 
maximise the expertise and the commercial relationships 
that exist in different parts of eaga to bring value to the 
whole Group. Second, our focus on our values-driven 
approach is important – it drives everything that we do. 
eaga Partners are recruited, developed and retained based 
on the strength of their ability to live those values, and in turn 
that drives forward excellent service for our customers. 
Finally, I think we’re different because we act on the things  
we stand for. Our commitment to our communities, to 
sustainability and to the customer group we serve is real;  
it runs through the heart of the business and it adds real 
value to the commercial proposition we bring. Our ability  
to not just keep this alive, but re-energise and refresh it as  
we grow, is hugely important. 
13 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational Review
Drew Johnson
Chief Executive Officer
I am pleased to present this 
review of the last twelve months 
and, as Chief Executive, to be 
in a position to drive forward 
eaga’s continuing commercial 
growth and diversification.  
The business has gone through 
a number of changes over  
the last twelve months, but the 
imperatives that will not change 
are our focus on delivering for 
our customers and the drive  
to keep our values at the heart 
of what we do.
eaga’s Markets
eaga’s expansion and strategic development over the  
last two years has been focused on realising the emerging 
potential evident in the Group’s core markets. These are 
centred around:
•	 busin ess 	 pr o c ess 	 outsour cing 	 ( ‘ B P O ’ ) , 	 wher e 	 w e 	 d eliv er	
large scale programmes for a range of customers, such as 
the Department of Energy and Climate Change (‘DECC’), 
the BBC and the Legal Services Commission (‘LSC’);
• 	 t h e 	 p r o v i s i o n 	 o f 	 e n e r g y 	 e f f i c i e n t 	 c e n t r a l 	 h e a t i n g 	 a n d	
renewable energy solutions, along with associated  
repair, maintenance and servicing products; and
•	 r esid en tial 	 carb on 	 saving 	 solutions , 	 pr o viding 	 ser vic es	 
for energy utilities and residential social landlords.
Business Process Outsourcing
eaga has an established infrastructure and customer-
focused approach, built up primarily in our Managed 
Services segment through a wealth of experience in 
delivering schemes such as Warm Front and the Switchover 
Help Scheme. This strong base ensures that we are well 
placed to take advantage of the sizeable opportunities 
in the wider central and local Government outsourcing 
market, which is estimated to be worth £7bn 
1
 annually.  
With pressures mounting on the public purse, the need 
to target cost savings and efficiencies by outsourcing 
processes and services to reliable partners is increasingly 
evident across both central and local Government.
Fuel Poverty Schemes
The Warm Front Scheme is one of the major outsourced 
programmes delivered on behalf of central Government. 
The Scheme is Government’s central instrument for tackling 
energy affordability in England, and is wholly delivered 
by eaga. Warm Front continues to form a critical element 
within Government’s statutory commitment to eradicate 
fuel poverty in vulnerable households (those containing 
children, the elderly, disabled or long-term sick) by 2010 
and in all homes by 2016. The value for money provided  
by eaga as lead contractor for Warm Front was endorsed  
in a National Audit Office report released in February 2009.
Activity under the Scheme is dependent upon the funding 
made available by Government. In recognising both the 
Scheme’s popularity and the increasing imperative to take 
further action on its fuel poverty objectives, the Government 
announced two separate increases in Warm Front funding 
over the last twelve months. The first, an additional £74m for 
the 2008/09 and 2009/10 financial years, was announced 
on 11 September 2008 as part of the Home Energy Saving 
Programme. This was followed by the announcement in the 
Pre-Budget Report on 24 November 2008 that the Scheme 
would benefit from an additional £100m over the three year 
period to March 2011. These funding increases took annual 
funding for Warm Front to £395m for the twelve months to  
31 March 2009, compared to £350m during the twelve 
months to 31 March 2008.
eaga has worked closely with DECC as our customer  
in outlining and implementing several changes to the 
Scheme over the last twelve months. The structural  
changes that have been announced over the period 
include an increase in the maximum grant available, 
changes to the supply chain allocation process and  
some changes to the delivery process aimed at making  
the Scheme more seamless for the end customer.  
The new contract, which was finalised on 22 July 2009, 
extends eaga’s tenure to 31 March 2011 and has provision 
for a further two year extension beyond that point. 
1
  ICT and business process outsourcing in the UK public sector to 2012, Kable.
14 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The equivalent fuel poverty scheme in Wales (‘HEES’) 
continues to operate well with additional funding secured 
in the year. Whilst being unsuccessful in the retender for 
the Northern Ireland programme, we are currently in the 
process of tendering for delivery and management of  
the fuel poverty programmes in Scotland. 
Switchover Help Scheme
We have seen a ramp up in activity on the delivery of 
the Switchover Help Scheme with four transmitter regions 
switched in the year, covering Borders and the West 
Country. The process of switchover went well in each  
area, with the Switchover Help Scheme offering effective 
support throughout to elderly and disabled householders. 
In managing the Switchover Help Scheme, eaga is continuing 
to strengthen relationships with potential partners in this arena, 
which may offer future potential for extending relationships 
into wider commercial opportunities as the digitisation 
agenda gathers pace. This was illustrated during the year by 
eaga’s successful bid to manage the care homes element of 
the Switchover Help Scheme which was tendered separately 
to the main programme by the Department of Culture, Media 
and Sport.
Whilst we are still relatively early in the life of the Switchover 
Help Scheme, at year end we had already written and 
offered assistance to more than 1.1m households across  
the country, providing help and support across a range  
of available options to make the switch to digital television.  
The next areas to switch to digital will be Wales and 
Granada. More than 1.7m households are estimated  
to be eligible in these areas alone, and we are already 
actively increasing our capacity further to meet the 
challenge of delivering in these regions.
Advice Services
eaga delivers telephone based advice services for  
a variety of customers focusing principally on benefits,  
debt and legal advice. As global economic conditions 
become increasingly difficult the impact on personal 
finances, debt and affordability of basic essentials are  
all drivers for growth in our advice services work.
Activity under our contracts with 
the LSC, as well as for the fuel 
poverty schemes we manage, 
has continued its growth over the 
period. This growth has been entirely 
organic, with success driven by the 
quality of advice provided and the 
levels of customer service delivered.  
This was pivotal in the decision 
by the LSC to exercise a two year 
extension to March 2011 to eaga’s 
contract as one of its preferred 
suppliers. In the year to 31 May 2009 
we have opened some 20,000 cases 
under our contract with the LSC, an 
increase of 31% from the prior year.
On the income advisory elements of our work, the team 
completed some 84,000 Benefit Entitlement Checks last 
year, an increase of 21% from the prior year. Where a  
check revealed additional entitlement to benefit, as it  
does in more than 40% of cases, our advisors identified  
an average increase in income of more than £1,600  
per year for those householders.
Future Opportunities
eaga’s prospects for ongoing development in the wider 
BPO market are promising. As local authority budgets 
become increasingly pressured, so the imperative to 
consider cost savings and efficiencies by outsourcing 
processes becomes increasingly compelling.
16 %
Rise in revenue
£7 38.9m 2009
£639.0m 2008
15 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational Review 
Continued
An important element of our development in this area has 
been our agreement to form a joint venture with Newcastle 
City Council to compete effectively in the local authority 
market. The venture, to be branded ‘The Real Partnership’, 
brings together eaga’s established infrastructure and 
delivery model and Newcastle City Council’s knowledge 
and understanding of the market drivers. The venture is 
likely to have a six to twelve month lead in time to secure 
new contracts as processes become established, but offers 
potential for significant growth and expansion into the local 
authority BPO market. 
Domestic Heating and Renewable Energy Services
Through the Group’s Installation Services segment eaga 
is one of the largest installers of energy efficient central 
heating in the UK. It is estimated that this fragmented 
market is worth in excess of £5bn
2
 annually. Our customers 
in these markets include social landlords, Government-
funded fuel poverty schemes, strategic commercial 
partners and private able to pay customers.
We have seen installation activity increase by approximately 
7% during the year, with 44,800 (2008: 41,700) installations 
completed. This is significant in the current economic 
context, where some areas of the market have seen a 
slowing of installation programmes in light of fiscal tightening.
A key element of our development in the domestic heating 
market during the past twelve months has been a focus 
on brand identity. To support this development our heating 
businesses have commenced a strategic re-branding 
exercise to bring several of our established central heating 
operations under the single brand identity of eagaheat. 
This re-branding process will continue over the next twelve 
months in order to unify the eaga brand across the markets 
in which we compete.
Improved delivery into the social housing heating market 
during the year reflects our focus on recovery following the 
challenges last year relating to contract integration. I am 
pleased to confirm that those areas of the business are now 
performing strongly and provide a solid platform for growth.
This recovery, allied to ongoing success winning new 
contracts supports our view that this remains an attractive 
marketplace. Overall, our market share within the social 
housing arena remains significant, with 189,000 (2008: 
205,000) boilers under maintenance and servicing contracts 
at year end. The reduction in properties under cover reflects 
our decision to withdraw from a small number of unprofitable 
contracts during the early part of the financial year. Since 
the year end we have seen a number of successful contract 
retentions, along with new contract wins. 
Future Opportunities 
The private heating market is addressed by eaga through 
programmes such as Warm Front and through a number 
of strategic partnerships. We are ideally placed to deliver 
high quality services to our strategic partners given our 
established nationwide platform, which provides us with 
significant opportunity for further growth. Our capacity 
is clearly demonstrated by eaga securing a contract to 
deliver emergency heating breakdown services to the 
customers of a leading credit card provider.
In order to better realise the full range of opportunities 
available through the development of our emergency 
breakdown and servicing business, eaga reached 
agreement with Ideal Boilers Limited on 31 August 2009  
to acquire their share of the WarmSure joint venture.  
During the year to 31 May 2009 WarmSure, which offers 
nationwide heating repair and maintenance services, 
performed 247,000 annual service visits and 177,000 
breakdown visits, increases of 26% and 24% respectively.  
The development of the WarmSure business is already 
offering opportunities to deliver central heating servicing 
and repair services into new customer relationships.
eaga has a strong position in the small but growing 
domestic low carbon and renewable energy markets.  
The market has seen limited growth during the year to  
31 May 2009, but we have worked hard to position ourselves 
for the opportunities that we expect to unfold following the 
launch of the Government’s Low Carbon Transition Plan
3
 
and related Renewable Energy Strategy
4
 during July 2009.  
It is our expectation that developments such as feed-in 
tariffs will provide a significant stimulus to this market.
The confirmation of additional strategic alliances with 
organisations such as Solar century have secured a 
platform to further grow our renewables business. Solar 
century is the UK’s leading solar energy company and 
our partnership will provide opportunities for delivery 
of installation and related services for our renewables 
business. Drawing together the full range of our products 
and services in the heating installation, servicing and repair 
market is likely to lead to further opportunities for strategic 
partnerships and bundled service offerings in new markets. 
Residential Carbon Saving
The UK residential carbon savings market is driven primarily 
through long-term regulatory requirements imposed 
by Government on the energy suppliers and electricity 
generators. The CERT and soon to be implemented  
CESP programmes require the suppliers and generators  
to invest in energy efficiency improvements in UK residential  
housing stock. The current targets require estimated  
2
  BRG consultant and Ideal Stelrad Limited manufacturing data
3
  www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/publications
4
  www.berr.gov.uk/consultations
16 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 annual expenditure in excess of £1bn. eaga is one of  
the key solution providers for the energy companies  
and we estimate that our market share is close to 20%.
As the drive for residential carbon savings continues 
to gather momentum, through the expansion of these 
programmes, there will continue to be significant 
opportunities for proven delivery providers who are  
focused on innovative, high volume, scalable carbon 
saving products and services. Through the Installation 
Services and Specialist Support Services segments, the 
Group has a strong position in the delivery of carbon 
savings to UK energy suppliers. The Government’s decision 
to broaden the statutory obligation to deliver residential 
carbon savings by extending the requirement to the UK 
electricity generators extends our revenue potential and 
target customer base in this market.
Our delivery into this market is characterised by our ability  
to generate domestic residential carbon savings from a 
range of solutions; the key being our capacity to deliver,  
at scale, both traditional solutions, such as loft and cavity 
wall insulation, alongside more innovative solutions such  
as eaga ShowerSmart and external wall insulation.
Volume delivery of new carbon saving technologies such  
as eaga ShowerSmart is becoming increasingly important 
in this marketplace. The eaga ShowerSmart device typically 
results in a saving on household energy bills, with reduced 
energy used to heat hot water. For the average household, 
the device could save £30 a year off the average energy bill 
and a similar amount from the average water bill. Last year 
almost 450,000 eaga ShowerSmart devices were distributed 
to homes across the country, each one having the potential 
to save a tonne of carbon in the domestic setting. We are 
already working on a portfolio of other innovative solutions 
which, when delivered at the scale that eaga can offer, will 
provide the next platform for further domestic energy and 
carbon savings at rates attractive to our customers.
eaga’s position in the CERT market was boosted by the 
Government’s announcement on 11 September 2008 to 
increase the CERT obligation on energy suppliers by 20% 
and more recently, their intention to extend the end date of 
the obligation by 21 months to December 2012. The increase 
in the targets positions us positively for further growth in this 
area by supporting our customers’ delivery of additional 
savings against their increased obligations.
Our delivery into the residential carbon savings market 
has benefited over the period from the commercial 
relationships in place with all six of the UK’s major energy 
suppliers. Of particular importance is the Group’s contract 
with ScottishPower to deliver their entire CERT target. This 
contract is the first of its kind within the CERT market and bears 
out eaga’s expertise and experience in relation to market 
understanding, targeting and carbon management. Delivery 
commenced in September 2008 and has driven significant 
activity – we have already seen more than 5.2m tonnes of 
CO
2 saved.
Future Opportunities
As part of the announcement to expand CERT, the 
Government also launched CESP, which is projected 
to be worth £350m over the 2009/12 period, drawing in 
contributions from electricity generators as well as energy 
suppliers. We have already made progress in building 
relationships with generators as we seek to develop 
opportunities under CESP, using our national infrastructure 
to support localised delivery of energy efficiency measures 
and initiatives. Since the year end, we have reached 
an advanced stage of negotiation with a key electricity 
generator to deliver their whole CESP programme in the UK 
and we are pursuing a number of other similar opportunities.
Collectively, the developments on CERT and CESP provide 
strong visibility of revenues as we move forward and position 
us well for further growth and expansion within this market. 
Moreover, we remain relatively well positioned to deal with 
volatility in market demand. The size of our business, the 
diversity of our product offering and our captive volumes 
mean that eaga has a broader range of alternative 
opportunities and significant flexibility to manage our 
activities in this area.
Segmental Performance
Managed Services
eaga’s Managed Services segment provides outsourced 
solutions to local and central Government and other 
commercial organisations.
Revenues increased 4.5% to £439.2m (2008: £420.3m). This 
growth reflected increased Warm Front revenue following 
the incremental funding discussed earlier and the first year 
impact of the Switchover Help Scheme. EBITA increased 
11.6% to £9.6m (2008: £8.6m) and operating margins were  
in line with our expectations at 2.2% (2008: 2.1%).
17 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational Review 
Continued
Under Warm Front, we assisted 233,000 households  
in the year (2008: 264,000), we continue to deliver short 
waiting times, high levels of customer satisfaction and  
a solid track record on health and safety. Increasing levels 
of activity under the Switchover Help Scheme, alongside 
continued growth in our Advice Services business, have 
also contributed to increased revenues and stable margins 
in this segment.
Installation Services
eaga’s Installation Services segment delivers energy 
efficiency improvements, along with central heating 
installation and related services to homes across the UK.
The segment continued to grow strongly during the year, 
primarily through organic development. Revenues increased 
36.8% to £340.8m (2008: £249.1m). EBITA increased by 38.8% 
to £26.8m (2008: £19.3m) and operating margins increased 
to 7 .9% (2008: 7 .8%) reflecting changes in business mix, 
improvements in social housing contract delivery and  
focus on maintaining efficiency across our operations.
The majority of the growth in this segment has been organic 
in nature, driven by increasing levels of activity on behalf 
of utility customers in the CERT market and within that, 
specifically the delivery of our ScottishPower outsourcing 
contract. We have directly delivered 199,000 main measure 
insulation improvements in the year representing a 24% 
increase on the prior year. 
Specialist Support Services
eaga’s Specialist Support Services segment provides a range 
of solutions which support the contracts and customers we 
serve in our other segments. These include central heating 
aftercare and insurance services, wholesale insulation and 
fulfilment and brokerage activities in support of the delivery  
of energy saving products to the CERT market.
Our service offerings in this segment provide us with a flexible 
model to allow us to provide our customers with cost effective 
solutions whilst maintaining our margins. During the year we 
have achieved a shift in the mix of carbon savings delivered 
to our CERT market customers through the introduction 
of innovative energy saving products such as eaga 
ShowerSmart.
Revenues increased by 1.3% to £78.0m (2008: £77 .0m). This 
reflects £6.9m revenue contributed from the acquisition of the 
Protocol group of companies during the year to enhance the 
Group’s fulfilment and distribution capability, partially offset 
by reduced revenues arising primarily from a change in CERT 
product mix. 
EBITA has increased by 6.7% to £10.8m (2008: £10.1m), with 
EBITA margin of 13.8% (2008: 13.1%). This increase in margin 
principally reflects the impact of the mix switch towards 
innovative CERT solutions.
18 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Summary
Since we last updated the market the fundamental  
drivers behind eaga’s ongoing growth have continued  
to strengthen and the outlook in the Group’s core markets 
remains positive. We see significant opportunities in all of our 
markets. We believe that the retrofitting of energy efficient 
measures to the existing housing stock will continue to be a 
major driver of the shift towards a low carbon economy. The 
social pressures exerted by the current economic challenges 
and technological change will continue to stimulate interest 
in the products and services that we offer supported, at all 
times by the customer understanding and commitment to 
service that is at the heart of eaga’s business.
In order to take advantage of these opportunities, the 
challenge ahead is to continue building and developing 
the right partnerships, to enhance our strong market 
position and our established business platform. Crucially  
for eaga, we know that our greatest strength is our ability  
to deliver for our customers; keeping them at the heart  
of everything that we do and building on our success  
as we move forward.
With another positive year of growth and success behind us, 
a strong balance sheet, and a diverse range of promising 
opportunities coming more sharply into view, I am confident 
that eaga remains well placed to deliver continued 
profitable growth. 
Drew Johnson, Chief Executive
1 September 2009
19 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Improving  
our local 
environment Central to our success is 
our commitment to the 
principles of employee 
ownership (‘Partnership’) 
and a strong set of 
corporate and social 
values. The company’s 
Partnership ethos underpins 
our approach to business 
and how we interact with 
the local communities in 
which its employees live  
and work.
eaga was founded to 
lead Government-funded 
efforts to improve the living 
conditions of vulnerable 
people living in cold, damp 
and energy inefficient 
homes. More than £3m 
has been invested in 
the independent eaga 
Partnership Charitable Trust 
and funded vital research 
into solutions to fuel 
poverty. Local community 
organisations, charities, 
schools and individuals 
can also apply for funding 
from the eaga Community 
Foundation fund which 
supports projects related 
to the environment and 
education in the local 
communities in which 
eaga’s Partners live  
and work.
eaga is a people business 
with more than 4,000 Partners 
committed to delivering 
outstanding service 
to its customers. 
£3m 
More than £3m has been invested 
cumulatively in the independent eaga 
Partnership Charitable Trust and funded 
vital research into solutions to fuel poverty.
Supporting the communities 
in which we live and work with 
structured and sustainable 
financial and human resource.
We established the eaga 
Community Fund during 
2007 to support community 
organisations as they seek 
to tackle, at a local level, the 
social and environmental 
issues that are aligned 
with our own business 
interests. The fund supports 
projects that educate, 
raise awareness and 
demonstrate engagement 
in addressing environmental 
issues at a grass roots 
level. Applications that 
also offer opportunities for 
participation and direct 
involvement for eaga 
Partners are particularly 
welcome, as we feel we 
have a role to play in 
encouraging our Partners 
to become engaged and 
contribute positively to their 
local communities.
eaga in the Community 
21 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financial Review
Ian McLeod
Group Finance Director
The Group has continued its track record of delivering 
growth in both revenue and EBITA (profit before interest, tax, 
amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges and 
exceptional costs), as well as strong cash generation. This 
has principally been delivered via organic growth across 
the business with further contribution from acquisitions. The 
Group remains cash positive at the year end with net cash, 
being cash and cash equivalents less loans and borrowings, 
of £31.3m at 31 May 2009 (2008: £14.8m).
Group Result
Revenue has increased by £99.9m (15.6%) to £738.9m 
(2008: £639.0m). Acquisitions accounted for £17.2m of this 
growth with the remaining £82.7m delivered organically.
EBITA increased by £9.2m (24.1%) to £47.2m (2008: £38.0m). 
Acquisitions accounted for £1.7m of this growth with the 
remaining £7.5m arising organically. This is summarised  
in the following table:
 Revenue Revenue EBITA EBITA
 £m growth % £m %
Year to 31 May 2008 639.0 – 38.0 6.0%
Organic growth 82.7 12.9% 7.5 9.0%
Acquisition in the year 6.9 1.1% 0.7 9.7%
Inter-segment eliminations 
of acquisitions* (6.9) (1.1%) – –
Full year effect of prior  
year acquisitions 17.2 2.7% 1.0 6.1%
Year to 31 May 2009 738.9 15.6% 47.2 6.4%
* Whilst the acquisition of the Protocol group of companies has 
increased segmental revenues of Specialist Support Services, 
as these services are primarily delivered to other segments 
the acquisition has not increased Group revenue.
Segmental Performance
The Group continues to monitor business performance 
using revenue, EBITA and EBITA margin as the key 
indicators of performance. Year on year differences 
in these performance metrics are summarised in the 
following table: 
  2009 2008 Change
  £m £m  £m
Revenue
Managed Services  439.2 420.3 18.9
Installation Services  340.8 249.1 91.7
Specialist Support Services  78.0 77.0 1.0
Eliminations  (119.1) (107.4) (11.7)
    738.9 639.0 99.9
EBITA
Managed Services  9.6 8.6 1.0
Installation Services  26.8 19.3 7.5
Specialist Support Services  10.8 10.1 0.7
    47.2 38.0 9.2
EBITA margin  
Managed Services  2.2% 2.1% 0.1%
Installation Services  7.9% 7.8% 0.1%
Specialist Support Services  13.8% 13.1% 0.7%
    6.4% 6.0% 0.4%
Managed Services
Managed Services revenues increased by £18.9m (4.5%) 
to £439.2m (2008: £420.3m). This has been mainly driven 
by increased funding levels for Government-funded fuel 
poverty programmes and the first full year of the Switchover 
Help Scheme.
We started the current financial year with funding for the 
year to 31 March 2009 on Warm Front of £295m compared 
to £350m in the prior year. However during the autumn  
of 2008 the Government announced an additional £174m  
of funding for Warm Front spread over the fiscal years 
2008/9 to 2010/11. We have assisted 233,000 customers  
in the year through Warm Front and generated revenue  
of approximately £374m in 2009 (2008: £364m).
EBITA margin has remained relatively constant in 2009  
at 2.2% (2008: 2.1%).
22 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Installation Services
Installation Services revenues have grown by £91.7m (36.8%) 
to £340.8m (2008: £249.1m). This increase comprises £3.7m 
relating to the continued growth in the delivery of Managed 
Services contracts, £17.2m relating to full year effect of the 
prior year acquisitions of Horrocks Group plc, George Howe 
Limited, AFR Limited and RG Francis Limited and £70.8m 
of other organic growth. The organic growth is principally 
driven from the first year impact of the ScottishPower 
contract together with other contract wins in the social 
housing and CERT parts of our business.
EBITA margin has shown slight growth to 7.9% (2008: 7.8%). 
This reflects the recovery of our social housing businesses,  
in particular RG Francis Limited, together with the impact 
of mix shift towards insulation and maintaining efficiencies 
across our operations. 
Specialist Support Services
Specialist Support Services revenues have increased 
marginally by £1.0m (1.3%) to £78.0m (2008: £77 .0m). This 
reflects growth from the acquisition of the Protocol group 
of companies in the year which has generated turnover of 
£6.9m partially offset by some reductions in turnover from 
other revenue streams in this segment. This reduction mainly 
reflects a flexing of the mix of products delivered into CERT 
with a lower volume of brokerage services and the sale 
of products such as eaga ShowerSmart with a resultant 
decrease in headline sales levels.
EBITA margin has shown growth in 2009 at 13.8% (2008: 13.1%).  
This primarily reflects the switch in the delivery of CERT 
obligations in 2009 compared to 2008 as noted above.
Taxation
The tax expense for the Group is £10.8m (2008: £8.9m). This 
represents an effective rate of 28.5% (2008: 31.5%). Excluding 
the impact of exceptional costs, ePT-funded charges and 
associated tax adjustments this results in an underlying 
effective rate of 28.7% (2008: 30.3%).
The underlying effective rate is 0.7% higher (2008: 0.6%) than 
the standard rate of taxation of 28.0% (2008: 29.7%) due to 
disallowable expenditure incurred by the Group.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.4p per 
share (2008: 2.0p) giving a total dividend for the year of 
3.5p (2008: 3.0p). This represents a growth of 16.7% in line 
with the Group’s progressive policy of returning value to 
shareholders.
Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share increased by 48.5% to 10.69p 
(2008: 7.20p). Adjusted diluted earnings per share (adjusted 
for amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges, 
exceptional costs and associated tax adjustments) 
increased by 26% to 13.38p (2008: 10.62p).
Exceptional costs in the current year comprise a share-
based payment charge in respect of the fair value of share 
options granted to certain Partners by ePT under the IPO 
Key Management Plan of £0.3m (2008: £2.6m). The ePT-
funded Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) cost of £1.6m (2008: £Nil) 
represents the share-based payment charge in respect of 
the fair value of shares granted under the SIP. Because the 
expense is fully funded by ePT and not the Company, via 
the waiver of its interim and final dividends relating to the 
year ended 31 May 2008, this cost has been separately 
disclosed on the face of the income statement.
Acquisitions
On 14 October 2008 the Group acquired Protocol 
Communications Management Limited (‘Protocol’) 
providing the Group with a cost effective in-house 
fulfilment and distribution operation to support activities 
in our Government and CERT-funded contracts. The initial 
consideration paid was £1.5m with up to a further £1.5m 
contingent consideration payable depending on the post 
acquisition results of Protocol.
In addition, during the year the Group paid a further  
net £3.1m of deferred cash consideration in connection  
with acquisitions made in prior years.
23 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financial Review 
Continued
Treasury
Strategy and Management
The Group’s balance sheet strength has enabled a flexible 
approach to be taken to meet its funding requirements  
with the majority of working capital requirements being  
met from internal cash generation. This position has been 
further strengthened by the signing, on 17 March 2009, 
of new credit facilities with Barclays Bank plc. The new 
facilities provide the Group with £75m of available facilities 
comprising £60m revolving credit facility of which none  
was drawn down at year end, a £5m overdraft facility of 
which none was drawn down at year end and a £10m  
letter of credit required on a major contract in the Group.  
The revolving credit facility is in place for a period of three 
years to 17 March 2012, the overdraft is renewable on  
17 March 2010 and the letter of credit is in place up to  
31 December 2013. Costs incurred in connection with  
the new facilities of £0.8m are being amortised to the  
income statement over the life of the relevant facility.
These facilities will provide the Group with greater flexibility 
on the funding of working capital or other investment 
requirements in the short to medium term.
At 31 May 2009 the Group’s aggregate undrawn finance 
facilities were £65m, together with the Group’s net cash 
position of £31.3m, provides headroom of approximately 
£96.3m (2008: £51.2m).
Each business unit in the Group manages its own cash 
position on a day to day basis subject to the majority of  
bank accounts being part of a central netting facility with 
Barclays Bank plc. The Group’s banking arrangements are 
negotiated and monitored by a central treasury function. 
Surplus cash is placed on deposit with a view to maximising 
investment income. The Group has a limit of not placing 
more than £20m with any single institution and all institutions 
used for the depositing funds are required to be rated by 
Standard and Poor as A or better. Typically deposits of  
surplus funds are made for a period of up to three months.
The Group does not have major exposure to interest rate 
movements as it does not have any significant drawn 
floating rate liabilities in place. If such liabilities are drawn 
down in the future then the Group will seek to manage the 
exposure to floating interest rates via appropriate hedging 
instruments where it is cost effective for the Group to do so.
The Group does have some exposure to foreign currency 
transactions predominately through the purchase of 
equipment/stock from overseas. Whilst the exposure is not 
yet significant, the Group is exploring a number of hedging 
strategies that will be implemented if the level of exposure 
increases appreciably.
The Group’s net finance income was £0.2m compared to 
£0.4m in the prior year, principally reflecting lower interest 
rates in the year.
Liquidity and Cash Flows
The Group continues to be cash positive and at  
31 May 2009 had cash and cash equivalents of £31.9m 
(2008: £15.3m), an increase of £16.6m during the year.
The following table summarises the cash flows for the Group:
   2009 2008
   £m £m
Cash generated from operations   40.3 21.9
Interest and tax   (3.0) 0.8
Cash generated from operating activities  37.3 22.7
Net capital expenditure   (4.7) (3.8)
Acquisitions   (4.6) (35.9)
Funds raised at flotation   – 29.0
Net financing including dividends  (11.4) (2.2)
Increase in cash   16.6 9.8
24 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risks and Uncertainties
The Group has a dedicated risk management team 
together with a risk forum and Risk Review Board to monitor 
and evaluate the results of the risk management process 
in each business unit. The Risk Review Board reports to the 
Board and Audit Committee on a regular basis regarding 
the effectiveness of the risk identification process and 
the actions plans developed by the business to mitigate 
significant risks.
The key risks facing the Group include:
Financial Risk
The Group’s operations expose it to a range of financial 
risks with the principal risks being credit and liquidity risks. 
As noted above the Group monitors the level of cash flow 
requirements and borrowings through its central treasury 
function. The Group has access to £65m of available 
facilities which can be drawn on demand providing  
access to debt when required.
The Group manages its credit risk through credit checks  
on potential and existing customers. A significant proportion 
of the Group’s receivables balances are with central and 
local Government, BBC and energy suppliers in the UK 
which lowers the credit default risk for the Group.
Economic Conditions
Certain of the Group’s operations could be impacted by  
a downturn in the UK economy and, for some parts of our 
business, specifically a downturn in the housing market and 
building sectors. The Group has mitigated the impact of the 
risk of a downturn in these sectors through cost management 
strategies and by having a diversified contract base.
Government Policy
A significant change in Government policies in relation  
to fuel poverty, energy efficiency and social inclusion  
could have a significant impact on the Group’s future 
revenues and profitability. The Group mitigates this risk  
by having a diversified contact base and working closely 
with Government customers.
Customer Relationships
eaga has a number of long-term contractual relationships. 
The risk of a contract loss or dispute having a significant 
impact on the Group’s future profitability is managed 
through regular contract reviews and meetings with senior 
management of customers in order that we respond to  
their needs and deliver service that meets or exceeds  
their expectations.
Health and Safety
eaga’s activities expose it to the risk of material health 
and safety liabilities. The Group employs health and safety 
professionals who develop and maintain the Group’s 
policies and procedures and awareness with Partners  
and contractors in this key area.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions bring increased risk in terms of transaction 
execution and the integration of new personnel and 
activities into the Group’s established base of operations.
All potential acquisitions are subject to a detailed review 
including comprehensive due diligence and planning for 
integration. We have a dedicated acquisitions team who 
work with managers from our existing business and draw on 
the services of advisors when necessary. The performance 
of acquisitions is reported and reviewed by the Board at 
each Board meeting for a period of twelve months after 
acquisition.
People
In order to meet its strategic growth plans the Group 
needs to be able to attract and retain people with the 
right skills and talents. This is supported by eaga’s unique 
co-ownership structure and commitment to Partner 
engagement, reward and development.
IT Systems
The Group is reliant on IT systems for operational delivery and 
efficiency. Potential significant changes to current systems 
are subject to Board approval following consideration 
of detailed project plans. We also have robust business 
continuity plans in place across all of our key business 
systems, which are tested on a regular basis.
Pandemic 
The Group’s operations could be impacted if a significant 
number of our Partners were unable to come to work as 
a result of a pandemic. This risk is mitigated through our 
business continuity planning and processes.
Sub-contractors
The Group is reliant on third party sub-contractors for  
the delivery of some of our contractual commitments.  
We monitor the financial stability and operational delivery  
of all significant sub-contractors to manage the risk of  
sub-contract delivery or failure.
Ian McLeod, Group Finance Director
1 September 2009
25 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Joseph (Drew) Johnson, 
Chief Executive Officer (age 50)
Drew joined eaga in 1991 having previously worked for  
British Coal in supply chain management and logistics.  
He was appointed to eaga’s Board in 1999. Drew has had 
responsibility for eaga’s commercial strategy, focusing on the 
identification, development and delivery of opportunities for 
both organic and acquisitive growth and from 27 April 2009 
took up the role of CEO upon John Clough’s retirement.
Ian McLeod,
Group Finance Director (age 41)
Ian joined eaga in 2004 and was appointed to the  
Board in 2005. He is responsible for all aspects of financial 
management and reporting. Ian spent fourteen years with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP prior to joining eaga, during 
which time he gained extensive experience in advising 
companies across a broad range of market sectors.
Dave Routledge, 
Organisational Development Director (age 51)
Dave joined eaga in 2002 and was appointed to the  
Board in 2004. He is responsible for strategic organisational 
development, human resources, risk management and 
corporate and Government affairs. Dave previously held 
main board level responsibilities for human resources and 
operations within the pharmaceutical sector.
Board of Directors Executive Directors
Ian 
McLeod
Group Finance Director
Drew 
Johnson
Chief Executive Officer
Board Committees
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Malcolm Simpson (Chair) Tracy Clarke (Chair) Charles Berry (Chair)
Quintin Oliver Malcolm Simpson Quintin Oliver
Tracy Clarke Quintin Oliver Roger Aylard
Roger Aylard Roger Aylard Dave Routledge 
1
   Drew Johnson
 
1
  Dave Routledge stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2009
Dave  
Routledge
Organisational  
Development Director
26 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Charles Berry, 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman (age 57)
Charles was appointed to eaga’s Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman in 2006. He has extensive experience 
in the UK power sector as a former board member of 
ScottishPower plc where he served as UK Chief Executive. 
Charles is a Non-Executive Director of Securities Trust 
of Scotland plc, Impax Environmental Markets plc and 
Chairman of Drax Group plc.
Malcolm Simpson, 
Non-Executive Director (age 67)
Malcolm was appointed to eaga’s Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in 2007, he is a former Finance Director of Greggs plc. 
At Greggs Malcolm oversaw a period of strong growth as the 
company expanded both organically and acquisitively and 
achieved flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
Quintin Oliver, 
Non-Executive Director (age 54)
Quintin was appointed to eaga’s Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in 2004. He lives and works in Belfast, Northern Ireland, 
leading Stratagem – the first dedicated lobbying and public 
affairs company to emerge after the Northern Ireland peace 
process following the Good Friday agreement.
Tracy Clarke, 
Non-Executive Director (age 42)
Tracy was appointed to eaga’s Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in 2007. She is currently Group Head of Human 
Resources at Standard Chartered plc and a member of 
its Group Management Committee, having previously 
undertaken a variety of operational and strategic roles for 
the bank. Until 2008, she was also a Non-Executive Director 
of SC First Bank, following Standard Chartered’s acquisition 
of Korea First Bank in 2004.
Roger Aylard, 
Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 
(age 55)
Roger was appointed to eaga’s Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009. 
He retired as Head of UK Investment Banking at Deutsche 
Bank in August 2007 after a career encompassing ten years 
in the oil industry, six years as a research analyst and fifteen 
years in corporate broking and corporate finance. During 
this time he acted as senior advisor to a wide range of 
major UK companies.
Non-Executive Directors 
Malcolm 
Simpson 
Non-Executive Director
Tracy 
Clarke 
Non-Executive Director
Roger 
Aylard
Non-Executive Director 
and Senior  
Independent Director
Charles 
Berry 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman
Quintin 
Oliver 
Non-Executive Director
27 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2009.
Principal Activities and Business Review
The Company and Group continue to provide outsourced services and products that help households and families deal 
with many different aspects of environmental, social, economic and technological change. The Group also provides 
installation services including heating, insulation and renewable technologies, together with the development and 
fulfilment of carbon saving measures. In doing so, it serves a broad customer base which includes central and local 
Government, utility companies, private sector organisations and the BBC.
Details of the Group’s activities and a review of the business are set out in the Chairman’s Statement, Operational Review 
and Financial Review on pages 2 to 25.
The Financial Review includes:
• 	 d e t ails 	 of 	 the 	 K e y 	 Per f ormanc e 	 Indicat ors 	 use d 	 b y 	 the 	 D ir e ct ors 	 t o 	 assist 	 in 	 the 	 mana g em en t 	 of 	 the 	 busin ess 	 b eing 	
revenue, EBITA and EBITA margin; and
• 	 a 	 d escrip tion 	 of 	 the 	 principal 	 risk s 	 and 	 unc er t ain ti es 	 f acing 	 the 	 Gr oup .
Financial Results and Dividends
The Group’s results are shown in the Group Income Statement on page 46. The Directors are recommending the payment 
of a final dividend of 2.4p per Ordinary Share to be paid on 13 November 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 16 October 2009 which, together with the interim dividend of 1.1p per Ordinary Share paid on 23 March 2009, 
results in a total dividend for the year of 3.5p per Ordinary Share (2008: 3.0p).
Interests in Shares
During the year ended 31 May 2009 the Company had a general right to purchase all or any of its own shares subject  
to compliance with its articles of association and the specific right conferred by the resolution passed at the AGM of  
16 October 2008 to acquire up to 10% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Share Capital.
The Company is aware of or has been notified under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the 
following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares:
    Number of Percentage of
    Direct Shares Direct Shares (%)
eaga Partnership Trustee Two Ltd    46,509,368 18.5
eaga Partnership Trustee Ltd     46,496,183 18.5
Brewin Dolphin Ltd     11,583,280 4.6
Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd    9,956,110 4.0
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd     8,002,741 3.2
All of the above shares are held directly. The Company has not been notified of any indirect holdings.
Directors
Details of the Directors who currently hold office are listed on pages 26 and 27 . During the year Roger Aylard was appointed  
as a Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009 and John Clough MBE retired on 27 April 2009.
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, one third (or the nearest whole number below one third)  
of the Directors are required to retire at each annual general meeting (‘AGM’), together with Directors appointed by the  
Board since the date of any notice convening the previous AGM. In addition, under the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 (‘the Code’), Directors are required to submit themselves 
for re-election by shareholders every three years and Non-Executive Directors who have served more than nine years are 
subject to annual re-election. Having been appointed since the publication of the notice for the last AGM, Roger Aylard 
will retire from the Board and, being eligible, will offer himself for election. Drew Johnson and Malcolm Simpson will retire by 
rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
The termination provisions in respect of the Executive Directors’ contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
33 to 38.
Report of the Directors
28 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company as at 31 May 2009 and the date of signature of 
this report are:
     Number of Shares
Roger Aylard     50,000
Charles Berry     55,249
Tracy Clarke     Nil
Drew Johnson     5,082,472
Ian McLeod     3,982,472
Quintin Oliver     24,861
Dave Routledge     5,157,472
Malcolm Simpson     88,149
Corporate Social Responsibility
Information relating to the Company’s activities in this area is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on 
page 44.
Directors’ Indemnities
The Directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity provisions contained in the Company’s Articles of 
Association, which were in force throughout the financial year and remain in force as at the date of signing this report.
Donations
During the year the Company and the Group made charitable donations of £245,000 (2008: £135,000) principally to the 
independent eaga Charitable Trust and the eaga Community Fund managed for eaga by the Community Foundation.
No political donations were made in the year to 31 May 2009 (2008: £Nil).
Payment of Suppliers
The Group’s UK operating companies follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code. This Code requires the Company to agree the 
terms of payment with suppliers, to ensure suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by them. The Group’s creditor 
days outstanding as at 31 May 2009 were 36 days (2008: 34 days).
Employment Issues and Policies
The Group regards its engagement with its Partners as a vital constituent of continued success. The Company has a unique 
structure for a UK listed company. Approximately 37% of the Company’s shares are owned by the two eaga Partnership Trust 
companies (‘ePT’) which, together with other assets are held in trust for a beneficial class which includes current Partners.
As the Company’s largest shareholder, ePT is wholly independent, but the interrelationship between the Company, ePT 
and the eaga Partners’ Council (‘ePC’) is a key element in ensuring the values-driven nature of the business is retained 
and preserved. ePC is comprised of elected Partners, meets regularly with the Board and acts as the representative body 
of the Partners to make enquiries, raise issues and make representations to the Board on behalf of the Partners.
ePT invests in a range of initiatives and programmes that are designed solely to promote the welfare of Partners and to 
provide direct benefit to Partners as a result of their employment with eaga. During the year such benefits included the 
acquisition of a number of holiday homes for Partners’ use and the funding of the acquisition of shares for an all Partner 
Share Incentive Plan established by the Company, financed through a waiver of dividends by ePT. Such waiver is wholly 
discretionary and ePT’s independent board of directors have sole responsibility for such decisions in this regard.
The Group has a range of initiatives to enhance and develop Partner engagement and participation:
• 	 ou r 	 v a l u es 	 a n d 	 c u l t u r e 	 a r e 	 d r i v e n 	 a n d 	 s u p p o r t e d 	 b y 	 t h e 	 ‘ e a g a 	 C a r es ’ 	 p r o g r a m m e , 	 w h i c h 	 u n d e r p i ns 	 ou r 	 p e r f o r m a n c e	 
and development process and enables us to embed our value set throughout Partner behaviours;
•	 the 	 annual 	 P ar tner 	 Eng a g em en t 	 Sur v e y 	 ( ‘ PE S ’ ) 	 is 	 a 	 vit al 	 t ool 	 in 	 collating 	 f e e db ack 	 fr om 	 P ar tn ers . 	 The 	 r es ults 	 of 	 the 	 PE S 	 ar e 	
shared with all Partners and ‘improvement action plans’ formulated with team leaders;
•	 e P C 	 is 	 at 	 the 	 c en tr e 	 of 	 all 	 issu es 	 in v olving 	 the 	 P ar tners 	 and 	 has 	 b e en 	 instrum en t al 	 in 	 the 	 d e v elopm en t 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup ’ s 	
‘people policies’. The divisional ePC representative also sits on the relevant information and consultative committee 
(referred to as Partners’ Voice) which are active in each division and ensure a cohesive information flow;
•	 our 	 in t ernal 	 pub lication 	 ‘ Swit che d 	 O n ’ 	 g o es 	 fr om 	 str ength 	 t o 	 str ength 	 and 	 con tinu es 	 t o 	 at tr act 	 e x t ernal 	 critical 	 accl aim .	
It is circulated to all Partners at their home address and aims to keep Partners and their families up to date with latest 
developments and key areas of focus across the business. The magazine has a strong interactive feel which encourages 
Partners to participate and provide content of their own;
29 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 • 	 ‘ e a g a 	 S t a r s ’ , 	 t h e 	 G r ou p ’ s 	 P a r t n e r 	 r e c o g n i t i o n 	 s c h e m e 	 se e k s 	 t o 	 i d e n t i f y 	 a n d 	 r e w a r d 	 t h o se 	 P a r t n e r s 	 w h o 	 d e m o nst r a t e 	 r o l e	
model behaviour in keeping with the eaga values and go beyond what would ordinarily be expected of them in a work 
situation; and
•	 our 	 C orpor at e 	 S o cial 	 Responsib ilit y 	 ( ‘ C S R ’ ) 	 a g enda 	 also 	 pr o vid es 	 an 	 oppor tunit y 	 f or 	 our 	 P ar tn ers 	 t o 	 par ticipat e 	 on 	 and	
contribute to a diverse range of innovative projects. Further details of our CSR activities can be found on page 44.
Equal Opportunities
All of the Group’s employment decisions are based on objective criteria, sound human resources principles and are 
demonstrably free from bias. The Group’s ‘Equal Opportunities and Dignity at Work’ policy strives to ensure all Partners 
work in an environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, with equality of treatment regardless 
of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion. The Group has a 
willingness to consider appropriate positive action to optimise opportunities for those with disabilities, offering training and 
career development and a range of flexible and home-working arrangements. If Partners become disabled, the Group 
continues employment wherever possible and arranges retraining. The Group is a certified ‘Two Ticks’ employer. Work/life 
balance is also important to the Group as is demonstrated by enhanced policies for maternity, paternity and adoption.
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38 will (as required by Section 420 of Companies Act 2006) be put to the 
shareholders for approval at the AGM.
Power to Allot Shares and Authority for the Company to Purchase Its Own Shares
The Directors propose to renew the general authority of the Company to make market purchases of its own shares to a total 
of 25m Ordinary Shares (representing approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital of the Company) and within 
the price constraints set out in the special resolution to be proposed at the AGM.
Articles of Association
The latest version of the Company’s articles of association was adopted by special resolution on 28 January 2009. It is 
intended to further amend the articles of association to reflect the final round of changes to be implemented by the 
Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009. Details of these proposed changes are contained in the Appendix to the Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting. 
Financial Instruments
A summary of the Group’s treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to 
associated risks, is included in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 25.
Additional Information for Shareholders
Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law, the following description provides the required 
information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
Share Capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each.
Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the articles of association and to any special rights 
or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in the Company (of which there are none), the holders of the 
Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for every Ordinary Share held. No member shall be entitled to vote at  
any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or other sum then payable in respect of  
that share remains unpaid. Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 14 October 2009 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be 
paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim 
dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, 
justifies its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of a special resolution of the Company and any other 
authority required by the Statutes (as defined in the articles of association):
•	 divid e 	 among 	 the 	 m emb ers 	 in 	 sp e ci e 	 the 	 whol e 	 or 	 an y 	 par t 	 of 	 the 	 asse ts 	 of 	 the 	 C ompan y; 	 or
• 	 v est 	 t h e 	 w h o l e 	 o r 	 a n y 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 a s se t s 	 i n 	 t r u st e es 	 u p o n 	 s u c h 	 t r u st s 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 b e n e f i t 	 o f 	 m e m b e r s 	 a s 	 t h e 	 l i q u i d a t o r , 	 w i t h 	 t h e	
like authority, shall think fit.
Report of the Directors
Continued
30 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Transfer of Shares
Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of their certified shares by an instrument of 
transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve. The Board may, in its absolute discretion, 
decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certified share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company 
has a lien. The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certified share unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) left 
at the office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration; and (ii) accompanied by the certificate 
for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence (if any) as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title 
of the intending transferor or right to transfer the shares. The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be 
held in uncertified form and, subject to the articles of association, title to uncertified shares to be transferred by means of 
a relevant system and may revoke any such permission. Registration of a transfer of an uncertified share may be refused 
where permitted by the Statutes.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number. Directors may be appointed by the Company  
by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual 
General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders. The Board may from time to time appoint one or 
more Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period (subject to the Companies Act 2006) and on such 
terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any Director in office who (a) has been appointed by the Board since 
the previous Annual General Meeting or (b) at the start of business on the date which is thirty clear days prior to the date of 
the notice convening the Annual General Meeting had held office for more than thirty months since he or she was elected 
or last re-elected shall in either case retire from office (but shall be eligible for election or re-election by the shareholders). 
The Company may by special resolution (or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given) remove and 
the Board by unanimous decision may remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office. The office of Director 
shall be vacated if: (i) he or she resigns; (ii) he or she is or may be suffering from a mental disorder; (iii) he or she is absent 
without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the 
office is vacated; (iv) he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally; (v) he or she is 
prohibited by law from being a Director; or (vi) he or she is removed from office pursuant to the articles of association.
Powers of the Directors
The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the 
provisions of the Company’s memorandum of association, the articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any 
ordinary resolution of the Company.
Auditors
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and a resolution 
reappointing them as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
•	 so 	 f ar 	 as 	 the 	 D ir e ct or 	 is 	 aw ar e , 	 ther e 	 is 	 no 	 r el e v an t 	 au dit 	 inf ormation 	 of 	 which 	 the 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 au dit ors 	 ar e 	 unaw ar e ; 	 and
•	 e ach 	 D ir e ct or 	 has 	 t ak en 	 all 	 the 	 st eps 	 that 	 the y 	 ough t 	 t o 	 hav e 	 t ak en 	 as 	 a 	 D ir e ct or 	 in 	 or d er 	 t o 	 mak e 	 themselv es 	 aw ar e 	 of 	 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies  
Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board
Christopher Judd, Company Secretary
1 September 2009
31 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 sel e ct 	 suit ab l e 	 accoun ting 	 polici es 	 and 	 then 	 apply 	 them 	 consist en tly;
•	 mak e 	 j udg em en ts 	 and 	 accoun ting 	 estimat es 	 that 	 ar e 	 r e asonab l e 	 and 	 pru d en t ;
•	 st at e 	 whe ther 	 I F R Ss 	 as 	 a dop t e d 	 b y 	 the 	 E ur op e an 	 Union 	 and 	 applicab l e 	 UK 	 A ccoun ting 	 S t andar ds 	 hav e 	 b e en 	 f ollo w e d ,	
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company financial statements 
respectively; and
•	 pr epar e 	 the 	 financial 	 st at em en ts 	 on 	 the 	 g oing 	 conc ern 	 b asis 	 unl ess 	 it 	 is 	 inappr opriat e 	 t o 	 pr es um e 	 that 	 the 	 C ompan y 	 will 	
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 26 and 27 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 st at em en ts , 	 which 	 hav e 	 b e en 	 pr epar e d 	 in 	 accor danc e 	 with 	 I F R Ss 	 as 	 a dop t e d 	 b y 	 the 	 E U , 	 giv e 	 a 	 tru e	
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
•	 the 	 Oper ational 	 Re view 	 on 	 pages 	 1 4 	 t o 	 1 9 	 and 	 F inancial 	 Re view 	 on 	 page s 	 2 2 	 t o 	 2 5 	 include 	 a 	 f air 	 r e view 	 o f 	 the 	 de v elopmen t	
and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
32 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 to SI 2008/410 and has been approved 
by the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
The Remuneration Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors: Quintin Oliver, Malcolm Simpson, 
Roger Aylard and is chaired by Tracy Clarke. The Remuneration Committee is governed by formal terms of reference which 
are reviewed annually and available from the Company Secretary upon request. The Remuneration Committee continues 
to focus on ensuring that in designing and implementing the Company’s executive compensation strategy:
•	 the 	 in t er ests 	 of 	 shar ehol d ers 	 ar e 	 pr o t e ct e d 	 and 	 enhanc e d ;
•	 the 	 uniqu e 	 e thics 	 and 	 char act eristics 	 of 	 e a g a, 	 d e v elop e d 	 thr ou gh 	 its 	 o wn ership 	 structur e 	 ar e 	 main t ain e d ; 	 and
•	 the 	 vi ew 	 of 	 all 	 shar ehol d ers , 	 cust om ers , 	 P ar tners 	 and 	 o ther 	 st ak ehold ers 	 in 	 the 	 busin ess 	 r e c eiv e 	 appr opriat e 	 at t en tion .
The Company has a strong desire to be responsible in its approach to executive pay whilst ensuring that the remuneration 
policies are sufficient to attract and retain appropriately qualified and highly motivated Executive Directors. 
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for approving and monitoring the specific remuneration packages and terms and conditions  
of employment of the Company’s Executive Directors and certain other senior managers. The Committee, in consultation with 
the Chief Executive, is responsible for determining which senior managers are included for this purpose, such determination 
to be approved by the Board as a whole. The Committee is also responsible for agreeing eaga’s overall remuneration policy 
and has oversight of the governance process for remuneration generally.
The Committee has delegated responsibility for setting the Chairman’s remuneration. Non-Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is set by the Executive Directors in consultation with the Chairman.
The Committee is responsible for the appointment of independent external advisors to give advice on all matters relating  
to executive remuneration. During the year the Committee has taken advice from Hewitt Associates Limited trading as 
Hewitt New Bridge Street and KPMG LLP including advice on employee and management share incentive plans and 
Directors’ Remuneration packages. The Company had no other relationship with either firm.
There were six meetings held of the Committee in the year to 31 May 2009.
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that the total remuneration package for the Executive Directors is soundly 
based, internally consistent, externally competitive and fully aligned with the interests of shareholders for both the short  
and long-term. No Director takes any part in the decision regarding their personal remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed a balanced executive remuneration framework, which includes typical market 
incentives. The Committee considers that this framework is appropriate for the purpose of recruiting and motivating 
executive talent and comprises:
•	 b asic 	 sal ar y;
•	 annual 	 cash 	 b onus ;
•	 long - t erm 	 inc en tiv e 	 schem es 	 ( M ana g em en t 	 Inc en tiv e 	 Plan 	 and 	 S har e 	 I nc en tiv e 	 Plan ) ;
•	 r e tir em en t 	 b en efits ; 	 and
•	 o ther 	 b enefits .
Remuneration Report
33 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Basic Salary
The current basic annual salaries paid to the Executive Directors are as follows:
Drew Johnson     £370,000
Ian McLeod     £250,000
Dave Routledge     £250,000
Up to his date of resignation, John Clough’s basic annual salary was £370,000. Upon his retirement John Clough did not 
receive any further payments or compensation from the Company.
The Executive Director basic salaries are reviewed annually using external benchmarking against comparable companies 
to ensure that they remain externally competitive, taking into account the requirements of the roles, the performance of 
individuals, the size of the Company and its complexity.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Executive Directors’ base salary during December 2008 using third party 
independent consultants and increases were proposed. Having last received a salary increase in April 2007, base salaries for 
Executive Directors had fallen behind market median by some margin and an 8% increase was applied to bring the Directors 
more in line with that median based pay and also reflect the growing size and complexity at eaga. Upon appointment as 
Chief Executive Officer, Drew Johnson received an increase to base salary to reflect his new responsibilities.
Annual Cash Bonus
The Remuneration Committee has approved an annual cash bonus for Executive Directors up to a maximum of 100% of 
annual basic salary for the delivery of exceptional performance against a balanced scorecard of results. Certain senior 
managers, as agreed with the Board, have a maximum opportunity of up to 50% of annual basic salary upon also delivering 
exceptional performance. The annual cash bonus scheme has been implemented in 2009 for certain senior managers in the 
business. The bonus to be awarded depends on the achievement of respective Divisional and Group EBITA targets together 
with a number of individual personal objectives including leadership, health and safety and risk management.
The incumbent Executive Directors have, to date, elected not to participate in the annual bonus plan. However, in light of  
a refreshed vision, the growth of the business and the challenge ahead, the Executive Directors have elected to participate 
for the year commencing 1 June 2009. It is expected that any newly appointed Executive Directors would also participate  
in the annual cash bonus plan at the appropriate levels as approved by the Committee. 
Long-term Incentive Schemes 
Management Incentive Plan (‘MIP’)
The MIP allows the granting of performance shares to Executive Directors and certain senior managers. Under normal 
circumstances the maximum market value of shares over which individual awards could be made is 100% of salary.  
In exceptional circumstances the Committee has the authority to award up to 200% of salary.
The Executive Directors have elected not to participate in the MIP believing that their personal shareholdings align their 
long-term interests with those of other shareholders. However, it is expected that any newly appointed Executive Director 
would participate in the MIP.
Performance conditions have been reviewed during the period and the Remuneration Committee are satisfied that these 
continue to be appropriate.
Remuneration Report
Continued
34 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 In total 1,366,245 nil cost options were awarded to certain senior managers in October 2008 and will vest subject to the 
performance conditions set out below.
The vesting of any awards made under the MIP will be subject to the achievement of Group performance targets intended to 
enhance shareholder value. Half of any award will vest depending on TSR (Total Shareholder Return, being the change in share 
price plus dividends paid) performance relative to the FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trusts and half of the awards against 
eps performance. The Committee believes the use of these targets will improve the financial performance of the Company 
and deliver value to shareholders. The performance period will be three years beginning at the start of the financial year during 
which awards are made. The start and end points used to establish the vesting of awards will be based on the average of the 
quoted daily closing share price in the three months preceding the beginning and end of the relevant performance period. In 
normal circumstances, no awards will become vested before the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The vesting under each part of the award will be as follows:
TSR performance relative to the FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trusts Percentage of award
Below median 0%
At median 16
2
⁄3%
Between median and upper quartile 16
2
⁄3% to 50% on a straight line
Upper quartile 50%
eps Performance – compound annual increase Percentage of award
Below 10% 0%
At 10% 10%
10% to 20% 10% to 50% straight line
Above 20% 50%
As required by the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008, the Company reports performance 
measured by TSR against an appropriate market index. The Committee has determined that the FTSE mid 250 without 
Investment Trusts is the appropriate market index. This comparison of TSR performance is illustrated in the following graph:
Total Shareholder Return
120
100
Percentage
80
60
40
20
7 June 2007 31 May 2008 31 May 2009
eaga plc
FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trusts
0
Source: Datastream
35 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The performance of the Group in terms of business growth in revenues and EBITA is further illustrated below:
Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’)
The Company operates an HMRC approved SIP for the benefit of all qualifying Partners, including the Executive Directors. 
All qualifying Partners are beneficiaries of the eaga Partnership Trust (‘ePT’). ePT is the vehicle in which shares in the 
Company and other assets are held on trust for the benefit of all qualifying Partners.
The activities of ePT are subject to a constitution and trust deed and are independent to the Company. ePT’s affairs are 
managed by a board of trustees including: independent trustees, Partners elected by the eaga Partners’ Council and  
one trustee nominated by the eaga Board Nomination Committee.
ePT waived its interim and final dividends relating to the year to 31 May 2008, amounting to £2.8m. These funds have been 
used by the Company to finance the first ‘free share’ award under the SIP. On 31 October 2008, the Company awarded 
2,269,903 nil cost shares to Partners in the business. The accounting charge required for the nil cost shares issued to Partners 
in the year is £1.6m and further set out in note 7 of the financial statements. To fund the award of these shares, the Group via a 
SIP Trustee, purchased 2.2m Ordinary Shares on 27 October 2008 at a cost of £2.7m. Until these shares vest with the individual, 
they are shown as own shares held in trust, as shown in note 28 to the financial statements. The SIP has been well received 
by Partners with over 90% participation in the SIP. The incumbent Executive Directors declined to participate in the SIP in the 
current year.
The cost of implementing and administering this plan is borne by ePT.
Retirement Benefits
The Executive Directors are members of the Company’s group personal pension plan, a defined contribution scheme, 
under which the Company makes an annual contribution or salary supplement of up to 15% of basic salary. This may be 
supplemented by each member as desired, and as permitted under current pension legislation. Annual bonuses, were 
they to be awarded, would not be pensionable.
Remuneration Report
Continued
800
700
Revenue £m
600
500
400
300
100
200
0
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
5
10
0
Revenue
EBITA
2006 2009 2008 2007
EBITA £m
36 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Other Benefits
Other benefits include fully expensed company car or equivalent cash allowance, permanent health insurance and life 
assurance. The range of benefits and their value are considered to be broadly in line with similar companies in the FTSE  
mid 250.
Directors Letters of Appointment and Contracts of Service
The following table summarises the Board’s current Service Contracts:
    Date of Current Letter of Unexpired 
    Appointment/Contract Term
Non-Executive   
Charles Berry  23 March 2009 28 months
Tracy Clarke  17 September 2007 13 months
Quintin Oliver  29 August 2008 4 months
Malcolm Simpson  19 December 2006 4 months
Roger Aylard  6 March 2009 31 months
Executive   
Drew Johnson  31 May 2006 Rolling 12 months
Ian McLeod  31 May 2006 Rolling 12 months
Dave Routledge  31 May 2006 Rolling 12 months
Non-Executive Fees
Non-Executive Directors’ fees are benchmarked against the FTSE 250 and include base fees with supplemental fees 
dependent upon additional responsibilities such as: Senior Independent Director, Committee Chair or Committee 
members as summarised below:
    Current fees per annum (£’000)
Chairman     82.0
Non-Executive Director     32.1
Supplements:
Senior Independent Director     5.0
Chair Audit Committee     7.5
Chair Remuneration Committee     5.0
Chair Nomination Committee     3.5
Committee Member     1.5
These fees were reviewed in the period using benchmarked data from independent advisors and were increased by 7%. 
Service Contracts
The Executive Directors have rolling contracts which may be terminated by twelve months’ notice in writing on either side. 
In the event of termination of any Executive Director’s service contract the termination payment will be based upon base 
salary plus benefits. As the incumbent Executive Directors have elected not to participate in the MIP or SIP, these elements 
will not be considered for Company liability purposes in the event of early termination. Contracts do not provide additional 
compensation for severance as a result of a change of control. 
The Non-Executive Directors have entered into letters of three year appointment with the Company which may be 
terminated by three months’ notice on either side.
External Appointments
The Company recognises that its senior executives and the Company can benefit from its Executive Directors serving in  
a personal capacity as Non-Executive Directors of other companies. Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors 
are permitted to hold one external Non-Executive directorship and retain any fees received for holding such a position. 
Such appointments will only be approved if there is no potential conflict of interest and the time commitments do not 
interfere with the Executive Director’s duties and performance.
Currently Dave Routledge holds a Non-Executive appointment on a pro-bono basis for the Employee Ownership 
Association, a not for profit organisation dedicated to the development and expansion of employee ownership.
37 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ Emoluments
Year ended 31 May 2009
        Pension Pension
      Total Total contributions contributions
   Salary Fees Benefits 2009 2008 2009 2008
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive        
John Clough MBE* 367
1
 – 13 380 466 – –
Drew Johnson 334
1
 – 15 349 349 – –
Ian McLeod 273
1
 – 13 286 322 – –
Dave Routledge 241 – 14 255 291 36 35
        
Non-Executive        
Roger Aylard** – 7 – 7 – – –
Charles Berry – 83 – 83 80 – –
Tracy Clarke – 41 – 41 20 – –
Quintin Oliver – 36 – 36 35 – –
Malcolm Simpson – 45 – 45 39 – –
Richard Burns*** – – – – 47 – –
Michael Roberts*** – – – – 25 – –
   1,215 212 55 1,482 1,674 36 35
         
* Up to date of retirement on 27 April 2009         
** From date of appointment on 1 April 2009        
*** Retired in the prior year        
1
 Includes amounts relating to pension benefits paid as salary     
Long-term Incentive Schemes and Share Options
The Executive Directors have not participated in the MIP or SIP. At 31 May 2009 the Directors have no other options under  
any of the Group’s share plans. The Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Report of the Directors.
Tracy Clarke, Chair, Remuneration Committee
1 September 2009
Remuneration Report
Continued
38 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Board continues in its determination to aim for the highest standards of corporate governance and professional 
integrity. In accordance with the Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company is required to state whether it has complied 
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in June 2006 (‘the Code’) and where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation. The 
Company is also required to set out how it has applied the principles set out within the Code.
The following paragraphs together with the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38 provide details of how the Company 
applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
Operation of the Board
The primary roles of the Board are to determine overall strategy and business objectives, ensure structure and capital are 
sufficient to meet business needs, maintain and monitor effective systems for financial reporting, internal control, contracts 
and communication, regularly review board membership, consider remuneration issues (upon recommendation from the 
Remuneration Committee), to delegate authority as appropriate, ensure standards of corporate governance are maintained 
and attend to other Company policies. All of these functions are recorded in a Schedule of Matters reserved to the Board 
for its decision/approval. Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group’s affairs. 
A clearly defined organisation structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored. 
The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors. The conduct of 
the Group’s individual businesses is delegated to the divisional management teams. These teams are accountable for the 
conduct and performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy. They have full authority to act subject to 
the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
Throughout the year the Board was again led by its Chairman, Charles Berry, who also continues to chair the Nomination 
Committee. There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 
which has been agreed by the Board and set out in writing. Malcolm Simpson fulfilled the role of Senior Independent 
Director (‘SID’) until this position passed to Roger Aylard on his appointment to the Board.
All Directors have disclosed any additional appointments or other business interests outside of the Company. In particular, 
the Board has considered the relationship between the Company and Stratagem (NI) Limited, in which Quintin Oliver 
is a Director. The Board has determined that the business relationship between the two organisations does not impugn 
Quintin’s independence. The Board also satisfied itself that the Chairman was independent from the Company at the time 
of his appointment and the other Non-Executive Directors have at all times been independent of management and free 
from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board operates three committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, to which it has delegated certain specific 
responsibilities and each of which operate within Board approved terms of reference. The terms of reference of each 
committee can be viewed on the Company’s website.
Audit Committee
During the year the Audit Committee was chaired by Malcolm Simpson, who was supported by two independent Non-
Executive Directors, Quintin Oliver and Tracy Clarke. Roger Aylard also joined the Audit Committee upon his appointment 
to the Board. The Committee has at all times consisted and will continue in the future to consist of not less than three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom will have relevant financial experience. Malcolm Simpson, the Chair of 
the Committee and former Finance Director of Greggs plc has been assessed as having this relevant financial experience.  
A quorum is two members and the Committee has met and shall continue to meet a minimum of four times each year.
Corporate Governance
39 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Committee’s main functions are to endeavour:
•	 t o 	 ensur e 	 that 	 the 	 accoun ting 	 and 	 financial 	 polici es 	 of 	 the 	 C ompan y 	 ar e 	 pr op er 	 and 	 ef f e ctiv e ;
•	 t o 	 monit or 	 the 	 in t e grit y 	 and 	 cl arit y 	 of 	 the 	 financial 	 st at em en ts 	 and 	 inf ormation 	 pub lishe d 	 b y 	 the 	 C ompan y;
•	 t o 	 r e vi ew 	 the 	 ef f e ctiv en ess 	 of 	 the 	 Compan y ’ s 	 in t ernal 	 con tr ols 	 and 	 appr oach 	 t o 	 risk 	 mana g em en t ;
•	 t o 	 monit or 	 the 	 ef f e ctiv en ess 	 of 	 the 	 in t ernal 	 audit 	 function ;
•	 t o 	 assess 	 the 	 ind ep end enc e 	 and 	 ob je ctivit y 	 of 	 the 	 e x t ernal 	 au dit ors 	 and 	 t o 	 se t 	 polic y 	 r e gar ding 	 the 	 pr o vision 	 of 	 non - audit 	
ser vic es 	 b y 	 the 	 e x t ernal 	 audit ors ; 	 and
•	 t o 	 mak e 	 r e comm endations 	 t o 	 the 	 B oar d 	 in 	 r el ation 	 t o 	 appoin tm en t 	 of 	 e x t ernal 	 au dit ors .
The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual and interim financial statements issued to shareholders, 
compliance with financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee determines the scope of the external audit in discussion with the external auditors, agrees their fees in 
respect of the audit and makes a recommendation to the Board as to whether the auditors should be reappointed.
The Committee has a policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors which provides that the 
total fees payable for such work in any financial year should not normally be more than 80% of the total fees payable in 
respect of audit and compliance services. 
The Committee normally meets the Finance Director and the internal audit team with the Chief Executive in attendance 
outside of scheduled Committee meetings. Time is also set aside annually for discussion between the Committee, the 
external auditors and the internal audit team in the absence of all Executive Directors. The Committee, in common with  
all of the Non-Executive Directors personally, has the authority to engage and take advice from independent external 
advisors if it sees fit at the Company’s expense. The Committee also has access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Tracy Clarke, who was supported by two independent Non-
Executive Directors, Quintin Oliver and Malcolm Simpson. Roger Aylard also joined the Committee upon his appointment 
to the Board. All are independent Non-Executive Directors. The Committee must consist and has at all times consisted of 
not less than three members who are independent Non-Executive Directors. A quorum is two members and the Committee 
meets a minimum of twice each year. There were six meetings during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy 
(including benefits, pension arrangements and termination payments) relating to the Chairman, Executive Directors and 
senior 	 mana g em en t 	 of 	 the 	 Compan y; 	 ensuring 	 the 	 mark e t 	 compatib ilit y 	 and 	 structur es 	 n e c essar y 	 t o 	 ens ur e 	 appr opriat e	
levels of remuneration and incentive.
The full Remuneration Committee Report can be found on pages 33 to 38.
Nomination Committee
During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by Charles Berry. Additional members were John Clough (until  
his retirement), Drew Johnson (on his appointment as CEO), Dave Routledge and Quintin Oliver. Malcolm Simpson sat as  
a member until Roger Aylard became a member of the Committee on appointment to the Board. Dave Routledge stepped 
down from the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2009. During the year the Committee consisted of five members, three 
of whom were Independent Non-Executive Members (including the Chairman). The Committee currently consists of four 
members, being the Chairman, one Executive Director and two Independent Non-Executive Directors. A quorum is three 
members two of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors. The Committee meets a minimum of once each 
year. There were seven meetings during the year.
The Committee’s role is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and to support and assist 
the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able  
to fulfil the responsibilities of Directors.
Corporate Governance
Continued
40 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Committee’s responsibilities include:
•	 r e vi ewing 	 the 	 structur e , 	 siz e 	 and 	 composition 	 of 	 the 	 B oar d 	 t og e ther 	 with 	 assessing 	 the 	 skills , 	 kno wl e dg e , 	 e xp er tise 	 and 	
div e r s it y 	 o f 	 i ndiv i du a l 	 D ir e c t o r s ;
•	 est ab lishing 	 pr o c esses 	 f or 	 the 	 r e vi ew 	 of 	 the 	 p er f ormanc e 	 of 	 individu al 	 D ir e ct ors , 	 B oar d 	 C ommit t e es 	 and 	 the 	 B oar d 	 as 	 a 	
whol e ;
•	 est ab lishing 	 pr o c esses 	 f or 	 the 	 id en ti fication 	 of 	 suit ab l e 	 candidat es 	 f or 	 appoin tm en t 	 t o 	 the 	 B oar d ;
•	 pr eparing 	 a 	 d escrip tion 	 of 	 the 	 r ol e 	 and 	 capab iliti es 	 r e quir e d 	 f or 	 a 	 par ticular 	 B oar d 	 appoin tm en t ;
•	 giving 	 full 	 consid er ation 	 t o 	 succ ession 	 pl anning 	 f or 	 the 	 B oar d ; 	 and
•	 r e vi ewing 	 the 	 p er f ormanc e 	 of 	 an y 	 D ir e ct or 	 r e tiring 	 b y 	 r o t ation 	 who 	 is 	 planning 	 t o 	 st and 	 f or 	 r e - el e ction .
The Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection 
by prior arrangement during normal business hours.
Performance Evaluation
Having undergone an external performance evaluation process which was undertaken by the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators in the previous financial year and acted upon the recommendations, the Board decided 
to undertake an internal evaluation process which has been completed. The evaluation considered the main Board, each 
sub-committee and the individual Directors and concluded that the Board and sub-committees were operating and 
performing effectively.
Relationship with Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective investor relations and communication programme 
as part of its ongoing relationship with the Company’s shareholders. The Company maintains a regular dialogue with 
institutional investors and broker analysts, providing them with such information on the Company’s progress and future 
plans as is permitted under the guidelines of the Listing Rules. In particular, twice a year, following announcement of  
the interim and full-year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director where  
they have the opportunity to raise any questions as appropriate.
The Company’s main institutional shareholders have been advised that in line with the provisions of the Code, the SID  
and the other Non-Executive Directors may attend those briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.  
The Chairman is briefed periodically on investors’ perceptions and such issues are discussed in the context of regular  
Board meetings.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop their understanding of the Company and ask questions 
of the Board on matters put to the meeting including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial Reporting
The financial position of the Company and its Group companies has been presented in a number of ways during the year 
to ensure shareholders and potential shareholders can make a balanced assessment of the Company. This has included 
and will continue to include:
• 	 I n t er im 	 M a n a g em en t 	 S t at em en t s ;
•	 H alf 	 y e arly 	 Repor t 	 and 	 A ccoun ts ; 	 and
•	 Announc em en ts 	 r e gar ding 	 si gni fican t 	 d e v elopm en ts 	 which 	 may 	 a f f e ct 	 the 	 shar e 	 pric e .
Going Concern
The Directors confirm that after having reviewed the Group’s budget and projected cash flows they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and its Group companies have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
41 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Attendance at Meetings
The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year:
  Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
No. of meetings held  8 4 6 7
Meetings attended
Roger Aylard*  2 (of 2) 1 (of 1) 1 (of 1) 2 (of 2)
Charles Berry  8 – – 7
Tracy Clarke  8 4 6 –
John Clough MBE**  4 (of 7) – – 3(of 6)
Drew Johnson  8 – – 1 (of 1)
Ian McLeod  8 – – –
Dave Routledge  7 – – 7
Quintin Oliver  7 3 5 5
Malcolm Simpson  7 4 6 6 (of 6)
* Appointed 1 April 2009
** Retired 27 April 2009
Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management. The matters contained 
within the Matters Reserved to the Board ensure that the Directors control all significant strategic, financial and organisational 
issues. Dave Routledge is the designated Executive Director with responsibility for health, safety, environment and security. 
He regularly reports to the Board upon such issues. Appropriate levels of insurance were in place during the year to cover 
Directors’ actions or omissions.
Internal Control
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code relating to internal controls, as required 
by the UK Listing Authority. It has implemented the procedures necessary to comply and report in line with the Turnbull 
Guidance published in October 2005 on internal control.
The Board is responsible for implementing and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control. The system 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot therefore provide 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The established internal control framework is continually reviewed 
(and updated as appropriate) to take into account the changing nature of the Group’s business. The system has been in 
place during the year and contains the following key elements:
• 	 T h e 	 G r o u p 	 h a s 	 a 	 d e d i c a t e d 	 r i s k 	 m a n a g e m e n t 	 t e a m 	 a n d 	 a 	 R i s k 	 R e v i e w 	 B o a r d 	 ( ‘R R B ’ ) 	 w h i c h 	 c o m p r i s e s 	 D a v e 	 R o u t l e d g e , 	 t h e	
Group Operating Board and the Director of Health and Safety, Environment and Quality. The RRB monitors and evaluates 
the risk registers compiled by each business area within the Group. The major risks facing the business together with any 
mitigating action proposed and whether the action has been effective is reviewed by the RRB and presented to the full 
Board at each Board Meeting. The RRB reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis regarding the effectiveness of 
the risk identification process and of the action plans for the mitigation of such identified risks. The Executive Directors also 
undertake a formal annual assessment of the risks facing the Group.
•	 The 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 an 	 est ab lishe d 	 in t e gr ation 	 pr o c ess 	 t o 	 ens ur e 	 the 	 risk 	 mana g em en t 	 pr oc esses 	 ar e 	 in tr oduc e d 	 t o 	 an y 	 
newly acquired business from acquisition with a plan to fully implement those systems as soon as reasonably practicable 
after acquisition.
•	 The 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 a 	 cl e arly 	 id en ti fi e d 	 or g anisational 	 structur e 	 with 	 d efin e d 	 r epor ting 	 lin es , 	 duti es 	 and 	 accoun t ab ilit y . 	 
There are defined authorisation limits for individual managers, with transactions being approved at the appropriate  
level of authority. All parts of the business are required to comply with the policies and procedures set out in the  
Group’s finance manual.
Corporate Governance
Continued
42 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 •	 F inancial 	 f or e casts 	 ar e 	 pr epar e d 	 b y 	 the 	 O p er ating 	 B oar d 	 and 	 appr o v e d 	 b y 	 the 	 B oar d 	 on 	 an 	 annu al 	 b asis . 	 O p er ational 	
management have a monthly accountability review with the Executive Directors to identify any variances between 
forecast and actual results and to agree any necessary corrective or mitigating action. Financial results and cash flows, 
including a comparison against forecast are reported to the Board at each Board meeting and forecasts are updated 
quarterly throughout the financial year.
•	 Appr opriat e 	 tr e asur y 	 polici es 	 ar e 	 in 	 pl ac e .
•	 The 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 a 	 f ormal 	 ‘ whistl eb lo wing’ 	 polic y 	 f or 	 P ar tn ers 	 who 	 wish 	 t o 	 r aise 	 an y 	 iss u es 	 of 	 conc ern 	 r elating 	 t o 	 the 	 Gr oup ’ s 	
activities on a confidential basis. All concerns reported are investigated by senior management.
•	 The 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 in t ernal 	 audit 	 t e am 	 r epor ts 	 t o 	 the 	 A udit 	 C ommit t e e 	 and 	 the 	 B oar d 	 at 	 l e ast 	 t wic e 	 a 	 y e ar 	 on 	 the 	 out com es 	 
of work undertaken, which follows an approved internal audit programme. The role of the Audit Committee is detailed 
earlier in this report.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, in accordance with the 
Combined Code and is satisfied that the Group is compliant. An assessment is made of the financial, operational, 
compliance and risk management controls. No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified in the year.
Compliance with the Code
The Directors consider there has been substantial compliance with the Code throughout the year ended 31 May 2009.  
The main exception is that until the appointment of Roger Aylard on 1 April 2009, there was an equal number of 
independent Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and Executive Directors following the death of Richard 
Burns in May 2008. Roger’s appointment was confirmed after an extensive recruitment process. Until that appointment 
however, the composition of the Board was not in strict compliance with the Code which recommends that at least half  
the Board excluding the Chairman should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
On behalf of the Board
Christopher Judd, Company Secretary
1 September 2009
43 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Social Responsibility – an eaga Priority
eaga’s commitment to social responsibility continues to be at the heart of our business and is driven by our core value:  
to care for our Partners, customers and communities with integrity, respect and enthusiasm.
As a co-owned business, it is extremely important to our Partners that our core business success can fit alongside a clear 
commitment to social and environmental responsibility.
e aga 	 has 	 an 	 in t e gr at e d 	 and 	 holistic 	 appr oach 	 t o 	 so cial 	 r esponsib ilit y; 	 on e 	 which 	 aims 	 t o 	 incorpor at e 	 social 	 r esponsib ilit y 	 
in our overall strategy as well as culture and operations.
Our approach to social responsibility is in the following key areas:
•	Partners – engaging our Partners in our social responsibility work through a range of social and environmental initiatives 
that 	 e ducat e 	 and 	 inf orm, 	 encour a ging 	 par ticipation, 	 d e cision 	 making 	 and 	 o wn ership 	 thr ou ghout 	 the 	 busin ess ;
•	Customers – our diverse and often underrepresented customer base drives us to work with many stakeholders to identify 
oppor tuniti es 	 t o 	 d eliv er 	 all 	 the 	 e x tr a 	 assist anc e 	 w e 	 can 	 t o 	 those 	 most 	 in 	 n e e d ;
•	Communities – supporting the communities in which we live and work with a structured approach to grant-giving through 
our 	 ‘ C ommunit y 	 F und ’ , 	 giving 	 tim e 	 and 	 e xp er tise 	 t o 	 those 	 that 	 n e e d 	 it , 	 inno v ativ e 	 e v en t 	 mana ging 	 and 	 fund 	 r aising ; 	 and
•	Environment – further reducing our impact on the environment by achieving carbon neutral status through our business 
operations during the year 31 May 2009 and delivering an ambitious programme of continuous development to improve 
upon this year on year.
Our Social Responsibility Future
As social responsibility is intrinsically part of our culture, it is natural that we should embrace opportunities at both a grass 
roots level and by contributing to developing policy.
Achieving status as thought leaders in this area of community, social and environmental responsibility and further 
embedding a sustainable approach to business across the Group continues to be our overriding priority.
There are many opportunities to develop and support both organically, through existing links to our core business and 
beliefs, and through new developing initiatives. As such, as eaga continues to grow and diversify, we must establish  
new networks to manage an increasingly diverse and innovative portfolio of social responsibility activity.
Further details regarding social responsibility activity can be found in the Social Responsibility Report 2009.
Corporate Social Responsibility
44 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We have audited the Group financial statements of eaga 
plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 which comprise 
the consolidated income statement, the consolidated 
statement of recognised income and expense, the 
consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash 
flow statement, the Group accounting policies and the 
related notes. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as 
adopted by the European Union.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities on page 32, the Directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the Group financial statements  
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared 
for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Sections 495 and 496 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
ad e quat ely 	 disclose d ; 	 the 	 r e asonab l en ess 	 of 	 si gni fican t 	
a c c ou n t i n g 	 est i m a t es 	 m a d e 	 b y 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ; 	 a n d 	 t h e	
overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
•	 giv e 	 a 	 tru e 	 and 	 f air 	 vi ew 	 of 	 the 	 st at e 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 a f f airs	
as at 31 May 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the 
y e ar 	 then 	 end e d ;
•	 hav e 	 b e en 	 pr op erly 	 pr epar e d 	 in 	 accor danc e 	 with 	 I F R Ss	 
as 	 a dop t e d 	 b y 	 the 	 E ur op e an 	 Union ; 	 and
•	 hav e 	 b e en 	 pr epar e d 	 in 	 accor danc e 	 with 	 the 	 r e quir em en ts	
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Group financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group 
financial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• 	 c e r t a i n 	 d i s c l o s u r es 	 o f 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 s p e c i fi e d 	 b y	
law 	 ar e 	 no t 	 ma d e ; 	 or
•	 w e 	 hav e 	 no t 	 r e c eiv e d 	 all 	 the 	 inf ormation 	 and 	 e xpl anations	
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 st a t e m e n t , 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 4 1 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
c o n c e r n ; 	 a n d	
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 S t a t e m e n t 	 r e l a t i n g	
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other Matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company 
financial statements of eaga plc for the year ended 31 May 
2009 and on the information in the Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited.
Bill MacLeod, Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle Upon Tyne
1 September 2009
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the members of eaga plc
45  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009     Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue   2 738,904 638,960
Cost of sales    (591,946) (518,508)
Gross profit    146,958 120,452
Administrative expenses    (109,475) (92,474) 
EBITA
 1
    47,207 38,044
Amortisation of intangible assets   15 (7,820) (7,417)
ePT-funded charges   7 (1,559) –
Exceptional costs   8 (345) (2,649) 
Operating profit after exceptional items   3 37,483 27,978
Finance income   9 782 1,759
Finance expense   10 (537) (1,372)
Profit before tax    37,728 28,365
Tax expense   11 (10,758) (8,945)
Exceptional tax expense   8 – (1,189)
Profit for the year    26,970 18,231
Profit for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company    26,703 17,945
Minority interests    267 286
      26,970 18,231
Earnings per share (pence)
– basic   13 10.69 7.20
– diluted   13 10.63 7.17
– adjusted diluted
 2   
13 13.38 10.62
1
  EBITA comprises profit on ordinary activities before interest, tax, amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges  
and exceptional costs. 
2
 Adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges, exceptional costs and related tax adjustments.
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 May 2009
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Profit for the year   27 26,970 18,231
Currency translation differences   27 225 68
Total recognised income for the year    27,195 18,299
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company    26,925 18,015
Minority interests    270 284
      27,195 18,299
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 May 2009
46 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009     31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill   14 59,111 57,029
Intangible assets   15 8,054 15,161
Property, plant and equipment   16 13,712 11,633
Deferred tax assets   11 8,109 13,453
      88,986 97,276
Current assets
Inventories   18 12,721 8,568
Trade and other receivables   19 97,530 76,652
Derivative financial instruments   20 566 559
Current tax assets    – 163
Current asset investments   21 8,644 4,938
Cash and cash equivalents   22 31,905 15,322
      151,366 106,202
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables   23 106,338 95,051
Loans and borrowings   24 207 206
Current tax liabilities    2,873 –
      109,418 95,257
Net current assets    41,948 10,945
Non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities   23 474 608
Loans and borrowings   24 416 266
Provisions for other liabilities and charges   25 542 586
      1,432 1,460 
Net assets    129,502 106,761
Equity
Share capital   26 251 251
Retained earnings   27 97,709 73,882
Other reserves   28 30,968 32,266
Total shareholders’ equity    128,928 106,399
Minority interest in equity   27 574 362
Total equity    129,502 106,761
The Group financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 September 2009 and signed on its behalf by
Drew Johnson, Ian McLeod, Directors
The notes on pages 49 to 78 form part of the Group financial statements. 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 May 2009
47  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009     Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Operating profit after exceptional items    37,483 27,978
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   16 4,721 3,514
Amortisation of intangible assets   15 7,820 7,417
Increase in inventories    (3,825) (2,030)
Increase in trade and other receivables    (21,674) (15,167)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables    13,482 (2,675)
Decrease in provisions    (44) –
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment    186 312
Share-based exceptional cost credited directly to equity    2,055 2,649
Fair value movements in derivatives    48 (11)
Exchange differences    6 (57)
Cash generated from operations    40,258 21,930
Finance income    782 1,759
Finance expense    (1,152) (476)
Taxation paid    (2,543) (523)
Cash generated from operating activities    37,345 22,690
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible assets    (681) (369)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (4,949) (3,999)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    885 522
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings net of cash/overdrafts acquired   30 (748) (24,805)
Payment of deferred consideration including finance costs   30 (3,852) (11,054)
Net cash outflow from investing activities    (9,345) (39,705)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of bank loans    (6) (6)
Capital element of hire purchase agreements    (96) (237)
Purchase of own shares held in trust   28 (2,658) –
Dividends paid to minority shareholders of subsidiaries    (67) (34)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company    (4,884) (1,568)
Increase in current asset investments    (3,706) (306)
Proceeds from issue of shares   26 – 28,956
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities    (11,417) 26,805
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents    16,583 9,790
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year   22 15,322 5,532
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year   22 31,905 15,322 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 May 2009
48 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 eaga plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies 
Act 2006 (Registered No. 3858865). The address of the registered office is eaga House, Archbold Terrace, Jesmond, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 1DB. The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of outsourced services and products that help households and 
families deal with many different aspects of environmental, social, economic and technological change. The Group also 
provides installation services including heating, insulation and renewable technologies, together with the development 
and fulfilment of carbon saving measures. In doing so, it serves a broad customer base which includes central and local 
Government, utility companies, private sector organisations and the BBC.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (‘IFRIC’) Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 
revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through  
profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.  
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The 
areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant  
to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed at the end of the Group accounting policies.
New Standards and Interpretations
From 1 June 2008 the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted  
by the Group:
•	 I F R S 7	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 F inancial 	 instrum en ts : 	 disclos ur e
•	 IA S 2 7	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 Consolidat e d 	 and 	 separ at e 	 financial 	 st at em en ts
•	 IA S 3 9	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 F inancial 	 instrum en ts
• 	 I F R I C 1 2 	 S e r vic e 	 conc ession 	 arr an g e m e n ts
The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Group’s profit for the  
year or equity. 
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted early  
by the Group:
•	 I F R S 1	 Re vise d 	 – 	 F irst 	 tim e 	 a dop tion 	 of 	 in t ernational 	 financial 	 r epor ting 	 st andar ds
•	 I F R S 2	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 S har e - b ase d 	 pay m en ts : 	 V esting 	 conditions 	 and 	 canc ellations
•	 I F R S 2	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 S har e - b ase d 	 pay m en ts : 	 Gr oup 	 cash - se t tl e d 	 shar e - b ase d 	 pay m en t 	 tr ansactions
•	 I F R S 3	 Re vise d 	 – 	 Busin ess 	 comb inations
•	 I F R S 8	 O p er ating 	 se gm en ts
•	 IA S 1	 Re vise d 	 – 	 Pr esen t ation 	 of 	 financial 	 st at em en ts
•	 IA S 1	 	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 Pr esen t ation 	 of 	 financial 	 st at em en ts : 	 Put t ab l e 	 F inancial 	 I nstrum en ts 	 and 	 O b li gations 	 Arising 	 
on Liquidation
•	 IA S 2 3	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 B orr o wing 	 costs
•	 IA S 2 7	 Re vise d 	 – 	 C onsolidat e d 	 and 	 separ at e 	 financial 	 st at em en ts
•	 IA S 3 2	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 F inancial 	 instrum en ts : 	 Pr esen t ation
•	 I F R I C 9	 Am endm en t 	 – 	 Emb e dd e d 	 d eriv ativ es
•	 I F R I C 1 3	 C ust om er 	 lo y alt y 	 pr o gr amm es
•	 I F R I C 1 4	 The 	 limit 	 on 	 a 	 d efin e d 	 b en efit 	 asse t , 	 minimum 	 funding 	 r e quir em en ts 	 and 	 their 	 in t er action
•	 I F R I C 1 5	 Agr e em en ts 	 f or 	 construction 	 of 	 r e al 	 est at es
Group Accounting Policies
49  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 •	 I F R I C 1 6	 H e dg es 	 of 	 a 	 n e t 	 in v estm en t 	 in 	 a 	 f or ei gn 	 op er ation
•	 Am endm en ts 	 t o 	 the 	 f ollo wing 	 st andar ds 	 arising 	 fr om 	 the 	 April 	 2 0 0 9 	 Annu al 	 I mpr o v em en ts 	 pr oc ess : 	 I F R S 2 , 	 I F R S 5 , 	 I F R S 8 , 	 IA S 1 , 	
IAS7, IAS17, IAS18, IAS36, IAS38, IAS39, IFRIC9 and IFRIC16.
IFRS2 Amendment, IFRS3 and IAS27 are effective for the Group from 1 June 2010. The other standards, amendments and 
revisions are effective for the Group from 1 June 2009. The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations 
is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s profits or equity. The adoptions may affect disclosures in the 
Group’s financial statements.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries  
are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group using the purchase method of accounting,  
whereby the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair value at the  
date of acquisition. They are excluded from the consolidated financial statements from the date that control ceases.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to 
the Group. Purchases of minority interests’ shareholdings result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration 
paid and the share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary. Disposals to minority interests result in gains 
and losses for the Group and are recorded in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies into 
line with those used by the Group. All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on 
consolidation. When the financial year end of a subsidiary differs from the Group’s year end, the subsidiary is consolidated 
using management accounts for the relevant period.
Joint Ventures
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control over its operating and financial policies. The Group’s 
interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, whereby the Group’s share of joint 
venture income, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows are combined on a line-by-line basis with equivalent items in 
the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. The Group recognises only the proportion of gains or losses 
on the sale of assets to joint ventures that is attributable to other venturers. The Group does not recognise its share of gains 
or losses from joint ventures that result from the Group’s purchase of assets from them until it re-sells those assets to an 
external entity.
Foreign Currency Translation
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements  
are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially translated into the functional currency by applying the exchange rate  
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated  
to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are recognised in the income statement. 
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the original 
transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate  
when the fair value was determined.
The functional currency of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries is the Canadian Dollar for eaga Canada Inc, eaga Canada 
Services Inc, Ark Solar Products Limited, Integrated Energy Systems Limited and Homeworks Services Inc and Indian  
Rupees for eaga Energy India Private Limited. As at the balance sheet date, the assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries 
are translated into Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at that date and their income statements are translated at  
the weighted average exchange rates for the period. The exchange differences arising on translation are recognised  
as a separate component of equity. On transition to IFRS, the translation reserve was set to zero, as permitted under  
IFRS1. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries,  
and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ 
equity. When a foreign subsidiary is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity  
are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign subsidiary are treated as assets and liabilities  
of the foreign subsidiary and translated at the closing rate.
Group Accounting Policies
Continued
50 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. 
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Depreciation is calculated  
so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis  
over the expected useful economic lives at the following rates:
Land and buildings 2%
Alterations to leasehold property Period of lease
Fixtures and fittings 20-33%
Equipment 20-50%
Motor vehicles 20-33%
An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset is recognised in the income statement  
in the period the asset is de-recognised.
Assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each 
balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Business Combinations and Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is recognised in intangible assets and measured at cost being the excess of the 
fair value of the consideration exchanged, including directly attributable acquisition costs, over the Group’s interest in the fair 
value of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition. Where the fair value of the acquired net identifiable 
assets exceeds consideration, the excess or ‘negative goodwill’ is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to those cash generating units that are 
expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating segment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition. The cost of intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination is measured at fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group has no internally generated intangibles which meet the recognition criteria. Expenditure on internally generated 
intangibles is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of intangible assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives,  
as follows:
Acquisition intangibles Over life of the intangible asset (typically 2-5 years)
Computer software 2-5 years
Patent assets Over life of patent (typically 5-20 years)
Intangible assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Assets’ amortisation periods and amortisation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if 
appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of intangible assets is measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets and is recognised in the income statement in the period the asset is  
de-recognised.
Impairment of Non-financial Assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any 
such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the 
asset’s recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value 
in use. Where fair value cannot be determined then the recoverable amount will be determined by reference to value 
in 	 use . 	 V alu e 	 in 	 use 	 is 	 d e t ermine d 	 f or 	 an 	 individual 	 asse t , 	 unl ess 	 the 	 asse t 	 do es 	 no t 	 g en er at e 	 cash 	 flo ws 	 that 	 ar e 	 lar g ely 	
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, in this case an individual asset will be included in a larger  
cash generating unit.
51  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount  
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in that expense category consistent 
with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that 
previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group 
makes an estimate of any amount recoverable.
A previously recognised impairment loss is only reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine  
the asset’s recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a ‘first in – first out’ basis and 
comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet include cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with original 
maturities of three months or less.
Current asset investments include cash balances held on deposit for periods greater than three months and certain 
restricted cash balances including those in relation to the Group’s self insurance activities. These balances have been 
excluded from cash in the Group’s balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Provisions
Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as  
a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and  
the amount can be reliably measured. If the effect is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
A provision is recognised to cover dilapidations on buildings leased by the Group, as required in the leasing agreement.  
The amount recognised is management’s best estimate of the costs likely to be incurred in carrying out the remedial  
work required.
Employee Pension Obligations
The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans. The Group pays contributions to corporate or individually 
administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further obligation under 
these plans once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense 
when they are due.
Permarock Products Limited, a subsidiary company, has a defined benefit plan for the benefit of less than twenty Partners.  
The plan is closed to new members and all benefits accruing to current members are frozen. The Group recognises a liability 
in the financial statements representing the net obligation under the plan based on a valuation from an independent actuary 
which is updated at least annually, but does not recognise an asset. Movements in the net obligation are credited/charged 
to the income statement. Full IAS19 defined benefit disclosures are not given because the defined benefit obligation, plan 
assets and net surplus/deficit are not material.
Leases
Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased 
asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter  
of the estimated useful economic life of the asset and the lease term. The corresponding leasing commitments, net of 
finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest components so that the interest element is charged to 
the income statement over the period of the lease at a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability 
outstanding.
All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual rentals, net of any incentives received, recognised as an 
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Group Accounting Policies
Continued
52 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can 
be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, 
value added tax and other sales taxes. Where revenue has not been invoiced it is held within accrued income.
Certain of the Group’s activities will also involve the sub-contracting of installation of works to third parties. Revenue for sub-
contracted installations is recognised on a principal basis where the Group ultimately retains the risks and rewards of these 
installations.
The Group generates revenue from three main sectors being:
Managed Services
The Group acts as lead contractor and principal on a number of contracts. These contracts will typically involve multiple 
revenue streams. Revenue is generated from a combination of fixed and variable fees. Revenue is based on the fair value 
of each revenue stream and is recognised when the Group is contractually entitled to recognise the revenue.
Installation Services
Installation Services generates revenue from the installation of energy efficient measures such as central heating and 
insulation. Revenue is recognised by reference to the number of energy efficient measures installed.
Specialist Support Services
Specialist Support Services generates revenue from the provision of bespoke support services which are driven by the same 
market dynamics as other segments. Revenue is recognised at the date of sale except if services are to be provided over 
future periods where the income is deferred and recognised over the relevant period.
Construction Contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference 
to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is measured by surveys or valuations of 
work performed to date.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs 
incurred where it is probable those costs will be recoverable. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total 
contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period  
in which they are incurred.
Interest Income
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative at 
inception. Any embedded derivative is separated from the host contract where the associated economic characteristics 
and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract. The Group has reviewed its contracts and has not identified 
any embedded derivatives.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. The amount of the provision is measured as the difference between the receivable’s carrying amount and  
the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the receivable’s original effective interest rates. The amount 
of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Trade Payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated  
at amortised cost and any difference between the net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current 
liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after  
the balance sheet date.
53  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Derivatives
All derivatives are carried at fair value with movements in fair value recognised through the income statement.  
Hedge accounting is not applied.
Redeemable Preference Shares
Where redeemable preference shares exhibit the characteristics of a liability, they are recognised as a liability in the 
balance sheet, net of transaction costs. The corresponding dividends on those shares are charged as interest expense  
in the income statement.
Fair Valuation
Fair values are based on market values where available. Where market values are not readily available, the Group 
est a b l i s h es 	 f a i r 	 v a l u e 	 u s i n g 	 v a l u a t i o n 	 t e c h n i q u es ; 	 t h ese 	 i n c l u d e 	 t h e 	 u se 	 o f 	 r e c e n t 	 a r m ’ s 	 l e n g t h 	 t r a ns a c t i o ns , 	 r e f e r e n c e	 
to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
De-recognition of Financial Instruments
A 	 financial 	 asse t 	 is 	 d e - r e co gnise d 	 when : 	 the 	 ri gh ts 	 t o 	 r e c eiv e 	 cash 	 flo ws 	 fr om 	 the 	 asse t 	 hav e 	 e xpir e d ; 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 r e t ains 	 
the right to receive cash flows from the asset but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay  
t o 	 a 	 thir d 	 par t y; 	 or 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 has 	 tr ansf err e d 	 its 	 ri gh ts 	 t o 	 r e c eiv e 	 cash 	 flo ws .
A financial liability is de-recognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Taxes
Current Tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be 
recovered from or paid to the tax authorities. The tax rates used to compute the amounts are those that are enacted  
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred Tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, 
except:
•	 wher e 	 the 	 d ef err e d 	 t ax 	 liab ilit y 	 arises 	 fr om 	 the 	 initial 	 r e cognition 	 of 	 goodwill 	 or 	 of 	 an 	 asse t 	 or 	 liab ilit y 	 in 	 a 	 tr ansaction 	 
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
pr ofit 	 or 	 loss ; 	 and
•	 in 	 r esp e ct 	 of 	 t ax ab l e 	 t empor ar y 	 di f f er enc es 	 asso ciat e d 	 with 	 in v estm en ts 	 in 	 s ubsidiari es 	 or 	 join t 	 v en tur es , 	 wher e 	 the 	 timing 	
of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination 	 and , 	 at 	 the 	 time 	 o f 	 the 	 tr ans action , 	 af f ects 	 neither 	 the 	 acco un ting 	 pr ofit 	 nor 	 t ax able 	 pr ofit 	 or 	 lo ss ; 	 and 	 in 	 r espect 	
of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, deferred tax assets are 
only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset  
or liability is settled. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items credited  
or charged direct to equity in which case the deferred tax is also credited or charged to equity.
Share Capital
Ordinary and Preferred Ordinary Shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new 
shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Exceptional Costs
Exceptional costs comprise items of income and expense that are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which 
merit separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance. Examples 
of events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of income and expense as exceptional costs include, but are not 
limited to, impairment events, disposals of operations or individual assets, litigation claims by or against the Group and  
the restructuring of components of the Group’s operations.
Group Accounting Policies
Continued
54 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Dividends
Dividends paid on Ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are paid or approved by the Company’s shareholders, whichever is earlier.
Self Insurance
The Group has access to a protected cell which is registered and operational in Guernsey. The protected cell provides 
insurance cover against the costs incurred by the Group in relation to certain repairs of new or refurbished central heating 
systems. A liability, included within accruals and deferred income, is established based on the estimated costs of settling 
outstanding claims.
Share-based Payments
The Group allows employees to acquire shares of the Company through share option schemes, details of which  
are in the Remuneration Report. The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with  
a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking  
into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted  
to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market-based performance  
not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Group also operates a SIP under which qualifying Partners may receive free shares. The fair value of the free shares  
are recognised as an expense in the income statement over the vesting period of the shares.
ePT-funded Charges
To the extent that costs incurred by the Group are funded by ePT, whether by waiver of dividend or otherwise, the associated 
charges are treated in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies with the exception that they are separately 
disclosed on the face of the income statement and excluded from EBITA.
Significant Accounting Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions
In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the above accounting policies, 
management has used estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded.  
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which have the greatest impact on the consolidated financial 
statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain 
and are set out below.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the 
value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating a value in use amount requires 
management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to select  
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying value of goodwill at  
31 May 2009 was £59,111,000 (2008: £57,029,000). Further details are given in note 14.
Depreciation and Amortisation
The Group determines appropriate depreciation and amortisation periods for property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets held. This requires the use of judgement as to the appropriate lives for each category of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible asset. Asset lives are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate. There have been no significant 
changes in asset lives in the current financial year.
55  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
The Group’s primary format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
Primary Reporting Format – Business Segments
The Group is organised into three main businesses:
•	 M anag e d 	 S er vic es : 	 und er t aking 	 outsour c e d 	 pr o gr amm es 	 f or 	 c en tr al 	 and 	 local 	 G o v ernm en t 	 and 	 o ther 	 comm er cial 	
or g an i sa t ions ;
•	 Inst all ation 	 S er vic es : 	 inst all ation 	 of 	 en er gy 	 ef fici en t 	 impr o v em en ts , 	 along 	 with 	 c en tr al 	 he ating 	 inst allation 	 and 	 r elat e d 	
ser vic es 	 in 	 hom es 	 acr oss 	 the 	 UK ; 	 and
•	 S p e cialist 	 Suppor t 	 S er vic es : 	 pr o viding 	 a 	 r ang e 	 of 	 solutions 	 which 	 s uppor t 	 the 	 cust om ers 	 w e 	 ser v e 	 in 	 o ther 	 se gm en ts . 	 
These include aftercare and insurance services, wholesale insulation, on-line retail of energy efficient white goods,  
sale to utility companies of energy savings accredited to energy efficient measures installed and overseas activities.
Eliminations represent the elimination of inter-segment sales. Transfer pricing between business segments is set on an  
arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Revenue, costs, assets and liabilities have been 
allocat e d 	 b e t w e en 	 se gm en ts 	 firstly 	 on 	 those 	 it ems 	 sp e ci fic 	 t o 	 the 	 se gm en t ; 	 an y 	 r emaining 	 it ems 	 hav e 	 b e en 	 allocat e d 	 
using a reasonable basis such as revenue. Certain costs have not been allocated as identified below.
Year ended 31 May 2009
   Specialist
 Managed Installation Support
 Services Services Services Eliminations Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
Third party 439,229 231,754 67,921 – 738,904
Inter-segment – 109,066 10,119 (119,185) –
Total 439,229 340,820 78,040 (119,185) 738,904
Segmental operating profit 9,364 19,330 10,693 – 39,387
Unallocated ePT-funded charges (note 7)     (1,559)
Unallocated exceptional costs (note 8)     (345)
Operating profit after exceptional items     37,483
Net finance income     245
Tax expense     (10,758)
Profit for the year     26,970
Segment assets 49,371 121,912 29,055 – 200,338
Unallocated assets     40,014
Total assets     240,352
Segment liabilities (53,658) (31,722) (21,974) – (107,354)
Unallocated liabilities     (3,496)
Total liabilities     (110,850)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure (intangible assets and property, plant and equipment)
– additions 5,160 1,388 877 – 7,425
– acquisitions – – 236 – 236
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,885 2,131 705 – 4,721
Amortisation of intangible assets 256 7,470 94 – 7,820
EBITA 9,620 26,800 10,787 – 47,207
Unallocated assets comprise cash of £31,905,000 and a deferred tax asset of £8,109,000. Unallocated liabilities comprise 
loans and borrowings of £623,000 and current tax liability of £2,873,000. 
Notes to the Financial Statements
56 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued
Year ended 31 May 2008
   Specialist
 Managed Installation Support
 Services Services Services Eliminations Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  
Third party 420,262 144,314 74,384 – 638,960
Inter-segment – 104,808 2,641 (107,449) –
Total 420,262 249,122 77,025 (107,449) 638,960
Segmental operating profit 8,506 12,066 10,055 – 30,627
Unallocated exceptional costs (note 8)     (2,649)
Operating profit after exceptional items     27,978
Net finance income     387
Tax expense     (10,134)
Profit for the year     18,231
Segment assets 35,705 123,031 15,804 – 174,540
Unallocated assets     28,938
Total assets     203,478
Segment liabilities (42,880) (43,207) (10,158) – (96,245)
Unallocated liabilities     (472)
Total liabilities     (96,717)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure (intangible assets and property, plant and equipment) 
– additions 800 3,390 552 – 4,742
– acquisitions – 7,920 – – 7,920
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 628 2,412 474 – 3,514
Amortisation of intangible assets 113 7,249 55 – 7,417
EBITA 8,619 19,315 10,110 – 38,044
Unallocated assets comprise cash of £15,322,000, a deferred tax asset of £13,453,000 and a current tax asset of £163,000. 
Unallocated liabilities comprise loans and borrowings of £472,000.
Secondary Reporting Format – Geographical Segments
The Group is based in the United Kingdom and substantially all the Group’s operations occur within the United Kingdom.  
Revenue is based on the country in which the customer is located. Total assets and capital expenditure are based on  
asset location. No individual country other than the United Kingdom contributed more than 10% of consolidated revenue  
or assets therefore no further analysis is presented. 
2. REVENUE
Analysis by category:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
 Sales of goods and services (excluding share of joint ventures’ sales)    732,571 633,706
Share of sales of joint ventures    6,333 5,254
      738,904 638,960
57  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3. OPERATING PROFIT AFTER EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Operating profit after exceptional items is stated after charging:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
 Staff costs (note 5)    133,712 115,041
Subcontractor costs    247,557 233,401
Inventories recognised as an expense    191,538 155,824
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    4,721 3,514
Amortisation of intangible assets    7,820 7,417
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment    186 312
Operating lease rentals:
– property    3,041 2,049
– plant and machinery    2,133 2,422
Hire of motor vehicles    9,603 4,898
Impairment of trade receivables    331 650
4. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from their auditors and 
network firms at costs detailed below:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 
(including consolidated financial statements)    100 100
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
The auditing of financial statements of undertakings of the Company pursuant to legislation   160 150
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation    43 49
Other services relating to taxation    99 157
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed  
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company    147 –
Other services    33 –
      582 456
The Group also capitalised £Nil (2008: £16,000) of non-audit fees within goodwill relating to acquisitions.
5. STAFF COSTS
Staff costs for the Group during the year:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries    118,436 98,557
Charge in respect of share options (note 6)    2,055 2,649
Social security costs    10,131 10,538
Other pension costs (note 32)    3,090 3,297
      133,712 115,041
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
58 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5. STAFF COSTS continued
The average monthly number of people employed by the Group, including a proportionate share of people employed  
by joint ventures, is set out in the table below:
By Category
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    Number Number
Clerical and management    1,442 1,233
Insulation and heating installers    1,660 1,618
Surveyors and similar roles    458 458
Other    915 841
      4,475 4,150
Key Management Compensation
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Salaries and short-term employee benefits    1,482 1,674
Post-employment benefits    36 35
      1,518 1,709
Key management personnel comprise the Company’s Board, details of whose remuneration are given in the Remuneration 
Report.
6. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
During the years ended 31 May 2009 and 31 May 2008, the Group had four share-based payment arrangements which  
are summarised below, further details of the plans are detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38.
(i) IPO Option Plan (‘IPO OP’)
 The IPO OP provided for the grant of nil cost options. The awards were granted to Partners in February and March 
2007, the awards vested and were exercised on successful admission to the Company’s shares to the London Stock 
Exchange which was affected on 7 June 2007.
(ii) IPO Key Management Plan (‘IPO KMP’)
 The IPO KMP provided for the grant of nil cost options. The awards were granted to certain Partners on 31 May 2007 
and were conditional on successful admission of the Company’s shares to the London Stock Exchange. The awards 
vested 50% on the first anniversary of admission and 50% on the second anniversary of admission to the London Stock 
Exchange.
(iii) Management Incentive Plan (‘MIP’)
 The MIP provides for the grant of nil cost options. The awards were granted to certain Partners on 14 October 2008. 
The vesting period is three years of which 50% is dependent upon the level of increase in earnings per share over the 
vesting period, and the remaining 50% is dependent upon the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Group 
compared to the FTSE mid 250 index over the vesting period.
(iv) Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’)
 The SIP provided for the grant of free shares to all eligible Partners. The awards were granted to all Partners on  
31 October 2008. The vesting period over these awards is one year.
59  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 6. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
 Type of arrangement  IPO OP IPO KMP SIP MIP
Year ended 31 May 2009
Outstanding at 1 June 2008  – 2,003,298 – –
Granted in the year  – – 2,269,903 1,366,245
Exercised in the year  – (791,697) (30,656) –
Expired in the year  – (298,112) (61,309) –
Outstanding at 31 May 2009  – 913,489 2,177,938 1,366,245
Exercisable at 31 May 2009  n/a 87,291 – –
Weighted average remaining contractual life  n/a 7 days 5 months 2.4 years
Weighted average fair value of options granted in 2009 (pence)  n/a n/a 114.5 86.1
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence)  – 122.7 133.3 –
Year ended 31 May 2008
Outstanding at 1 June 2007  57,514,127 2,073,340 – –
Exercised in the year  (57,514,127) – – –
Expired in the year  – (70,042) – –
Outstanding at 31 May 2008  – 2,003,298 – –
Exercisable at 31 May 2008  n/a – n/a n/a
Weighted average remaining contractual life  n/a 6 months n/a n/a
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence)  181.0 – – –
All of the share options above have a nil cost exercise price. 
The estimated fair values are calculated by applying a Black-Scholes option pricing model for all schemes other than the 
MIP, which has been calculated by applying a Monte Carlo pricing model. As all share options have been granted at nil 
cost, the assumptions used in the models that impact on valuation are as follows:
Share price  Price at date of grant
Option life  Per scheme rules
Expected dividends  Based on historical dividend yield
Levels of early exercises and lapses are estimated using historical averages.
The Group recognised total expenses of £2,055,000 (2008: £2,649,000) related to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions.
7. ePT-FUNDED CHARGES
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
ePT-funded Share Incentive Plan    1,559 –
The Group operates a SIP under which qualifying Partners may receive free shares. ePT waived its interim and final dividends 
for the year ended 31 May 2008 amounting to £2.8m (2008: £Nil). These funds have been used to finance initial awards under 
the SIP. This funding was utilised by the SIP trustee in October 2008 to acquire a number of shares in the Company to be held 
in order to meet the future commitment of the SIP. Further details of the share purchases are set out in note 28.
The SIP has no commitment to make any awards to Partners in excess of those funded to date by ePT. Because this expense 
has been fully funded by ePT, there is no material net impact on the Group’s reserves over the contractual life of the plan, 
cash or net assets against that which would have occurred had ePT not waived its dividends. Accordingly, the associated 
share-based payment charge incurred by the Company has been separately disclosed on the face of the income statement 
and excluded from EBITA.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
60 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 8. EXCEPTIONAL COSTS
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Share-based payments    345 2,649
Exceptional tax expense    – 1,189
Share-based Payments
Share-based payments comprise the IFRS2 charge arising in respect of the fair value of share options granted to certain 
key management under the IPO Key Management Plan by ePT. These awards were made solely in relation to successful 
admission of the Company’s shares to the London Stock Exchange. There was no cash cost to the Group in respect of the 
IFRS2 charge for these share-based payments and a credit of equal quantum is made to reserves resulting in unchanged 
net assets before recognising a deferred tax asset of £325,000 (2008: £429,000) in the balance sheet, being the benefit  
of a statutory corporation tax deduction under Schedule 23 Finance Act 2003 in respect of the share options when they  
are exercised. 
Exceptional Tax Expense
The impact of the reduction to the UK Corporation Tax rate from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008 on the Group’s 
deferred tax assets at 31 May 2008 was included in the income statement as an exceptional tax expense in respect of the 
year ended 31 May 2008.
9. FINANCE INCOME
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Bank interest receivable    616 1,511
Interest on loans to joint ventures    48 33
Income from current asset investments    118 215
      782 1,759
10. FINANCE EXPENSE
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts    307 423
Interest payable on hire purchase agreements    34 22
Amortisation of deferred consideration    140 746
Share of joint venture interest payable    56 55
Other interest payable    – 126
      537 1,372
11. TAXATION
(a) Tax Recognised in the Income Statement
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Current tax expense/(credit)    5,439 (1,531)
Adjustment in respect of current tax of previous years    (115) (56)
Share of joint venture tax    (6) 4
      5,318 (1,583)
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences    5,571 10,912
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous years    (131) (384)
Tax on profit for the year    10,758 8,945
61  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11. TAXATION continued
(b) Reconciliation of Tax Expense
The effective tax rate for the year relating to continuing operations as a proportion of profit before tax is 28.5% (2008: 31.5%).
This compares with the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 28% (2008: 29.7%) as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    37,728 28,365
At United Kingdom tax rate of 28% (2008: 29.7%)    10,564 8,415
Adjustment in respect of previous years    (246) (440)
Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes    98 693
Deferred tax not provided    342 277
Tax on profit for the year    10,758 8,945
(c) Deferred Tax
The deferred tax assets/(liabilities) included in the balance sheet are as follows:
 Share Decelerated   Other
 based capital Intangible  temporary
 payments allowances assets Losses differences Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 June 2007 30,909 209 (4,452) 242 72 26,980
Credited/(charged) in the income statement 455 1,535 2,147 (14,614) (51) (10,528)
Transfer between categories (30,909) – – 30,909 – – 
Impact of changes in UK tax rate (26) (73) 174 (1,263) (1) (1,189)
Acquired in business combination – 12 (1,822) – – (1,810)
At 31 May 2008 429 1,683 (3,953) 15,274 20 13,453
Transfer from provisions (note 25) – – – – 95 95
Credited/(charged) in the income statement (303) 756 2,048 (7,923) (18) (5,440)
Acquired in a business combination – 1 – – – 1
At 31 May 2009 126 2,440 (1,905) 7,351 97 8,109
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset as there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention  
to settle the balances net.
The Group has the following unprovided deferred tax assets:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Losses    1,047 456
These deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of generating sufficient taxable profits in the 
companies in which they arise.
12. DIVIDENDS
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 May 2008 – 2.0p per share (2007: Nil)    3,142 –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 May 2009 – 1.1p per share (2008: 1.0p per share)   1,742 1,568
      4,884 1,568
The Directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 May 2009 of 2.4p per share amounting to £6.1m  
(2008: 2.0p per share amounting to £5.1m), which is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. This final dividend has not been included as a liability in the financial statements as at 31 May 2009.
ePT waived its right to the both the interim and final dividends relating to the year ended 31 May 2008, reducing the charge 
to equity by £2.8m. The funds waived were used to fund the SIP (see note 7).
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
62 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company £(thousands)    26,703 17,945
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (thousands)    249,896 249,330
Basic earnings per share (pence)    10.69 7.20
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to 
assume conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares. 
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company £(thousands)    26,703 17,945
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (thousands)    249,896 249,330
Adjustments for dilutive effect of share options (thousands)    1,256 –
Adjustments for dilutive effect of Preferred Ordinary Shares (thousands)    – 827
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share (thousands)   251,152 250,157
Diluted earnings per share (pence)    10.63 7.17
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is stated excluding amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges and exceptional 
costs as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company £(thousands)    26,703 17,945
– ePT-funded charges (note 7)    1,559 –
– exceptional costs (note 8)    345 2,649
– amortisation of intangible assets    7,820 7,417
– tax effect of above adjustments    (2,816) (2,629)
– exceptional tax expense (note 8)    – 1,189
Adjusted profit £(thousands)    33,611 26,571
Adjusted basic earnings per share
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (thousands)    249,896 249,330
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)    13.45 10.66
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (thousands)    251,152 250,157
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)    13.38 10.62
63  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14. GOODWILL
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June    57,379 38,483
Acquisitions (note 30)    1,970 19,461
Exchange differences    112 69
Reassessment of consideration payable    – (634)
As at 31 May    59,461 57,379
Impairment
As at 1 June and 31 May    350 350
Net book value
At end of year    59,111 57,029
At start of year    57,029 38,133
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash generating units (‘CGUs) for impairment 
testing. These are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the 
associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. The carrying value of goodwill is as follows:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Installation Services    55,594 55,594
Specialist Support Services    3,517 1,435
      59,111 57,029 
The following CGUs include goodwill with a carrying value in excess of £5m:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
eagaheat    23,124 –
Horrocks Group plc    7,776 7,776
RG Francis Limited    6,963 6,963
White Horse FM Group Limited (‘HEAT’)    6,409 26,709
Other CGUs    14,839 15,581
      59,111 57,029
During the year ended 31 May 2009 the Group undertook a strategic reorganisation and rebranding exercise within its 
domestic heating businesses. This resulted in a change in composition of two CGUs to which goodwill had previously been 
allocated. The goodwill previously recognised on the acquisition of JD Heating (£2,824,000) and on the English operations 
of HEAT (£20,300,000) have been reallocated to the eagaheat CGU.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in 
use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct 
costs. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value  
of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets for the year to 31 May 2010 approved 
by the Board and extrapolates cash flows based on an estimated growth rate of 2-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax rate 
used to discount the forecast cash flows for all CGUs is 12.2% which is calculated based on the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital of 8.8% post tax. The Directors consider that the assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts are consistent  
with the historical performance of each CGU and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and market forecasts.  
It is believed that any reasonably forseeable movement on assumptions will not lead to an impairment and therefore 
sensitivity analysis has not been presented.
As at 31 May 2009 the Directors are satisfied that the values in use exceed their carrying value.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
64 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  Patent Computer Acquisition
  assets software intangibles Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June 2008  110 2,280 24,526 26,916
Additions  270 411 – 681
Acquisitions (note 30)  – 31 – 31
Exchange differences  – 3 – 3
As at 31 May 2009  380 2,725 24,526 27,631
Amortisation
As at 1 June 2008  30 1,333 10,392 11,755
Charge for the year  74 431 7,315 7,820
Acquisitions (note 30)  – 2 – 2
As at 31 May 2009  104 1,766 17,707 19,577
Net book value
As at 31 May 2009  276 959 6,819 8,054
As at 31 May 2008  80 947 14,134 15,161
  Patent Computer Acquisition
  assets software intangibles Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June 2007  110 1,911 18,016 20,037
Additions  – 369 – 369
Acquisitions  – – 6,510 6,510
As at 31 May 2008  110 2,280 24,526 26,916
Amortisation
As at 1 June 2007  10 1,079 3,249 4,338
Charge for the year  20 254 7,143 7,417
As at 31 May 2008  30 1,333 10,392 11,755
Net book value
As at 31 May 2008  80 947 14,134 15,161
As at 31 May 2007  100 832 14,767 15,699
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Acquisition intangible assets represent non-monetary assets separately identifiable from goodwill and include contractual 
customer relationships, trade names, patented and unpatented technology.
65  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Alterations Fixtures
 Land and to leasehold and  Motor
 buildings property fittings Equipment vehicles Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June 2008 3,373 1,442 2,491 13,680 740 21,726
Additions – 60 677 5,883 124 6,744
Acquisitions (note 30) – – 61 193 24 278
Exchange differences 41 18 1 28 8 96
Disposals – (283) (128) (379) (94) (884)
As at 31 May 2009 3,414 1,237 3,102 19,405 802 27,960
Depreciation
As at 1 June 2008 25 622 1,202 7,956 288 10,093
Charge for the year 52 163 554 3,795 157 4,721
Acquisitions (note 30) – – 10 53 8 71
Disposals – (181) (104) (286) (66) (637)
As at 31 May 2009 77 604 1,662 11,518 387 14,248
Net book value
As at 31 May 2009 3,337 633 1,440 7,887 415 13,712
As at 31 May 2008 3,348 820 1,289 5,724 452 11,633
  Alterations Fixtures
 Land and to leasehold and  Motor
 buildings property fittings Equipment vehicles Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June 2007 2,807 1,221 1,787 10,671 2,009 18,495
Additions – 227 542 3,432 172 4,373
Acquisitions 691 3 293 422 807 2,216
Exchange differences 51 – – 13 5 69
Disposals (176) (9) (131) (858) (2,253) (3,427)
As at 31 May 2008 3,373 1,442 2,491 13,680 740 21,726
Depreciation
As at 1 June 2007 2 447 811 5,678 474 7,412
Charge for the year – 176 410 2,516 412 3,514
Acquisitions 42 3 98 190 473 806
Disposals (19) (4) (117) (428) (1,071) (1,639)
As at 31 May 2008 25 622 1,202 7,956 288 10,093
Net book value
As at 31 May 2008 3,348 820 1,289 5,724 452 11,633
As at 31 May 2007 2,805 774 976 4,993 1,535 11,083
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged within administrative expenses in the income statement.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment includes £215,000 (2008: £195,000) in respect of assets held under 
finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
66 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES
The Group’s joint ventures, which are proportionately consolidated are N.E.S.T. Makers Limited and WarmSure Limited. As set 
out in note 35, since the year end the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the share capital of WarmSure Limited.
The amounts proportionately consolidated in the Group income statement and balance sheet are summarised below:
Income statement
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Revenue    14,999 12,767
Cost of sales    (12,645) (12,368)
Administrative expenses    (2,898) (677)
Finance income    8 16
Finance expense    (64) (55)
Loss before tax    (600) (317)
Tax (charges)/credit    (61) 27
Loss for the year    (661) (290)
Revenue includes £8,666,000 (2008: £7,513,000) of intragroup sales in the year.
Balance sheet
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets    463 497
Cash and cash equivalents    993 594
Other current assets    169 814
      1,625 1,905
Liabilities
Other non-current liabilities    (474) (452)
Other current liabilities    (3,066) (2,697)
      (3,540) (3,149)
Net liabilities    (1,915) (1,244)
The Group’s proportionate interest in joint ventures’ capital commitments and contingent liabilities was £Nil (2008: £Nil).
18. INVENTORIES
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables    3,067 2,726
Work in progress    3,870 4,551
Finished goods    5,784 1,291
      12,721 8,568
There have been no reversals of previous inventory write-offs in either year.
67  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Trade receivables    57,409 57,519
Less: provision for impairment of receivables    (1,706) (1,375)
Trade receivables – net    55,703 56,144
Amounts owed by related parties    1,260 1,368
Prepayments and accrued income    37,537 14,923
Other receivables    3,030 4,217
      97,530 76,652
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with 
exposure spread across a large number of customers. £21.6m (2008: £11.4m) is due from the Department of Energy and 
Climate Change (formerly the Department of Environment and Rural Affairs), the Group’s largest customer. £3.7m (2008: 
£1.3m) is due from DSHS Limited in relation to the Switchover Help Scheme. There are no other customers who represent 
more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
The carrying value of trade and other receivables is stated after a provision for impairment of receivables has been made. 
The provision is made by management based upon their assessment of the current economic environment and previous 
trading history with the counterparty. Given the nature of the counterparties which include local and central Government, 
there is no concern over the credit quality of amounts past due not impaired. The Directors consider that the carrying value 
of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
At 1 June    1,375 725
Charged to current year income statement    967 650
Unused amounts reversed    (636) –
At 31 May    1,706 1,375
The amount charged to the income statement is within administrative expenses.
Ageing of trade receivables
 31 May 2009 31 May 2008
  Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current  40,650 – 43,490 –
Past due less than three months  13,520 – 9,467 –
Past due more than three months but less than six months  1,808 (436) 1,283 –
Past due more than six months but less than one year  803 (642) 2,498 (594)
Past due more than one year  628 (628) 781 (781)
    57,409 (1,706) 57,519 (1,375)
20. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Derivative contracts    566 559
The derivative contracts comprise contracts in one of the Group companies that generate revenue based on the value 
of third party loan books. The derivatives are held at fair value which has been calculated based on discounted future 
forecast cash flows of revenue receivable.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
68 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21. CURRENT ASSET INVESTMENTS
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Current asset investments    8,644 4,938
Current asset investments are held at floating interest rates linked to UK Bank Base Rate.
22. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand    31,905 15,322
Cash at bank is held at floating interest rates linked to UK Bank Base Rate.
23. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Current trade and other payables
Trade payables    57,988 50,385
Taxes and social security, excluding current tax    4,048 3,662
Amounts owed to related parties    1,480 1,594
Accruals and deferred income    36,911 29,185
Other payables    5,375 5,697
Deferred consideration    536 4,528
      106,338 95,051
Non-current trade and other payables
Deferred consideration    – 156
Other payables    474 452
      474 608
Deferred consideration has been discounted based on the expected settlement dates. The Directors consider that the 
carrying value of the current trade and other payables approximates to fair value as a result of the short maturity period 
of the amounts as at the balance sheet date. The non-current other payables are unsecured and non-interest bearing. 
The Directors consider that the carrying value of these payables approximates to fair value as they are carried at their 
discounted present value of expected future cash flows using the effective interest rate method.
24. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Hire purchase obligations    205 90
Property loan    289 264
Cumulative redeemable preference shares    129 118
      623 472
69  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24. LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
On demand or within one year (shown under current liabilities)
Hire purchase obligations    72 82
Property loan    6 6
Cumulative redeemable preference shares    129 118
      207 206
In the second to fifth years
Hire purchase obligations    133 8
Property loan    21 20
      154 28
Due after more than five years
Property loan    262 238
      262 238
Total borrowings    623 472
Less: amount due for settlement within one year (shown under current liabilities)    (207) (206)
Amount due for settlement after one year    416 266
The creditors falling due after more than one year comprise hire purchase obligations and the property loan. The Directors 
consider that the carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings approximate to their fair value.
Bank Loans
At 31 May 2009, the Company has committed term loan facilities with Barclays Bank plc which have a floating interest rate, 
linked to LIBOR. The total facility of £75,000,000 comprises:
•	 £ 6 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 	 r e v olving 	 cr e dit 	 f acilit y 	 e xpiring 	 on 	 1 7 	 M ar ch 	 2 0 1 2. 	 A t 	 3 1 	 M ay 	 2 0 0 9 	 this 	 f acilit y 	 w as 	 undr awn ;
•	 £ 5 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 	 o v er dr a f t 	 f acilit y 	 e xpiring 	 on 	 1 7 	 M ar ch 	 2 0 1 0 . 	 A t 	 3 1 	 M ay 	 2 0 0 9 	 this 	 f acilit y 	 w as 	 undr awn ; 	 and
•	 £ 1 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 	 l e t t er 	 of 	 cr e dit 	 on 	 a 	 major 	 con tr act 	 e xpiring 	 on 	 3 1 	 D e c emb er 	 2 0 1 3 . 	 A t 	 3 1 	 M ay 	 2 0 0 9 	 this 	 f acilit y 	 w as 	 dr awn .
At 31 May 2008, the Company had committed facilities of £46,400,000 comprising a £35,000,000 loan facility with Barclays 
Bank plc, £10,000,000 letter of credit with Royal Bank of Scotland and other overdraft facilities of £1,400,000.
Hire Purchase Obligations
  Present value
 Minimum of minimum
 lease payments lease payments
  31 May 31 May 31 May 31 May
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under hire purchase agreements
Within one year  83 89 72 82
In the second year to fifth years inclusive  159 10 133 8
    242 99 205 90
Less: future finance charges  (37) (9) – –
Present value of hire purchase obligations  205 90 205 90
Less: amount due for settlement within one year (shown under current liabilities)  (72) (82) (72) (82)
Amount due for settlement after one year  133 8 133 8
The hire purchase obligations are secured against the related assets.
Property Loan
The property loan relates to a building held in Canada. The loan is secured on the property to which it relates. The loan term is 
25 years, is denominated in Canadian Dollars and is held at floating interest rates based on posted residential rates in Canada. 
The loan is on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
70 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24. LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares
The cumulative redeemable preference shares are held in Homeworks Services Inc (a Canadian subsidiary) and entitle  
the holder to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 3% on the paid up capital and the right to a return  
of capital at either winding up or a repayment of capital. The cumulative redeemable preference shares do not entitle  
the holder to any other participation in the profits or assets of Homeworks Services Inc and are redeemable on demand. 
These shares have no voting rights.
The total number of authorised cumulative redeemable preference shares is 2,500 (2008: 2,500) of which 2,500  
(2008: 2,500) were allotted and fully paid at the balance sheet date.
25. PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
   Dilapidation Pension
   provision provision Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 June 2008   342 244 586
Charged/(credited) in the year to income statement   200 (339) (139)
Transfer to deferred taxation (note 11)   – 95 95
As at 31 May 2009   542 – 542
The dilapidations provision held by the Group as at 31 May 2009 is held to cover dilapidations on leased properties.
The pension provision held by the Group as at 31 May 2008 was held to cover post-employment benefits accruing to certain 
employees of Permarock Products Limited. At 31 May 2009 the pension scheme’s deficit has reversed to a small surplus and  
as such there is no provision. See note 32 for further details.
26. SHARE CAPITAL
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Authorised equity share capital
330,000,000 (2008: 330,000,000) Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each    330 330
Allotted and called up equity share capital
251,408,802 (2008: 250,593,245) Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each    251 251
Year ended 31 May 2009
On 31 August 2008 815,557 Ordinary Shares of £0.001 were allotted at a mid-market price of 134.88p in respect of the 
acquisition of Horrocks Group plc.
Year ended 31 May 2008
Immediately prior to the Company’s admission to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 7 June 2007,  
the Company restructured its share capital by:
• 	 i n c r e a s i n g 	 t h e 	 a u t h o r i se d 	 s h a r e 	 c a p i t a l 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 f r o m 	 £ 5 3 , 0 0 0 	 t o 	 £ 3 3 0 , 0 0 0 	 b y 	 t h e 	 c r e a t i o n 	 o f 	 2 7 7 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0	 
O r dinar y 	 S har es 	 of 	 £ 0 . 0 0 1 ;
•	 issuing 	 a 	 fur ther 	 1 , 5 2 0 , 2 0 8 	 Pr ef err e d 	 O r dinar y 	 S har es ;
• 	 a l l o t t i n g , 	 b y 	 w a y 	 o f 	 b o n u s 	 i s s u e 	 a 	 t o t a l 	 o f 	 1 8 1 , 6 8 4 , 5 4 2 	 n e w 	 O r d i n a r y 	 S h a r es 	 t o 	 t h e 	 e x i st i n g 	 O r d i n a r y 	 S h a r e h o l d e r s 	 t h e	
nominal amount of such new Ordinary Shares being paid up from the Company’s distributable profits and such shares 
b eing 	 allo t t e d 	 pr o 	 r at a 	 among st 	 the 	 e xisting 	 hol d ers 	 of 	 O r dinar y 	 S har es ;
•	 con v er ting 	 e ach 	 of 	 the 	 Pr ef err e d 	 O r dinar y 	 S har es 	 in t o 	 O r dinar y 	 S har es ; 	 and
•	 allo t ting, 	 b y 	 w ay 	 of 	 Pub lic 	 Pl acing, 	 1 6, 5 7 4, 586 	 O r dinar y 	 S har es .
On 31 October 2007 333,908 Ordinary Shares of £0.001 were allotted at a mid-market price of 191.15p in respect of the 
acquisition of Horrocks Group plc.
71  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 26. SHARE CAPITAL continued
The following is a reconciliation of the authorised and issued share capital:
    Authorised Allotted
  Authorised Allotted Preferred Preferred
  Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
  at £0.001 each at £0.001 each at £0.001 each at £0.001 each
At 1 June 2007  40,001 40,001 52,959,999 50,440,000
Increase in authorised share capital on 6 June 2007  277,000,000 – – –
Preferred Ordinary Shares allotted on 6 June 2007  – – – 1,520,208
Bonus issue of Ordinary Shares on 6 June 2007  – 181,684,542 – –
Conversion of Preferred Ordinary Shares to Ordinary Shares on 6 June 2007  52,959,999 51,960,208 (52,959,999) (51,960,208)
Ordinary Shares allotted on 7 June 2007  – 16,574,586 – –
Ordinary Shares allotted on 31 October 2007  – 333,908 – –
At 31 May 2008  330,000,000 250,593,245 – –
Ordinary Shares allotted on 31 August 2008  – 815,557 – –
At 31 May 2009  330,000,000 251,408,802 – –
27. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
    Attributable to
    the equity
    holders
 Share Retained Other of the Minority Total
 capital earnings reserves Company interest equity
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 June 2007 50 54,856 3,648 58,554 112 58,666
Profit for the year – 17,945 – 17,945 286 18,231
Share-based payments (note 6) – 2,649 – 2,649 – 2,649
Bonus issue of shares 182 – (182) – – –
Dividends paid to minority shareholders of subsidiary – – – – (34) (34)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company – (1,568) – (1,568) – (1,568)
Currency translation differences – – 70 70 (2) 68
Issue of share capital 19 – 28,730 28,749 – 28,749
At 31 May 2008 251 73,882 32,266 106,399 362 106,761
Profit for the year – 26,703 – 26,703 267 26,970
Share-based payments (note 6) – 2,046 – 2,046 9 2,055
Dividends paid to minority shareholders of subsidiary – – – – (67) (67)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company – (4,884) – (4,884) – (4,884)
Purchase of own shares held in trust – – (2,658) (2,658) – (2,658)
Share options exercised in the year – (38) 38 – – –
Currency translation differences – – 222 222 3 225
Issue of share capital 0 – 1,100 1,100 – 1,100
At 31 May 2009 251 97,709 30,968 128,928 574 129,502
Share capital represents the nominal value of the Company’s issued share capital.
The total equity available for distribution to the equity holders of the Company is £97,709,000 (2008: £73,882,000). 
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
72 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 28. OTHER RESERVES
 Share Capital
 premium redemption Own share Translation
 account reserve reserve reserve Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 June 2007 190 3,600 – (142) 3,648
Bonus issue of shares (182) – – – (182)
Currency translation differences – – – 70 70
Issue of share capital 28,730 – – – 28,730
As at 31 May 2008 28,738 3,600 – (72) 32,266
Purchase of own shares held in trust – – (2,658) – (2,658)
Share options exercised in the year – – 38 – 38
Currency translation differences – – – 222 222
Issue of share capital 1,100 – – – 1,100
As at 31 May 2009 29,838 3,600 (2,620) 150 30,968
The share premium account represents the amount received on the issue of shares in excess of the nominal value.
The capital redemption reserve represents a reserve credited upon the redemption of the Company’s own shares in  
order to maintain the Company’s reserves.
The own share reserve represents the shares purchased to fund the SIP together with shares issued to Partners under  
that plan.
The translation reserve represents cumulative foreign exchange differences on the retranslation of the net assets of  
foreign subsidiaries.
29. FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS
The Group leases various properties comprising offices and warehouses and other items such as vehicles under  
non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable  
operating leases are as follows:
	 	 V ehic les , 	 plant
 Land and buildings and equipment
  31 May 31 May 31 May 31 May
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year  2,092 2,048 1,523 3,638
In the second to fifth years inclusive  7,153 6,457 493 1,982
After five years  6,172 7,613 – –
    15,417 16,118 2,016 5,620 
30. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
The following table summarises the cash outflow as a result of the acquisitions during the year to 31 May 2009:
     £’000
Acquisition of Protocol Communications Management Limited     (1,543)
Protocol Communications Management Limited net cash acquired     795
Total net consideration paid     (748)
Deferred consideration on Protocol Communications Management Limited     (750)
Deferred consideration on White Horse FM Group Limited     (2,000)
Deferred consideration on George Howe Limited     (847)
Deferred consideration on AFR Limited     (600)
Deferred consideration on Integrated Energy Systems Limited     (167)
Reclaimable consideration on RG Francis Limited     512
Total deferred consideration paid     (3,852)
73  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
On 14 October 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Protocol Communications Management 
Limited a company registered in England and Wales. Protocol Communications Management Limited is a fulfilment and 
distribution company. The consideration paid was £1,543,000 including acquisition expenses of £43,000. There is further 
consideration of up to £1,500,000 payable fourteen months from the date of acquisition depending on the post-acquisition 
results of the company.
The book values and provisional fair value adjustments of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquisition were:
     Total
     £’000
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets     29
Property, plant and equipment     207
Inventories     328
Trade and other receivables     1,179
Deferred tax asset     1
Cash and cash equivalents     795
Trade and other payables     (1,685)
Corporation tax liability     (164)
Loans and borrowings     (17)
       673
Goodwill     1,970
Cash consideration     1,500
Contingent cash consideration     1,100
Acquisition expenses     43
       2,643
If all the acquisitions had been completed on 1 June 2008 Group revenues for the year and Group profit before taxation 
would have been £738,965,000 and £38,286,000 respectively.
The post-acquisition profit before taxation from this acquisition in the year ended 31 May 2009 was £665,000.
The following table summarises the cash outflow as a result of the acquisitions during the year to 31 May 2008:
     £’000
Acquisition of Horrocks Group plc     (9,067)
Horrocks Group plc net overdraft acquired     (214)
Acquisition of RG Francis Limited     (9,820)
RG Francis Limited net overdraft acquired     (115)
Acquisition of AFR Limited     (3,107)
AFR Limited net cash acquired     657
Acquisition of George Howe Limited     (3,312)
George Howe Limited net cash acquired     173
Total net consideration paid     (24,805)
Deferred consideration on White Horse FM Group Limited     (10,000)
Deferred consideration on JD Heating Limited     (500)
Contingent consideration on Everwarm Group Limited     (400)
Deferred consideration on Integrated Energy Systems Limited     (110)
Deferred consideration on Ark Solar Products Limited     (44)
Total deferred consideration paid     (11,054)
On 22 June 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of RG Francis Limited a company registered in 
England and Wales. RG Francis Limited, installs, services and repairs domestic central heating systems in the South-East  
of England. The consideration paid was £9,820,000 including acquisition expenses of £220,000. At 31 May 2008 £618,000 
was receivable from the vendors on finalisation of the completion accounts.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
74 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
On 25 September 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of AFR Limited a company registered in England 
and Wales. AFR Limited installs, services and repairs domestic central heating systems in the South-East of England. The initial 
consideration paid was £2,507,000 including acquisition expenses of £107,000. A further £600,000 was paid to the vendors on 
finalisation of the completion accounts. There was further consideration of up to £600,000 payable within twelve months from 
the date of acquisition depending on the post-acquisition results of AFR Limited.
On 26 October 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of George Howe Limited a company registered 
in England and Wales. George Howe Limited provides internal and external wall insulation in England and Wales. The initial 
consideration paid was £3,312,000 including acquisition expenses of £112,000. There was further consideration of up to 
£800,000 payable within twelve months from the date of acquisition depending on the post-acquisition results of George 
Howe Limited.
On 31 October 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Horrocks Group plc a company registered in 
England and Wales. Horrocks Group plc manufactures, installs and supplies external wall insulation products in England 
and Wales. The initial consideration paid was £9,729,000 including acquisition expenses of £266,000. There was further 
consideration of up to £1,100,000 to be settled in Ordinary Shares of eaga plc, payable within twelve months from the  
date of acquisition depending on the post-acquisition results of Horrocks Group plc.
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in credit risk, liquidity risk, 
foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the 
adverse effects of the following types of financial risk on the financial performance of the Group by monitoring levels of 
borrowings and the related finance costs.
In order to ensure stability of cash out flows, and hence manage interest rate risk, the Group has a policy of using a mixture 
of floating and fixed rate debt. Further to this the Group seeks to minimise the risk of uncertain funding in its operations by 
borrowing within a spread of maturity periods. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to manage interest 
rate costs and as such no hedge accounting is applied.
Capital Risk Management
The 	 Gr oup ’ s 	 primar y 	 ob je ctiv es 	 in 	 mana ging 	 its 	 capit al 	 ar e 	 t o 	 sa f e gu ar d 	 the 	 busin ess 	 as 	 a 	 going 	 conc ern ; 	 t o 	 main t ain 	
s u f fi c i e n t 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 fl e x i b i l i t y 	 t o 	 u n d e r t a k e 	 i t s 	 i n v est m e n t 	 p l a n s ; 	 a n d 	 t o 	 o p t i m i se 	 c a p i t a l 	 st r u c t u r e 	 i n 	 o r d e r 	 t o 	 r e d u c e 	 t h e	 
cost of capital.
The Group’s financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic 
conditions, business environment, changes to the Group’s business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.  
In order to maintain or adjust capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders,  
return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
Credit Risk
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions limited 
to financial institutions with an A rating or higher.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk as follows:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents    31,905 15,322
Trade and other receivables    97,530 76,652 
Derivative financial instruments    566 559
Current asset investments    8,644 4,938
75  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued
Liquidity Risk
The Group actively manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business 
needs. The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up for the 
foreseeable future. This has been further strengthened by the new bank facility entered into during the year.
The undrawn committed facilities and maturity profiles available to the Group at the balance sheet date are as follows:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Within one year    5,000 1,400
In two to five years    60,000 35,000
      65,000 36,400
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations so as to operate well within covenanted restrictions at 
all times.
Foreign Currency Risk
The Group operates in Canada, India and the Republic of Ireland and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from 
commercial transactions, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in foreign operations, as well as the 
purchase of certain items of stock denominated in foreign currencies.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the year end are  
as follows:
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
Monetary assets
Canadian dollar (C$000)    3,291 3,609
Euro (€000)    1,922 1,370
Indian rupee (INR000)    21,356 17,952
Monetary liabilities
Canadian dollar (C$000)    3,043 2,613
Euro (€000)    363 505
Indian rupee (INR000)    8,252 3,309
Foreign currency risk is not considered to represent a significant risk at this time as the level of foreign currency transactions 
is immaterial in the context of the Group and accordingly a sensitivity analysis is not presented.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities. Interest bearing assets include only cash 
balances and current asset investments, which earn interest at a floating rate of interest linked to UK Bank Base Rate.  
The Group maintains its debt at a floating rate of interest due to the low gearing of the Group other than the hire purchase 
obligations and redeemable preference shares that are held at a fixed rate of interest. The following table summarises the 
Group’s borrowings between fixed and floating rate borrowings.
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Floating rate borrowings
Property loan    289 264
      289 264
Fixed rate borrowings
Hire purchase obligations    205 90
Cumulative redeemable preference share    129 118
      334 208
Total borrowings    623 472
Interest rate risk is not considered significant at this time as the Group is net cash positive and accordingly a sensitivity 
analysis is not presented.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
76 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group in independently administered funds managed by third parties. The pension cost charged to the 
income statement represents contributions payable by the Group to the funds and amounted to £3,090,000 (31 May 2008: 
£3,297,000).
The Group operates a defined benefit plan for less than twenty Partners in a subsidiary acquired in the prior year. The plan 
is closed to new members and all benefits accruing to current members are frozen. Full IAS19 disclosures are not presented 
because the defined benefit plan assets and net surplus are not material. As at 31 May 2009 the net surplus in the plan was 
£54,000 (2008: net deficit £244,000).
33. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Identity of Related Parties
The Group has related party relationships with its shareholders including ePT’s, subsidiaries, joint ventures and with key 
management. 
No related party relationships with close family members of the Group’s key management existed in the current or prior years.
During the year to 31 May 2009 the Group purchased services with an aggregate value of £20,447 (2008: £20,000) from 
Stratagem (NI) Limited, a company in which Mr Quintin Oliver, Non-Executive Director of the Company, is a shareholder.  
At 31 May 2009 the balance owed to Stratagem (NI) Limited by eaga plc was £2,300 (2008: £1,469).
During the year to 31 May 2008 various Group companies provided services to Drew Johnson, Executive Director of the 
Company. The total value of services provided was £Nil (2008: £22,266). All services were provided on an arm’s length basis 
and £Nil was outstanding as at 31 May 2009 (2008: £Nil).
Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
Transactions entered into by the Company with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries, as well as the resultant balances 
of receivables and payables, are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed. Similarly, the Group’s 
share of transactions entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with joint ventures and the Group’s share of the 
resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions and balances with joint ventures before consolidation eliminations were as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Purchases of goods and services
– from joint ventures    8,666 7,513
Receivables
– due from joint ventures    2,531 2,736
Payables
– due to joint ventures    2,969 3,188
77  Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34. SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES
The main unquoted investments held by eaga plc as at 31 May 2009 are as follows:
    Percentage of
    Ordinary Shares
    attributable Year
 Subsidiaries Principal activity to eaga plc end
1st Insulation Partners Limited Sales of insulation materials 100% 31 May
AFR Limited Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
Ark Solar Products Limited* Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
Debind International (UK) Limited IT consulting 100% 31 May
eaga Canada Services Inc* Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
eaga Energy India Private Limited* IT consulting 90% 31 March
eaga Energy Solutions Limited Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
eaga Home Services Limited Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
eaga Insurance Services Limited Administration and claims settlements 85% 31 May
eaga Renewables Limited Installation of thermal energy water heating systems 100% 31 May
eaga Scotland Limited Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
EJ Horrocks Limited* Provision of external wall insulation services 100% 31 May
George Howe Limited Provision of external wall insulation services 100% 31 May
Heat, Energy and Associated Technology Limited* Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
Homeworks Services Inc* Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
eaga Heating Services Limited  
(formerly Iguana Services Limited) Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
Integrated Energy Systems Limited* Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
Permarock Products Limited* Provision of external wall insulation services 100% 31 May
Protocol Communications Management Limited Fulfilment and distribution 100% 31 May
Protocol Distribution Centre Limited* Fulfilment and distribution 100% 31 May
RG Francis Limited Energy efficiency services 100% 31 May
Joint ventures
WarmSure Limited Energy efficiency services 50% 31 May
* Held indirectly
All of the above companies are incorporated in England and Wales, with the exception of eaga Scotland Limited, which 
is incorporated in Scotland, Heat, Energy and Associated Technology Limited which is incorporated in Northern Ireland, 
Homeworks Services Inc, Ark Solar Products Limited, Integrated Energy Systems Limited and eaga Canada Services Inc  
which are incorporated in Canada, and eaga Energy India Private Limited which is incorporated in India.
Dormant and non-trading undertakings are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy.  
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is annexed to the Company’s annual return.
35. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 31 August 2009 the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding in its previous joint venture, WarmSure Limited.  
It is not expected that this transaction will result in significant goodwill or other intangible assets.
Notes to the Financial Statements
Continued
78 Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements 
of eaga plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 which comprise 
the Parent Company balance sheet and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities on page 32, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Parent Company financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared 
for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
appli e d 	 and 	 ad e quat ely 	 disclose d ; 	 the 	 r e asonab l en ess	 
of 	 signi fican t 	 accoun ting 	 estimat es 	 ma d e 	 b y 	 the 	 D ir e ct ors ; 	
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements:
•	 giv e 	 a 	 tru e 	 and 	 f air 	 vi ew 	 of 	 the 	 st at e 	 of 	 the 	 Compan y ’ s	
a f f airs 	 as 	 at 	 3 1 	 M ay 	 2 0 0 9 ;
• 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 U n i t e d	
K ing dom 	 G en er ally 	 A cc ep t e d 	 A ccoun ting 	 Pr actic e ; 	 and
•	 hav e 	 b e en 	 pr epar e d 	 in 	 accor danc e 	 with 	 the 	 r e quir em en ts	
of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 R e m u n e r a t i o n 	 R e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d	
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
C ompani es 	 A ct 	 2 0 0 6 ; 	 and
•	 the 	 inf ormation 	 giv en 	 in 	 the 	 D ir e ct ors ’ 	 Repor t 	 f or 	 the 	
financial year for which the Parent Company financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent 
Company financial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
• 	 a d e q u a t e 	 a c c ou n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 k e p t 	 b y 	 t h e	
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
no t 	 b e en 	 r e c eiv e d 	 fr om 	 b r anches 	 no t 	 visit e d 	 b y 	 us ; 	 or
• 	 t h e 	 P a r e n t 	 C o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e n t s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t	
of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
a gr e em en t 	 with 	 the 	 accoun ting 	 r e cor ds 	 and 	 r e turns ; 	 or
• 	 c e r t a i n 	 d i s c l o s u r es 	 o f 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 s p e c i fi e d	 
b y 	 law 	 ar e 	 no t 	 ma d e ; 	 or
•	 w e 	 hav e 	 no t 	 r e c eiv e d 	 all 	 the 	 inf ormation 	 and 	 e xpl anations	
we require for our audit.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial 
statements of eaga plc for the year ended 31 May 2009.
Bill MacLeod, Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle Upon Tyne
1 September 2009
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the members of eaga plc
79 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 May 2009
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets   2 8,034 4,953
Investments   3 85,876 83,233
      93,910 88,186
Current assets
Stock   4 5,187 907
Debtors: Due within one year   5 85,188 51,910
Debtors: Due after one year – Deferred tax asset   5 9,294 16,708
Cash at bank and in hand    20,271 10,621
      119,940 80,146
Creditors: Due within one year   6 (82,627) (68,718)
Net current assets    37,313 11,428
Total assets less current liabilities    131,223 99,614
Creditors: Due after more than one year   7 (35) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges   9 (542) (342)
Net assets    130,646 99,272
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital   10 251 251
Share premium account   11 29,838 28,738
Capital redemption reserve   11 3,600 3,600
Own share reserve   11 (2,620) –
Profit and loss account   11 99,577 66,683
Total equity    130,646 99,272
The Parent Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 September 2009 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Drew Johnson, Ian McLeod, Directors
The notes on pages 81 to 86 form part of these Parent Company financial statements. 
80 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1. PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Accounting
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, 
except as disclosed below, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards. 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s profit and loss account is not presented in 
these financial statements. The eaga plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2009 contain a 
consolidated cash flow statement, consequently, the Company has taken the exemption available in FRS1 (Revised 1996) 
Cash Flow Statements, and has not presented its own cash flow statement.
Tangible Fixed Assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Historical 
cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Depreciation is calculated so as to 
write off the cost of tangible fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the expected 
useful economic lives on the following rates:
Land and buildings 2%
Alterations to leasehold property Period of lease
Fixtures and fittings 20-33.3%
Equipment 20-50%
A tangible fixed asset is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use.  
Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset is recognised in the period the asset is de-recognised.
Assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each 
balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition of tangible fixed assets are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Fixed Asset Investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a “first in – first out” basis and 
comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Leases
Operating leases with annual rentals, net of any incentives received, are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease.
Pension Scheme
The Company operates a number of defined contribution plans. The Company pays contributions to corporate or 
individually administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company has no further 
obligation under these plans once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee 
benefit expense when they are due.
Deferred Taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet 
date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable and therefore recognised 
only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable 
taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing 
differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which 
the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is not discounted.
Foreign Currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at year-end exchange rates. 
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
81 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1. PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Share-based Payments
The Company allows employees to acquire its shares through share option schemes, details of which are in the Remuneration 
Committee Report. The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the options. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share 
options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market-based performance not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Company also operates a SIP under which qualifying Partners may receive free shares. The fair value of the free shares 
is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the shares.
Financial Instruments
Debtors and creditors are non-derivative financial assets or liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted on an active market. They are included within assets or liabilities at cost less impairment depending on when they 
fall due.
Accrued Income
Accrued income represents turnover that has not yet been invoiced to the customer.
2. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
   Alterations Fixtures
  Land and to leasehold and 
  buildings property fittings Equipment Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June 2008  2,491 545 1,447 7,985 12,468
Additions  – 23 484 5,040 5,547
As at 31 May 2009 2,491 568 1,931 13,025 18,015
Depreciation 
As at 1 June 2008  – 408 893 6,214 7,515
Charge for the year  50 69 357 1,990 2,466
As at 31 May 2009 50 477 1,250 8,204 9,981
Net book value
As at 31 May 2009 2,441 91 681 4,821 8,034
As at 1 June 2008  2,491 137 554 1,771 4,953
3. INVESTMENTS 
   Investments in 
   subsidiary Investments in 
   undertakings joint ventures Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
As at 1 June 2008   84,108 22 84,130
Acquisitions   2,643 – 2,643 
As at 31 May 2009   86,751 22 86,773 
Provision
As at 1 June 2008 and 31 May 2009   875 22 897
Net book value
As at 31 May 2009   85,876 – 85,876 
As at 31 May 2008   83,233 – 83,233
A list of the main subsidiary and joint venture undertakings is given in note 34 of the Group financial statements.  
The Directors believe that the carrying value of investments is supported by their underlying trading results and net assets.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Continued
82 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4. STOCK
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Finished goods    5,187 907
5. DEBTORS
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Due within one year  
Trade debtors    30,952 29,174
Amounts due from Group undertakings    23,243 12,520
Other debtors    1,507 3,240
Prepayments and accrued income    29,486 6,976
      85,188 51,910
Due after more than one year  
Deferred taxation (note 8)    9,294 16,708
      9,294 16,708
6. CREDITORS – DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Trade creditors    38,658 29,279
Amounts owed to Group undertakings    21,502 17,303
Corporation tax    – 170
Other taxation and social security    1,033 596
Other creditors    1,517 2,823
Accruals and deferred income    19,538 14,047
Hire purchase obligations    14 –
Deferred consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries    365 4,500 
      82,627 68,718
7. CREDITORS – DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Hire purchase obligations    35 –
83 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 8. DEFERRED TAXATION
A deferred tax asset has been recognised as shown below:
 Amounts recognised
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Tax effect of timing differences because of
Share-based payments    250 429
Losses    7,192 15,175
Short term timing differences    74 102
Excess of depreciation over capital allowances    1,778 1,002
      9,294 16,708
All movements in deferred taxation in the year have been (charged)/credited to the profit and loss account.
  Decelerated  Other
 Share-based capital  temporary
 payments allowances Losses differences Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 June 2008 429 1,002 15,175 102 16,708
Credited/(charged) in the year (14) 776 (7,983) (28) (7,249)
Transfer to Group undertakings (165) – – – (165)
At 31 May 2009 250 1,778 7,192 74 9,294 
9. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 
     Dilapidation 
     provision 
     £’000
As at 1 June 2008     342
Charged in the year     200
As at 31 May 2009     542
The dilapidations provision held by the Company as at 31 May 2009 is held to cover dilapidations on leased properties, 
as required in various lease agreements. The amount recognised is management’s best estimate of the costs likely to be 
incurred in carrying out the remedial work required.
10. SHARE CAPITAL
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Authorised equity share capital
330,000,000 (2008: 330,000,000) Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each    330 330
Allotted and called up equity share capital
251,408,802 (2008: 250,593,245) Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each    251 251
On 31 August 2008 the Company issued 815,557 £0.001 shares to settled deferred consideration due in respect of the 
acquisition of the Horrocks Group plc. The market price at this date was 134.88p.
The following is a reconciliation of the authorised and issued share capital:
    Authorised Allotted
    Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares 
    at £0.001 each at £0.001 each
As at 1 June 2008    330,000,000 250,593,245
Ordinary Shares allotted on 31 August 2008    – 815,557
As at 31 May 2009    330,000,000 251,408,802
 
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Continued
84 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11. RESERVES
  Share Capital  Profit
  premium redemption Own share and loss
  account reserve reserve account
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 June 2008  28,738 3,600 – 66,683
Profit for the year  – – – 36,800
Dividends  – – – (4,884)
Share-based payments  – – – 1,016
Purchase of own shares  – – (2,658) –
Share options excercised in the year  – – 38 (38)
Issue of share capital  1,100 – – –
As at 31 May 2009  29,838 3,600 (2,620) 99,577
12. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
    31 May 31 May
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Profit for the year    36,800 31,071
Dividends    (4,884) (1,568)
Share-based payments    1,016 2,649
Acquisiton of own shares    (2,658) –
Issue of share capital    1,100 28,749 
Net increase in equity shareholders’ funds    31,374 60,901
Opening equity shareholders’ funds    99,272 38,371
Closing equity shareholders’ funds    130,646 99,272
13. PROFIT AND LOSS DISCLOSURES
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account. 
The profit of the Company for the financial year was £36,800,000 (2008: £31,071,000).
Directors’ emoluments disclosures are provided in the Remuneration Report in the Group financial statements.
14. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
During the year ended 31 May 2009, the Company had three share-based payment arrangements which are summarised 
below, further details of the plans are detailed in the Remuneration Report.
(i) IPO Key Management Plan (IPO KMP)
The IPO KMP provided for the grant of nil cost options. The awards were granted to certain Partners on 31 May 2007 and 
were conditional on successful admission of the Company’s shares to the London Stock Exchange. The awards vested 50% 
on the first anniversary of admission and 50% on the second anniversary of admission to the London Stock Exchange.
(ii) Management Incentive Plan (MIP)
The MIP provides for the grant of nil cost options. The awards were granted to certain Partners on 14 October 2008. The 
vesting period is three years of which 50% is dependent upon the level of increase in Earnings Per Share over the vesting 
period, and the remaining 50% is dependent upon the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company compared 
to the FTSE mid 250 index over the vesting period.
85 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
(iii) Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP provided for the grant of nil cost options to all eligible Partners. The awards were granted to participating Partners 
on 31 October 2008. The vesting period over these awards is one year.
    
 Type of arrangement  IPO OP IPO KMP SIP MIP
Year ended 31 May 2009
Outstanding at 1 June 2008  – 2,003,298 – –
Granted in the year  – – 451,342 969,365
Exercised in the year  – (791,697) (1,646) –
Expired in the year  – (298,112) (8,367) –
Outstanding at 31 May 2009  – 913,489 441,329 969,365
Exercisable at 31 May 2009  n/a 87,291 – –
Weighted average remaining contractual life  n/a 7 days 5 months 2.4 years
Weighted average fair value of options granted in 2009 (pence)  n/a n/a 114.5 86.1
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence)  – 122.7 133.3 –
Year ended 31 May 2008
Outstanding at 1 June 2007  57,514,127 2,073,340 – –
Exercised in the year  (57,514,127) – – –
Expired in the year  – (70,042) – –
Outstanding at 31 May 2008  – 2,003,298 – –
Exercisable at 31 May 2008  n/a – n/a n/a
Weighted average remaining contractual life  n/a 6 months n/a n/a
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence)  181.0 – – –
All of the share options above have a nil cost exercise price.
The estimated fair values are calculated by applying a Black-Scholes option pricing model for all schemes other than the 
MIP, which has been calculated by applying a Monte Carlo pricing model. As all share options have been granted at nil 
cost, the assumptions used in the models that impact on valuation are as follows:
Share price Price at date of grant
Option life Per scheme rules
Expected dividends Based on historical dividend yield
Levels of early exercises and lapses are estimated using historical averages.
The Company recognised total expenses of £1,016,000 (2008: £2,649,000) related to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions.
15. DIVIDENDS
Details of the Company’s dividends are set out in Note 12 of the Group financial statements.
16. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
As permitted by FRS8 Related Party Disclosures, disclosure of related party transactions with companies controlled by eaga 
plc is not provided.
The net amount due from N.E.S.T. MAKERS Limited, a joint venture of eaga plc, at 31 May 2009 was £948,000 (2008: £904,000).
The net amount due to WarmSure Limited, a joint venture of eaga plc at 31 May 2009 was £866,000 (2008: £1,239,000). 
£8,666,000 (31 May 2008: £7,245,000) of services were purchased from WarmSure Limited in the year.
During the year eaga plc purchased services with an aggregate value of £20,447 (2008: £20,000) from Stratagem (NI) 
Limited, a company in which Mr Quintin Oliver, Non-Executive Director of eaga plc, is a shareholder. At 31 May 2009 the 
balance owed to Stratagem (NI) Limited by eaga plc was £2,300 (2008: £1,469).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Continued
86 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes
87 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes
88 Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
About eaga
05  Our Partners Our Values
07   Installation Services
09  Managed Services
1 1  Specialist Support Services
Business Review
12 Q&A with our new CEO
14 Operational Review
21 eaga in the Community 
22 Financial Review 
26 Board of Directors
28 Report of the Directors
32 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
33 Remuneration Report
39 Corporate Governance
44 Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Group Financial Statements
45 Independent Auditors’ 
Report
46 Consolidated Income 
Statement
46 Consolidated Statement  
of Recognised Income  
and Expense
47 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
48 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
49 Group Accounting Policies
56 Notes to the Financial 
Statements
Parent Company  
Financial Statements
79 Independent Auditors’ 
Report
80 Parent Company  
Balance Sheet
81 Notes to the Parent 
Company Financial 
Statements
eaga is a green support services  
company, the UK’s leading provider  
of residential energy efficiency  
solutions and an established deliverer  
of a range of outsourced programmes.
Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk 
Revive 50:50 Silk is a 50% recovered fibre and 50% virgin fibre  
product with FSC certification, produced from well-managed forests. 
This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-
recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification. www.eaga.com
Registered Office: eaga plc eaga House Archbold Terrace Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1DB www.eaga.com
Delivering 
sustainable living
Annual Report and Accounts  
Year ended 31 May 2009
making a difference
eaga Annual Report and Accounts Year ended 31 May 2009
