 Annual report and accounts 2009
Hangar 89
London Luton Airport
Luton
Bedfordshire
LU2 9PF
www.easyJet.com Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors’ report
easyJet plc is incorporated as a public  
limited company and is registered in  
England with the registered number 
3959649. easyJet plc’s registered office 
is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, 
Bedfordshire LU2 9PF.
The Directors present the Annual  
report and accounts for the year  
ended 30 September 2009. References  
to ‘easyJet’, the ‘Group’, the ‘Company’,  
‘we’, or ‘our’ are to easyJet plc or to  
easyJet plc and its subsidiary companies 
where appropriate. 
Pages 01 to 55, inclusive, of this Annual 
report comprise the Directors’ report  
that has been drawn up and presented  
in accordance with English company  
law and the liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with that report shall be  
subject to the limitations and restrictions 
provided by such law.
We’d like to thank everyone 
who helped to produce  
this report:
Mark Adams, Alexandra Barnes,  
Angela Bennett, Chris Bennett,  
Andy Berks, Henrietta Boulton,  
Hal Calamvokis, Pritesh Dattani,  
Chris Gadsden, Andrew Harrison,  
Pamela Harrison, Andy Hodges,  
Bruce James, Patrick Johnson,  
Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie,  
Thomas Loizeau, Cath Lynn,  
Sir David Michels, Captain Jim Pegram,  
Giles Pemberton, Alexa Pickersgill, 
Captain Dave Prior, Tom Smethers, 
Andrew Tempest, Rui Vaz Fernandes, 
Bunmi Williams and all of our employees 
across our network.
This annual report is printed on Revive Pure white 
silk, this paper is produced from 100% recycled 
fibre. Both the paper mill and printer involved in 
the production support the growth of responsible 
forest management and are both accredited 
to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for 
continuous environmental improvement and both 
are FSC certified. If you have finished reading this 
report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass 
it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in 
your recycled paper waste. 
This report is available at:  
http://corporate.easyjet.com/investors/reports-
and-accounts.aspx
56  Accounts
56  Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of easyJet plc
57 Consolidated income statement
58 Consolidated balance sheet
59 Consolidated cash flow statement
60  Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
61 Notes to the accounts
88 Company balance sheet
89 Company cash flow statement
90  Notes to the Company balance sheet  
and cash flow statement
92  Other information
92 Glossary
nAvigA tiOn th Ank y Ou!
q
01  Overview
01 2009 Business highlights
02 easyJet at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06  Business review
06 Strategy and KPIs
08 Review of strategy
16 Chief Executive’s statement
20 Financial review
30 Corporate responsibility
36   g overnance
36 Directors’ profiles
38 Executive management team
40 Corporate governance
44 Shareholder information
45 Report on Directors’ remuneration
55 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 01 easyJet plc
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
q
O VERVIEW
2009 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
Annual report and accounts 2009
 
2009 2008 Change
Total revenue (£ million) 2,667 2,363 12.9%
Profit before tax – underlying
1
 (£ million) 43.7 123.1 (64.5)%
Profit before tax – reported (£ million) 54.7 11 0.2 (50.4)%
Pre-tax margin – underlying
1
 (%) 1.6% 5.2% (3.6)ppt
Return on equity – reported (%) 5.5% 6.8% (1.3)ppt
Basic EPS – reported (pence) 16.9 19.8 (14.6)%
Total revenue per seat up 10.9% (4. 1% at constant currency),   q
driven by the strength of the easyJet network, competitor capacity 
reduction of around 6%, strong ancillary revenue performance  
and a 2.6% sector length increase
Passenger numbers up 3.4% to 45.2 million and load factor   q
improved by 1.4ppt to 85.5%
Underlying profit before tax q
1
 of £43.7 million delivered in line with 
expectation. The £79.4 million reduction in underlying pre-tax profit 
compared to the prior year is driven by a unit fuel cost increase 
equivalent to £86. 1 million and interest income lower by £30.5 million
Operating costs q
2
 per seat (excluding fuel and currency movement) 
increased by 3.9% for the full year . Total underlying cost per seat
1
 
(excluding fuel and currency movement) up 6.2% partly driven by 
increased sector length, planned lower aircraft utilisation during  
the winter and a £30.5 million reduction in interest income 
Significant progress on cost reduction initiatives: 19 expensive  q
aircraft exited from the fleet; systems implemented; renegotiation  
of our maintenance arrangements with SRT to deliver savings of 
around £175 million over the 11 year life of the contract
easyJet’s position in European short-haul aviation has strengthened  q
with market share gains in a number of valuable markets such as 
Paris, London Gatwick, Milan and Madrid and over a 10% increase  
in slots at capacity constrained airports
Sufficient resources in place through a combination of undrawn  q
committed facilities and surplus cash to fund future aircraft  
deliveries for at least the next 18 months
Forward bookings broadly in line with prior year q
Note 1:  Underlying financial performance excludes an £1 1.0 million profit on the disposal of three aircraft in 2009, and £12.9 million of costs associated 
with the integration of GB Airways in 2008.
Note 2:  Excludes interest income.
Highlights
Results at a glance 02 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
During 2009 we have 
delivered a resilient financial 
performance.
By building strong positions 
at major airports in key 
markets such as London 
Gatwick, Milan, Madrid and 
Paris we have developed 
Europe’s premier air 
transport network.
easyJet A T A GLANCE
1 14 airports
27 countries
– Aberdeen
– Alicante
– Almeria
– Amsterdam
– Asturias
– Athens
– Barcelona
– Bari
–  Basel-Mulhouse-
Freiburg
–  Belfast 
International
–  Berlin 
Schoenefeld
– Biarritz
– Bilbao
– Birmingham
– Bodrum
– Bordeaux
– Bournemouth
– Brindisi
– Bristol
–  Brussels 
International
–  Bucharest 
(Baneasa)
–  Bucharest 
(Otopeni)
– Budapest
– Cagliari (Sardinia)
–  Casablanca 
(Mohammed V)
– Catania (Sicily)
– Cologne / Bonn
– Copenhagen
– Corfu
– Corsica (Ajaccio)
– Corsica (Bastia)
–  Crete (Heraklion)
– Cyprus (Larnaca)
– Cyprus (Paphos)
– Dalaman
– Dortmund
– Dubrovnik
– East Midlands
– Edinburgh
– Faro
– Fuerteventura
– Geneva
– Gibraltar
– Glasgow
–  Gran Canaria  
(Las Palmas)
– Grenoble
– Hamburg
– Helsinki
– Hurghada
– Ibiza
– Innsbruck
– Inverness
–  Istanbul - Sabiha 
Gökcen
– Jersey
– Kittila
– Krakow
– Kuusamo
– La Rochelle
– Lamezia
–  Lanzarote 
(Arrecife)
– Lisbon
– Liverpool
– Ljubljana
– London Gatwick
– London Luton
– London Stansted
– Lyon
–  Madeira (Funchal)
– Madrid
– Majorca (Palma)
– Malaga
– Malta
– Manchester
– Marrakech
–  Marseille 
(Provence)
–  Menorca (Mahon)
– Milan Linate
– Milan Malpensa
– Montpellier
– Munich
– Murcia
– Mykonos
– Nantes
– Naples
– Newcastle
– Nice
– Olbia (Sardinia)
– Palermo (Sicily)
–  Paris Charles de 
Gaulle
– Paris Orly
– Pisa (Tuscany)
– Porto
– Prague
– Rhodes
– Rome Ciampino
– Rome Fiumicino
– Rovaniemi
– Salzburg
– Santorini
– Sharm El Sheikh
– Sofia
– Split
–  Stockholm 
(Arlanda)
– Tallin
– Tangier
– Tenerife South
– Thessoloniki
– Toulouse
– Turin
– Valencia
–  Venice Marco 
Polo
– Vienna
– Warsaw
– Zurich
We are present in 37 of the  
top 50 European airports and  
289 million people live within  
60 minutes drive from an airport 
served by easy Jet.
We have presence on 45 of the 
top 1 00 European routes, more 
than any other carrier .
422 routes, 1 14 airports,  
27 countries.
Over 52 million
seats flown
+1 .8%
Seats flown million
34.7
05 06 07 08 09
38.9
44.5
51.9
52.8
Consistently 
high load
+1 .4PPT
Load factor %
85.2
05 06 07 08 09
84.8
83.7
84.1
85.5
Present on the most 
top 100 European routes
45 top routes
Presence on top 100 routes
11
easyJet
BA
Ryanair
Lufthansa-Swiss
Air France-KLM
Alitalia
Iberia
Air Berlin
SAS
Vueling
12
15
16
19
23
27
29
36
45 Annual report and accounts 2009 03 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
6.5% market share.
45 million passengers.
1 8 1 aircraft situated in 20 bases.
50% of passengers originate 
outside the UK.
Focused on European
short-haul aviation
+1 3.9%
Non-UK passengers million
10.1
12.9
15.7
19.7
22.4
05 06 07 08 09
Increasing easyJet’s 
geographic diversity
Passengers by country
UK 50%
Italy 12%
France 11%
Spain 7%
Switzerland 7%
Other Europe 13%
1.8%
Capacity growth at bases*
0.9
(3.1)
(23.1)
(8.4)
1.8
16.3
29.8
77.6
UK Regions
Germany
London
Switzerland
Spain
France
Italy
Total
*Measured in seats ﬂown. 04 easyJet plc
q
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that your Company has delivered a resilient 
performance in what has been one of the most challenging trading 
environments for many years. Weak consumer confidence, combined  
with fuel and currency volatility, has made for an uncertain business climate  
in general this year, but especially so for airlines. 
Against this backdrop, easyJet is one of the few airlines anywhere to remain 
profitable this year with underlying pre-tax profits of £44 million, compared  
to £123 million last year. These results were driven primarily through good 
revenue performance offsetting the £86 million unit increase in fuel costs and 
£31 million reduction in interest income. We also took advantage of capacity 
cuts by other carriers to advance our position in the European short-haul 
market, gaining share in important markets such as Milan, Paris, Madrid and 
London Gatwick and increasing our slot portfolio at congested airports  
by over 10%. 
Business model and strategy
In a tough economic environment, easyJet’s continued resilient performance is 
a testament to the quality of its business model. Europe’s premier air transport 
network, our strong customer proposition and service delivery are linked to a 
highly efficient operating model that is predicated on simplicity and low cost.
As part of the annual strategy process, easyJet’s Board has agreed a fleet plan 
that will enable your Company to deliver growth of around 7.5% per annum
1
 
over the next five years. This fleet plan gives easyJet the ability to take 
advantage of the substantial commercial opportunities apparent in European 
short-haul aviation, whilst maximising margins and delivering positive cash 
generation beyond the period of the higher than normal capital expenditure 
associated with the replacement of the more expensive Boeing subfleet.  
The plan nevertheless retains sufficient in-built flexibility to allow a slowing  
of growth should our margins come under pressure.
Whilst some of our strategic debate during the past 12 months was perhaps a 
little too public, I believe that the subject matter and intensity of the discussion 
around the most appropriate rate of growth for the Company evidences the 
commitment of individual Board members to the Company’s cause. I am pleased 
to report that the whole Board believes we have come to a sensible outcome.
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
Annual report and accounts 2009
In a tough economic 
environment, our resilient 
performance is a testament  
to the quality of our  
business model. 05 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Board
At easyJet we believe that good corporate governance is vital. At the heart  
of this is a strong Board team who both support and challenge the executive 
management so that together, we can unlock easyJet’s huge potential, whilst 
appropriately managing the risks associated with operating in such a volatile 
industry. easyJet is an exciting business that readily attracts talent and hence  
I am pleased to report on how we have been able to further strengthen the 
Board in the past year.
Sir Michael Rake was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director in June. Mike is an experienced international business leader and  
is currently Chairman of BT Group plc prior to which he was Chairman  
of KPMG International.
Keith Hamill joined the Board in February. Keith’s background as Chairman  
of Travelodge and Chairman of Go Fly! Ltd, prior to its acquisition by easyJet  
in 2002, is highly relevant and I have welcomed his robust and analytical 
approach to the assessment of risk in our Board discussions.
Bob Rothenberg MBE, senior partner in the accountancy firm of Blick 
Rothenberg, was appointed to the easyJet Board as a Non Executive Director 
with effect from 1 August 2009. His appointment was made under the terms 
of the Company’s Articles giving Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the Company’s 
founder, nominee director appointment rights on behalf of himself and 
easyGroup Holdings Limited, his private investment vehicle and a shareholder 
in easyJet plc. Bob’s appointment was formally endorsed by the members of 
the Company’s Nominations Committee and he brings valuable financial 
advisory and general business experience.
Sir Colin Chandler stepped down earlier in the year as Chairman after seven 
years service to the Company. We thank him for his significant contribution 
throughout his tenure, as he chaired the organisation during the period which 
saw easyJet achieve its current leading position in the European market.  
Jeff Carr, our Group Finance Director since 2005, also left to take on a larger 
challenge and we thank him too for his contribution. Whilst we complete  
the search process for Jeff’s successor, we are very pleased that Mark Adams 
has joined us on an interim basis as Chief Financial Officer. Mark has held a 
number of senior financial positions across a range of sectors and we welcome 
his contribution during this interim period. 
People
It has been a challenging year for easyJet’s people. I have spent a lot of time in 
the past few months with the easyJet senior management population and can 
testify to their exceptional level of passion for and belief in easyJet. In a tough 
industry this level of engagement is a real differentiator to the performance of 
the business. The commitment and enthusiasm of our crew continues to be a 
key driver of our successful customer proposition and the whole Board is 
grateful for the continued professionalism and commitment of all our people.
Industry regulation
The regulatory framework we operate in is crucial, as alongside ensuring that 
we can operate in a safe environment, it has a significant effect on both our cost 
base and the opportunities available for future growth. We are working across 
Europe to persuade governments and the European Commission to deliver 
regulation that provides stability, is sensible and allows us to compete fairly. 
easyJet was born out of the liberalisation brought about by EU open skies 
and has been at the forefront of promoting fair competition for the benefit of 
consumers. We continue in that spirit with our campaign to ensure that local 
airport monopolies are not able to capture monopoly rents. We also need  
to ensure that easyJet continues to operate on a level cost playing field with 
legacy European carriers absent protectionist measures imposed by national 
governments. We have also committed to a greater focus on the remaining 
structural inefficiencies, such as the management of airspace and its associated 
charging mechanisms.
We know it is important that our industry addresses its wider responsibilities, 
in particular to ensure we play our part in tackling climate change. We have 
now taken the first steps towards aviation’s entry into the European Emissions 
Trading System, where we will operate within a system that caps overall CO2
2
 
emissions, ensuring they are put on a downwards path towards agreed 
targets. However, environmental measures must deliver real gains in 
environmental efficiency, and cannot be used as a way to simply tax 
passengers and so we are continuing to work for the reform of UK Air 
Passenger Duty (APD) to operate as a genuine incentive to drive 
environmental change rather than the current blunt instrument to swell 
Government coffers.
Conclusion
As easyJet navigates what is still an uncertain and difficult landscape, I am 
confident that easyJet’s strengths will continue to prevail and that it will 
emerge as a clear winner in European short-haul aviation. I would also like in 
particular to thank Andy Harrison and his executive team for so successfully 
managing the Company during such a challenging year.
Note 1: Measured in seats flown.  
Note 2: Carbon dioxide.
Annual report and accounts 2009
Sir David Michels 
Non Executive Interim Chairman 06 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
We believe people make  
the difference. It’s through 
the efforts of all our people  
to deliver our four strategic 
priorities that we will realise 
our vision: to become the 
best low fares airline in  
the world.
BUSINESS REVIEW
STRA TEGY AND KPIs Financial KPIs
+12.9%
Total revenue 
£ million
(
64.5
)
%
Proﬁt before tax 
(underlying) £ million
(
14.6
)
%
Earnings per share 
(basic) pence
(
42.6
)
%
Cash ﬂow from 
operations £ million
(
1.3
)
PPT
Return on equity 
%
+8.9PPT
Gearing 
%
1,341
05 07 08 09 06
1,620
1,787
2,363
2,667
14.8
05 06
23.2
07
36.6
08
19.8
09
16.9
221
05 06
222
07
261
08
292
09
168
7.1
05 06
10.1
07
14.3
08
6.8
09
5.5
32.5
05 06
31.0
07
20.4
08
28.7
09
37.6
08 09 05
83
06
129
07
191
123
44 Annual report and accounts 2009 07 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
easyJet people make the difference
Strategic KPIs
1
3
SAFETY IS OUR  
NO. 1 PRIORITY
Composite risk value (CRV) index
2007
0.8 boundary
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.1
1.0
0.625
2008 2009
� The Composite risk value index is an internal benchmark 
 to monitor the average risk value per sector ﬂown over time.
� It is calculated by assigning a numerical weighting to every 
 safety occurrence report received. The total weighting for 
 the period is then normalised by the number of sectors 
 ﬂown in the period.
� Management sets a nominal boundary of 0.8 which 
 assists monitoring of performance over time.
We will never compromise our commitment 
to safety, which is always the first priority for 
all of our people.
DEVELOP A WINNING 
CUSTOMER PROPOSITION
On time
performance* %
79.5%
75.4%
76.7%
09 08 07
88.8%
89.5%
91.4%
09 08 07
Likely to recommend 
%
*Arrival within 15 minutes of scheduled arrival time.
We are continuing to refine our winning 
proposition to a wide range of business 
and leisure customers.
2
DELIVER LOW COST AND 
MAXIMISE MARGINS
4
Revenue
per seat
50.47
45.51
40.42
34.37
29.49
26.55
0.83
2.37
4.30
09 08 07
Cost ex fuel
per seat
09 08 07
Profit before 
tax per seat*
09 08 07
*Underlying.
*
BUILD EUROPE’S No. 1 AIR 
TRANSPORT NETWORK
Airports where we are 
No.1 or No.2 airline
18
09
16
08
15
07
Presence on top 100 routes
(ranked by primary airport)
11
Vueling
SAS
12 Air Berlin
15
Iberia
16
Alitalia
19
Air France-KLM
23
Lufthansa-Swiss
27
BA
29
Ryanair
36
easyJet
45
Non-primary airports
Number of market pairs operated 
between two primary airports
We are focusing on improving our routes, 
slots and bases to build on our leading 
presence across Europe.
We are improving revenue and managing 
costs in order to enhance our reputation as 
Europe’s most efficient airline. 08 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
REVIEW OF STRA TEGY
1 Safety is our No. 1 priority
Throughout the organisation – from the boardroom to our crew, 
engineering and ground staff – the first priority for all of our people  
is the pursuit of safety in all they do, for the benefit of customers,  
colleagues and shareholders.
Safety: part of our DNA
Safety underpins everything we do. The organisation 
is structured to focus on safety issues at all levels, 
and it is the first agenda item at every Board 
meeting. Our safety culture positively encourages 
the reporting of all safety-related incidents and 
events, through a range of reporting tools, no 
matter how minor they may seem. These reports 
are assessed and categorised, with risk values 
assigned and aggregated to form our Composite 
risk value (CRV) index. This process allows safety 
trends to be identified and corrective action 
implemented, as part of our Safety Management 
System (SMS). Our CRV index showed a steady 
improvement for the year under review as illustrated 
on page 7. However, we are not complacent about 
safety issues and continue to exercise vigilance in 
order to continuously improve our safety performance. 
As part of the feedback process to our crew,  
we launched a new regular safety bulletin during 
the year. This highlights and encourages best 
practice, thus keeping our flight and cabin crews 
fully engaged with safety improvement initiatives. 
New Safety Management System
In our industry, risk is unavoidable. The key lies  
in how this risk is identified and managed in a 
transparent manner. 
2009 saw the introduction of a new Safety 
Management System, which provides a framework 
for managing the two pillars of safety performance 
and safety compliance at easyJet. Adopted by  
the European Aviation Safety Agency’s European 
Commercial Aviation Safety Team with our active 
support, the SMS is a continuous improvement 
process. It focuses on identifying hazards, assessing 
the risks associated with those hazards, managing 
these risks and then ensuring that any changes have 
had the desired impact.
3.5 years
the average age of our fleet
We believe in the importance of a young 
and reliable fleet, which leads to lower 
maintenance and network disruption costs. 
We currently fly 181 aircraft, with 35  
new Airbus A320 family aircraft joining the 
fleet during the year, as part of our plan to 
operate an Airbus-only fleet from 2012.  Annual report and accounts 2009 09 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Engi neering
Improving our engineering function
Following the consolidation of easyTech and  
GB Airways into the easyJet engineering function,  
we insourced some of our technical services during 
2009. This has given us more internal capacity and 
control to ensure the safety and reliability of our 
growing fleet.
Rigorous safety processes
Andy Harrison, Chief Executive Officer, and 
Operations Director, Cor Vrieswijk, are 
responsible for all aspects of safety delivery, 
including our compliance obligations under the  
Air Operators Certificate (AOC). Andy Harrison, 
the Accountable Safety Executive, chairs our Safety 
Review Board. The Safety Review Board meets 
monthly to assess reports from the Safety Action 
Groups we have established across the business. 
This review and assessment process delivers 
monthly reports to both the UK Civil Aviation 
Authority (UK CAA) and the easyJet Board. Our 
Director of Safety and Security, Captain Dave Prior, 
reports directly to the Board independently of the 
Operations Director.
Our window on the operational 
world – monitoring every second  
of every flight 
Flight management data recorded during 98%  
of our flights is sent via a GPRS link direct to our 
Luton base as soon as the aircraft has touched 
down. Several thousand megabytes of data are 
transmitted per flight, and all are analysed and fed 
into the SMS within 24 hours. 
Approval for our training 
qualification
During the year, we became only the second UK 
airline to be granted approval for managing our 
in-house pilot training to ensure it meets our 
specific training requirements. 
Under the Alternative Training Quality Programme 
(ATQP), we are now allowed to tailor one of the 
two mandatory annual flight simulator sessions to 
match our own training needs identified through 
the SMS and the specific circumstances of our routes. 
During 2009, our pilots undertook around 15,000 
hours of simulator training, with the prime focus  
on practising realistic scenarios. 
Sessions are carried out in real time, with three 
levels of threat introduced during the flight, to provide 
valuable data on our pilots’ operational management 
skills. In addition, the tailored sessions enable us to 
increase pilot familiarity with new airports, which 
are continually added to the network. 
The excellence in service displayed by easyJet  
cabin crew has its roots in the Academy, easyJet’s 
dedicated aircrew training facility at Luton. It’s here 
that cabin crew learn advanced first aid and how  
to handle emergency situations. The syllabus 
covers all aspects of the regulatory requirements 
plus those elements of crew resource management 
that make our cabin crew stand out from the 
crowd. The technical training is enhanced through 
the use of a dedicated cabin simulator and fire 
fighting module.
Leading the way in  
fatigue management
As we seek to optimise the use of our assets,  
we need to be able to monitor and manage  
crew performance effectively, ensuring that our 
crew remain sufficiently alert at all times. In 2006, 
we adopted an innovative approach, with the 
introduction of a Fatigue Risk Management System 
(FRMS) in conjunction with the UK CAA, to assess 
the potential risks of pilot fatigue based on intensive 
scheduling practices. This pioneering work has led to 
easyJet being at the forefront of crew performance 
management, in the pursuit of operational safety. 
The FRMS enables us to monitor and understand 
the relationships between rostering, operational 
variables, crew performance and workload, 
allowing procedures to be implemented or 
strengthened.
As part of our continuous improvement 
programme, we are working with the UK CAA, 
the International Civil Aviation Organisation 
(ICAO), the International FRMS forum and 
organisations such as Imperial College London,  
City University London and most recently NASA, 
to further improve our understanding of fatigue.  
This will allow us to develop more flexible roster 
patterns and operational procedures to support 
our expansion while also retaining the focus on 
operational safety. Our work in the field of fatigue 
has now gained worldwide recognition as industry 
best practice and has inspired the introduction of 
similar programmes across other airlines, with the 
approval of the regulators. 10 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
Shaping the network
Almost 300 million potential passengers live within 
an hour of airports served by easyJet. But to win 
their business, we need to continually manage and 
fine-tune our network. Put simply, we must give 
customers the opportunity to fly where they want, 
when they want.
There is significant scope to drive performance 
forwards in three specific areas – routes, slots  
and bases. One of easyJet’s strengths is its flexibility 
in asset allocation; we can and do move aircraft 
around our network to ensure we are generating 
the best possible return on our investments. 
Route management
Schedule quality is vital. Since 2006 we have 
strengthened our position at London Gatwick, 
Paris, Milan and Madrid by a combined total of  
seven million departing seats. At London Gatwick, 
we have increased our share of short-haul flights to 
Europe and have significantly higher load factors 
than our competitors.
While we continue to build frequency and stability 
on our core routes, we also remain alert to 
opportunities to refresh the route mix and offer 
more choice. Market intelligence through customer 
research, together with insight from regional 
managers and a team of European market 
managers, helps us to identify those opportunities.
For example, we announced the launch of 
Düsseldorf flights during 2009, with daily return 
flights from Rome, Basel and London. As business 
demand falls away through the summer months, 
we actively manage our schedule and move assets 
onto leisure routes. We increased capacity into 
several destinations including Turkey, Morocco and 
Croatia, where we fly into Dubrovnik from five 
airports across the continent.
Pan-European strength
easyJet has a leading presence on Europe’s top  
100 routes, with increasingly strong positions in  
the key markets including London Gatwick, Milan, 
Geneva and Paris. We focus on the routes our 
customers find the most attractive, at convenient 
times of the day, concentrating our efforts on the 
most popular destinations and departure points 
together with the routes that have the strongest 
business links.
Customer and geographic diversity are core 
easyJet advantages. We serve a broad a mix of 
leisure and business travellers, and for the first time 
this year saw half of our customers drawn from 
outside the UK. Furthermore, nearly 40% of flights 
did not touch the UK during 2009, reflecting an 
increase of 16% in the number of our mainland 
European routes.
REVIEW OF STRA TEGY cONTINuED
2 Build Europe’ s No. 1  
air transport network
We aim to fly the right routes at the right times to meet  
the demands of our broad customer base. Last year  
we flew 45.2 million customers on over 400 routes linking  
1 14 airports, giving us a 6.5% share of the European market.
18%
increase in Paris 
seat capacity
Our seat capacity at  
Paris has increased  
by 18% since 2008.
N o .1
We are the  
leading airline at:
London Gatwick, Milan  
Malpensa and Geneva.
39
Number of routes  
between primary airports
We fly 39 routes between primary  
airports across Europe. Our nearest 
competitor is British Airways, with 29. Annual report and accounts 2009 11 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Slot management
Departure time is important to all our customers,  
but particularly those on business trips and 
weekend breaks.
Unlike some competitors, who use smaller,  
more remote, and much less convenient airports,  
over 90% of easyJet aircraft operate into and  
out of congested airports. At these busy facilities,  
where slots are at a premium, we work hard  
to build our portfolio across Europe. Our slot 
management team has considerable capability  
and expertise, with over 60 years of combined 
experience and extensive contacts at  
European airports.
Base management
Overnight stops create unnecessary costs.  
By managing the bases where we locate crew  
and aircraft, we are able to improve efficiency  
and maximise revenue. During summer 2009,  
we flew over 1,000 sectors daily and only five 
aircraft were located overnight at locations  
other than our bases.
Base location is constantly under review.  
For example, we have increased the number of 
aircraft based in Italy from three to 16 since 2006  
and in France from 1 1 to 14 in the last 12 months. 
At the same time, we have reduced capacity at 
under-performing bases such as Luton.
39
Gatwick
12
Stansted
6
Newcastle
3
East 
Midlands
6
Belfast 
International
11
3
Bristol
Rome 
Fiumicino
2
Lyon
6
Madrid
6
Paris 
charles de Gaulle
6
Paris 
Orly
9
Liverpool
4
Edinburgh
4
Glasgow
8
Geneva
4
Basel
3
Manchester
16
Luton
13
Milan 
Malpensa
9
Berlin
Number of aircraft by base 12 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
3 Develop a winning  
customer proposition
easyJet’s network, great schedule and industry-leading 
distribution via easyJet.com appeals to a broad base  
of both business and leisure customers. The easyJet 
brand has pan-European reach and appeal throughout 
27 countries. New initiatives are continuing to strengthen 
our position as both a leading airline and an innovative 
e-commerce business.
REVIEW OF STRA TEGY cONTINuED
£9
per bag
We only charge £9 each way for  
a 20kg piece of hold luggage. Ryanair  
charges £1 15 for the same luggage.
Bon appetit
croissant et café
Our inflight catering is now based on regional 
preferences. Our customers can buy the food and 
drink they prefer – with a greater choice of produce 
sourced to cater for local tastes.
understanding our customers
We work hard to get close to our customers, 
listening to their needs and evolving our schedule 
and services to match. During the year, we 
aggregated all our customer data into a single 
location to give us a fast and intelligent view on 
emerging trends in customer travelling habits. 
easyJet is leading the way within the airline industry 
on its use of social media to drive customer 
engagement and improve the customer 
experience – since its launch six months ago,  
@easyJetcare on Twitter has proactively assisted 
thousands of customers. easyJet also developed 
the first airline iPhone application in Europe, 
providing customers with real time data on the 
arrivals and departures for flights to and from  
our Swiss airports.
Ensuring that our customers arrive at their 
destination on time is key to delivery of a winning 
customer proposition, and at easyJet we continually 
measure on time performance. In the year, our on 
time performance (measured as percentage of 
flights arriving within 15 minutes of scheduled 
arrival time) improved from 75.4% to 79.5%.
The result? Continued strong appeal across the 
four key customer groups: business people; 
holidaymakers; customers visiting friends and 
relatives; and second home owners. In fact, nearly 
90% of customers surveyed during the year would 
recommend easyJet to a friend. Annual report and accounts 2009 13 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Improving our communications
The better we understand our customers,  
the more accurately we can target our 
communications. For example, with our new 
customer database in place, we are now able to 
tailor marketing emails to reflect the purchasing 
patterns and preferences of individual customers.
To support a renewed focus on business travel,  
we launched an online campaign targeted at 
finance directors. “Keep the FD happy” is an 
interactive video that takes a light-hearted look  
at how easyJet can save a company money in  
these tough times – but also highlights the serious 
business benefits of flying with easyJet, such  
as no weight restrictions on hand baggage and  
the ability to book through their preferred travel 
management channel. See the campaign at  
http://www.keepthefdhappy.com/
Our iconic Objects campaign continues to run 
across Europe, adapted to the needs of different 
markets. The campaign uses iconic orange 
“Objects” to represent the destinations to which 
we fly or the type of trip customers are taking.  
It delivers an energetic, exciting evocation of the 
travel possibilities we provide and a clear focus  
on the low price of the flight. Each easyJet 
campaign runs across a broad variety of both 
online and offline media.
Our public stance on climate change, such as 
signing the Copenhagen Communiqué, sends  
out an important message. Environmental matters  
are important to us, as they are to our customers. 
We have integrated a carbon calculator and 
offsetting facility into our online reservation system, 
with all investments made exclusively in United 
Nations-certified offset projects. Since the  
scheme was launched, easyJet customers have  
to date offset over 194 million Kg of CO2. 
Enhancing easyJet .com
As the UK’s most visited airline site, easyJet.com 
remains our primary distribution channel and in  
the last year we have commenced a major rebuild 
and refresh. We consulted with our customers, 
identifying what was and what was not liked about 
the existing site, and also looked at a wide range of 
top sites, both inside and outside the travel sector. 
We have concentrated our initial energy on the 
most important section: the booking funnel, where 
five pages are responsible for delivering around  
£2 billion in revenue. The site is built on a more 
robust and scalable platform and is even easier  
to use, with a wider template and a basket that  
is visible at all times. 
Building our appeal to  
business travellers
In a tough economic environment, we have 
increased our share of the business travel market in 
the past year. We recognise that the business travel 
segment, where revenue per seat can be around 
20% higher than average, has different booking 
requirements to other markets. In particular, large 
corporates have strict travel management policies 
in place and manage their travel requirements 
through agents who often book through the 
industry’s Global Distribution Systems (GDS)  
such as Amadeus and Galileo. 
Last year we made our schedule available via  
the GDS and other aggregator systems, so we  
are now listed in agents’ search results alongside  
other carriers. By the end of the year, around  
15% of business seats were already being booked 
through this channel.
Business travellers, as well as leisure customers,  
are also benefiting from our winning customer 
experience initiatives. These include the ability  
to check in online up to 60 days before a flight,  
the opportunity to take an earlier flight for free,  
an inflight magazine that is as good a read as it is  
a promotional tool, and regionalised food and  
drink menus. Speedy Boarding remains an attractive 
customer proposition and we have been working 
hard to improve delivery across the network.  
In addition, this was the first full year for easyJet Plus!, 
an annual Speedy Boarding pass. With over 20,000 
members across Europe, the card has quickly become 
a popular feature with easyJet’s frequent travellers.
1 1 months
schedule online
We now release our flight schedule up  
to 1 1 months in advance, so customers  
can plan and book well ahead.
Winners!
and the winner is...
easyJet has won a number of industry 
awards in the year, including Best European 
Budget Airline (World Traveller Awards), 
Best Airline Website (Travolution) and the 
Condé Nast Traveller Best Low Cost Airline 
award (for the 6th consecutive year).
Over £2m
in easyJet Plus! subscriptions
More than 20,000 customers have chosen 
to pay around £100 each for easyJet Plus!,  
our annual Speedy Boarding pass. 14 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
Improving yield
Through this recessionary period, our superior 
network and competitive fares have enabled us  
to win market share and drive the best revenue 
performance of any European airline. Over the 
past year, we have grown the number of business 
passengers in spite of an overall decline in the 
business travel market.
Our unique revenue management system delivers 
transparent and simple pricing for our customers 
while, at the same time, enabling us to capture the 
maximum yield available in the market for each 
route. Our aim is to be significantly cheaper than 
our direct competitors on each route, thereby 
allowing us to take market share.
Driving ancillary revenues
We see a number of opportunities to drive 
continued growth in ancillary revenues by 
introducing initiatives that add value to our 
customer proposition.
In-flight services continue to deliver improving 
revenue. The year saw wastage of fresh food 
halved and the introduction of new localised  
food and drink choices which better match the 
expectations of customers on different routes.  
For 2010, the emphasis will be on fresh food, 
including a key country-specific bistro offering.
We have also expanded the number of partners 
we work with to provide customers with services 
including car hire, hotel rooms, coach and rail travel 
and insurance. Agreements with new partners 
such as Mondial Assistance and Laterooms.com, 
together with renewed focus on long-term 
partnerships with companies including Europcar 
and Gatwick Express, will drive revenue through 
easyJet.com
Customers of all airlines now accept that bag 
charges are inevitable and during the year we 
increased our “first bag” charges to £9. However, 
we are committed to ensuring that our charges 
remain competitive and support a strong customer 
proposition. Therefore we recognise that future 
opportunities to increase revenue in this area may 
be limited.
REVIEW OF STRA TEGY cONTINuED
4 Deliver low cost and 
maximise margins
easyJet’s strategy is growth with margin improvement 
and therefore the management team continually focuses 
its efforts on all three drivers of margin: yield, ancillaries 
and cost, with the aim of achieving a 15% return on equity 
in the medium-term.
78%
Independent research*  
proves that
we are the best value carrier  
on 78% of all business itineraries  
surveyed. Business travellers can  
make savings of over £100 on  
almost half of all occasions.
*  ITM Research Fare Study  
June-August 2008. Annual report and accounts 2009 15 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Managing costs
It is vital that easyJet aggressively manages its cost 
base so that it can continue to offer competitive 
fares profitably. easyJet aims to deliver at least  
£190 million of cost reduction initiatives by the end 
of financial year 2012; this will enable us to offset 
inflationary pressures and deliver a £1 per seat 
benefit to the bottom line at current exchange 
rates. There are clear opportunities in the  
following areas:
Efficient fleet management
Aircraft ownership costs on aircraft is expected to 
fall by £30 million per annum by the end of financial 
year 2012, driven by the exit of our non-core fleet 
of Boeing 737-700s and GB Airways aircraft.
The easyJet A320 family of aircraft are cheaper  
to own and operate and the fleet rationalisation 
programme will also remove the need for the 
additional Boeing-specific training that we  
currently carry out. 
Leverage scale and recession to deliver 
procurement efficiencies
Safety is always our No.1 priority and we  
will never compromise that commitment.
In the last 12 months we have seen a successful 
renegotiation of our maintenance contract  
with SR Technics, a world-class provider.  
The new arrangement is for 1 1 years and will 
generate savings of around £35 million. We will 
also maintain our policy of leveraging our scale and 
buying power to challenge airports on the charges 
they levy and aim to deliver savings of £60 million.
Systems implementation to drive efficiency
Fuel remains a major cost. We have targeted  
a 3% improvement in fuel burn, some of which  
has already been delivered during the year under 
review and a further £20 million will be delivered 
by 2012. However, there remains room for further 
improvement, specifically through pilot technique 
and a new fuel reporting system.
We have also set ourselves a goal of a 10% 
improvement in crew efficiency, which will be 
delivered through route and crew optimisation 
tools and a new rostering system that goes live in 
the coming year. These initiatives will deliver savings 
of £35 million by 2012.
Fuel management system – case study
Fuel efficiency is very important to us at easyJet. It is our largest single cost and 
also the most volatile. During 2009, we have made significant improvements to 
our fuel efficiency, saving 1.2% of all the fuel we burn. We have achieved this 
through the implementation of a new flight planning system, together with a 
focus on fuel conservation both in the air and on the ground. Due to the high 
number of sectors we operate each day, even a small fuel saving per flight adds 
up to big financial gains.
The new flight planning system optimises every flight based on route, payload, 
weather and fuel. It was introduced during the year, reaching full capability 
towards the end of the period. This means we are well positioned in 2010  
to receive the full year benefit of having the system in place plus identify other 
areas of additional savings.
Fuel conservation in the air has been achieved through successful engagement 
with our flight crews on a range of initiatives to optimise operating procedures. 
On the ground, we have successfully reduced our reliance on auxiliary power 
units in favour of ground power and operated an optimised aircraft schedule.
We remain firmly committed to fuel efficiency and have a range of further  
initiatives in the pipeline for 2010, across all areas of our business from  
engineering to flight operations. 16 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
Chief exe Cutive’s st a tement
introduction
This has been an important year for easyJet. The business has traded resiliently 
during a recession and easyJet was one of the few airlines globally to make a 
profit this year with an underlying pre-tax profit of £43.7 million. Revenue 
grew by 12.9% to £2,666.8 million, this strong performance partially offsetting 
the £30.5 million reduction in interest income and the £86.1 million increase 
in unit fuel costs (equivalent to £1.63 per seat).
We have strengthened the fundamentals of the business, with improvements 
in network quality, lower cost deals with key suppliers and enhancements to 
easyJet.com giving easyJet a great platform for profitable growth in the 
medium-term from which to achieve a 15% return on equity. The Board has 
also agreed a fleet plan which will deliver around a 7.5% growth per annum in 
seats flown over the next five years. This fleet plan will enable easyJet to grow 
its share of the European short-haul market from around 7% to 10%.
Our people
We have outstanding people, including our front line cabin crew and pilots 
who are highly trained and professional. They all make a crucial contribution  
to our success and help to create an easyJet personality which is an important 
competitive advantage. I would like to thank them all for helping to deliver 
such a resilient performance in very difficult economic circumstances. We aim 
to have an open and egalitarian environment where everyone is valued for 
their contribution to easyJet. We consider it important to protect and develop 
this culture as the airline grows into a large pan-European business. Balancing 
the imperative for cost efficiency and supporting our culture in a pressurised 
and uncertain economic climate has been particularly challenging in 2009.
m arketplace review 
easyJet operates the leading network in European short-haul aviation, 
measured by presence on the top 100 routes. Around 200 carriers compete 
in the European short-haul market and the top five players, including easyJet, 
account for around 60% of seats flown with the rest of the market being 
highly fragmented. 
Whilst the average growth of the market over the past 20 years or so has 
been 4.5% per annum, in the past year overall capacity in the European 
short-haul market shrank by around 5% as airlines sought to mitigate losses 
driven by higher fuel costs and falling demand. easyJet continued its strategy  
of carefully targeting growth in markets from which weaker competitors are 
retreating in this period of recession. Thus easyJet is building strong, 
defendable market positions that will ensure it is well positioned for profitable 
growth once the European economy improves. 
Consequently, easyJet gained market share in the year and passenger numbers 
grew by 3.4% to 45.2 million and load factor improved by 1.4 percentage 
points to 85.5%. easyJet strengthened its position in a number of valuable 
markets including Paris, London Gatwick, Milan and Madrid, increasing its slots 
at constrained airports by over 10% in the year.
Regulatory update
In March 2009, the UK Competition Commission confirmed that BAA would 
be required to sell a number of its airports. Whilst easyJet welcomes the 
break-up of BAA and the recently confirmed sale of Gatwick, the London 
airports will continue to be monopolies, regardless of who owns them, due to 
the lack of spare capacity in the market. The sale highlights the need for tough 
and effective airport regulation to protect airlines and passengers from the 
new owners exploiting their market power.
easyJet continues to advocate the immediate reform of UK Air Passenger 
Duty (APD), which taxes passengers rather than flights, into an emissions-
based tax, and the phasing out of APD when aviation joins the European 
Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) in 2012. easyJet was an early advocate of 
aviation’s entry into the EU ETS as an international, market-based solution to 
ensuring aviation addresses its climate change responsibilities. We now look to 
andrew harrison 
Chief Executive
t his is an exceptionally 
resilient performance, which 
is a tribute to the strength  
of our business model and 
the quality of our people  
and our network. Annual report and accounts 2009 17 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
the Copenhagen Climate Summit in December to produce a sensible global 
agreement on aviation and climate change. Such a global agreement should 
recognise efficiency standards for aircraft, with the emphasis on planes utilising 
modern, more environmentally friendly technology.
Business performance
easyJet delivered a resilient performance in a tough and uncertain macro 
economic environment this year by continuing to focus on the four themes  
we outlined in the Interim report:
    Development of Europe’s No.1 air transport network q
Focus on margins through driving revenue and managing costs q
Management of cash, capital expenditure and fleet q
Mitigation of risk from volatility of fuel prices and currency rates q
Development of europe’ s no. 1 air transport network
easyJet’s unique differentiator is its network, with a leading presence on the 
top 100 routes in Europe and positions at primary airports that are attractive 
to time sensitive consumers. easyJet’s network has appeal across a broad 
range of European consumers both leisure and business. Additionally, half  
of easyJet’s passengers now originate from outside of the UK. This balanced 
revenue base has protected easyJet from the worst effects of recession and 
allowed us to win share from higher cost competitors. 
easyJet continued to actively manage its network by optimising routes. During 
the past year, 28 underperforming routes were closed and 70 new routes 
were launched. easyJet’s presence on the top 100 routes increased by six 
following our entry onto routes such as Rome to Milan and Paris to Barcelona.
Overall, easyJet’s capacity (measured in seats flown) grew by 1.8% during the 
year, with an increase of 16% in mainland Europe, focused on France (up 30%), 
Italy (up 78%) and Spain (up 16%). easyJet’s capacity at Gatwick grew by 12%, 
partly driven by the full year effect of the GB Airways acquisition on 31 January 
2008. Capacity was reduced in weaker performing markets such as Luton and 
the UK regions.
uK
At Gatwick, easyJet is now the leading airline with 39 based aircraft and a 30% 
share of the airport’s passengers and we continue to leverage that position to 
absorb competitive pressures. Longer sector routes are performing well and 
slots acquired with GB Airways were optimised in the period with business 
orientated routes being allocated to peak slots and leisure routes moved to 
later in the day. We are winning the competitive battle on traditional sun 
routes with excellent load factors, albeit with weaker market pricing. easyJet 
has also benefited from legacy competitor withdrawal on key business routes.
At Belfast, competitors are in retreat and both yields and load factors 
improved towards the latter part of the year. We had a strong performance  
at Manchester, where we now have three aircraft based. In addition, we have 
proactively reduced capacity at other UK bases which deliver below Company 
average margins.
Competitive forces  
acting on the european 
airline industry
internal rivalry
Consolidation over the past year has 
lowered the competitive pressures on 
Europe’s leading airlines. easyJet and 
Ryanair are increasingly dominant on 
short-haul whilst long-haul travel is 
increasingly dominated by just three 
airlines: Air France-KLM, Lufthansa 
and British Airways. Transatlantic joint 
ventures between STAR and Skyteam 
alliance members are also serving to 
reduce internal rivalry.
suppliers
Airports are natural monopolies and, 
despite regulation, have passed on 
higher charges to airlines over the last 
two years. Airlines continue to have 
little control over their fuel costs but 
use hedging tools to lower volatility.
substitutes
High speed train development across 
Europe has strong political backing 
and will continue to replace flights 
with short sector lengths. However 
such development is only 
economically viable on major trunk 
routes under 1,000km that do not 
cross water.
Buyers
Consolidation of the network airlines 
and the demise of the business class 
only start-ups has diminished the 
choice for consumers on long-haul.  
On short-haul easyJet is now providing 
consumers with an alternative to the 
flag carrier at primary airports but the 
reduction in capacity by the tour 
operators and weaker airlines has 
strengthened Ryanair and easyJet’s 
bargaining position with consumers.
new entrants
Access to financing has deteriorated 
substantially over the last year which 
makes it unlikely that we will see many 
new entrants in the medium term.
Source: Deutsche Bank 18 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
easyJet has also leveraged its scale and the recession to renegotiate some key 
contracts with suppliers. Overall capacity in the European short-haul market  
is shrinking and as one of the few carriers in Europe growing capacity, easyJet 
is well placed to secure better terms at airports.
Following a global tendering process, easyJet has selected Zurich-based SR 
Technics for airframe maintenance support of easyJet’s core Airbus fleet for a 
period of 1 1 years. The agreement, valued at more than $1.6 billion, provides 
easyJet with a reduction in maintenance costs (excluding engines) of around 
£175 million over the life of the contract. SR Technics will provide a range of 
services including aircraft maintenance, component repair and overhaul, and 
logistics management for easyJet’s core Airbus fleet. 
A significant portion of our cost base is determined by governments and 
regulatory bodies, in particular, navigation costs and charges at regulated 
airports. We have increased our focus on these costs by constructively 
engaging the governments and regulators that set them. Alongside our work 
at Gatwick and Stansted, areas of particular focus have been the regulatory 
charges at the Paris airports and Amsterdam, UK navigation charges and the 
wider European approach to navigation costs. Looking forward, we will sustain 
this involvement and seek to further develop our influence across Europe.
m anagement of cash, capital expenditure and fleet
f leet plan
easyJet is making good progress towards its goal of operating a common 
aircraft fleet. Eliminating the Boeing and GB Airways sub-fleets will take  
cost out of the business and simplify our operations. 
The intention is to exit all aircraft in the two sub-fleets by 2012 to complete 
the realisation of ownership cost savings of around £40 million per annum.  
12 Boeing 737s and four GB Airways A320s were returned to lessors in the 
past year. The sale of the seven A321s from the GB Airways sub-fleet continues 
to progress with three A321s disposed of in the year with an associated profit 
on disposal of £1 1 million. It is anticipated that the remaining A321s will leave 
the fleet by September 2010. The five A319s previously held for sale have 
been returned to the fleet and will be used to support our mainland 
European expansion plans in 2010.
In the past year, easyJet took delivery of 15 A320 aircraft and 20 A319 aircraft 
under the terms of the Airbus easyJet agreement. Configured with 180 seats, 
the A320 will enable us to increase our capacity at peak times at slot 
constrained airports. Also, the aircraft operates with a cost per seat that is 
around 6% lower than the A319. 
The total fleet at 30 September 2009 comprised 181 aircraft. A further 70 
easyJet specification aircraft deliveries are currently planned for arrival over the 
next three years, a net increase of 26 aircraft over this period giving an expected 
total number of aircraft of 207 by 201 2. easyJet has a high degree of flexibility in 
its fleet planning arrangements and thus is able to manage the total number of 
aircraft in the fleet through a combination of deferrals and lease extensions.
  
Owned
Under 
operating 
lease
Under 
finance 
lease Total
Changes in 
year
Future 
deliveries 
(including 
exercised 
purchase 
rights) 
(note 1)
Un-
exercised 
purchase 
rights 
(note 2)
easyJet 
A320 family 103 46 6 155 35 72 88
Boeing 
737-700 – 17 – 17 ( 12) – –
GB Airways 
A320 family 4 5 – 9 (7) 2 –
107 68 6 181 16 74 88
Note 1:  The 72 future easyJet deliveries are anticipated to be delivered over the next four  
financial years, 27 in 2010, 22 in 201 1, 21 in 2012 and 2 in 2013. 
Note 2: Purchase rights may be taken on any A320 family aircraft and are valid until 2015.
 
Chief exe Cutive’s st a tement CO ntinue D
northern europe
In Germany, we improved the schedule during the year. Additional additional 
capacity has been added on routes to Milan, Copenhagen and Brussels from 
our Berlin base, which has improved our appeal to business travellers.  
We closed the base at Dortmund but profitable routes were retained.  
easyJet celebrated its tenth birthday in Switzerland in the past year where  
we have 12 aircraft based. easyJet’s position improved as competitors came 
off key routes and we expanded flying between Switzerland and the French 
regions and Scandinavia.
southern europe
easyJet has 1 3 based aircraft at Milan and we continue to outperform the 
competition, with significantly stronger load factors. easyJet has opened  
a base at Rome Fiumicino with three aircraft based there operating on both 
intra-European and Italian domestic routes. Madrid delivered improvements 
in load and profitability in the year as competitors continued to retreat and  
we optimised our schedule. easyJet now has 14 aircraft based in France and  
is France’s second largest airline with a 10% market share. France continues to 
be an attractive market for easyJet as low cost carrier penetration is half the 
European average and the market consequently has structurally higher fares.
f ocus on margins through driving revenue  
and managing costs
easyJet’s strategy is growth with margin improvement and therefore the 
management team continually focuses its efforts on all three drivers of  
margin, namely yield, ancillaries and costs. 
Margins in the past two years have been severely impacted by higher fuel 
prices with an aggregate £5.71 (£1.63 in 2009) increase in unit fuel costs,  
albeit profit per seat has only declined by £3.47 due to the strength of the 
revenue performance. 
In the past year, easyJet’s industry leading revenue performance, has been 
driven by proactive aircraft allocation into stronger markets such as Gatwick 
and Milan, and good commercial management especially in pricing, promotion 
and route selection.
In addition, easyJet is benefiting from its efforts to target the business travel 
market with around 15% of business passengers now originating through 
business orientated distribution channels. Business customers tend to book 
later, paying around 20% more than the average fare for their easyJet flights.
Ancillary revenue income grew by 38% to £9.77 per seat. The checked bag 
charge averaged £4.51 per seat, an increase of £1.73 per seat in the year and 
other ancillary revenues grew by £0.97 to £5.26 per seat. Going forward, 
easyJet’s in-flight revenues will benefit from the introduction of electronic 
point of sale equipment onboard and food offerings tailored by market and 
designed to appeal to a broader range of consumers. Improvements in 
website presentation should also result in improved conversion rates for  
car hire and hotels.
It is vital that easyJet aggressively manages its cost base so that it can continue 
to offer competitive fares profitably. Operating costs excluding fuel
6
, per seat 
rose 3.9% at constant currency in the year principally due to increased sector 
length, the planned lower aircraft utilisation over the winter as we mitigated 
margin dilution due to higher fuel costs and price increases at Gatwick which 
have cost around £10 million this year. 
In the second half of the year, we saw improvements in aircraft ownership and 
maintenance costs. easyJet also delivered improvements in its operations 
information technology infrastructure in the year and key systems to support 
the crew efficiency programme have now been implemented. We have now 
reviewed our progress against the £125 million cost savings target identified in 
2008 and believe there is greater potential to take cost out of the business. 
Based on the financial results for the year ended 30 September 2009, we have 
updated our targets and now expect to deliver cost savings of £190 million by 
the end of financial year 2012. After inflation and increases in regulated airport 
charges this will equate to approximately £1 per seat profit improvement. Annual report and accounts 2009 19 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
The total fleet plan over the period to 30 September 2012
3
 is as follows:
At 30 September:
easyJet 
A320  
family
Boeing 
737- 
700
GB  
Airways 
A320  
family
Total 
aircraft
2008 120 29 16 165
2009 155 17 9 181
2010 182 8 2 192
20 11 194 2 – 196
2012 207 – – 207
Note 3: Assumes assets held for sale are sold in financial year 2010.
Cash and capital expenditure
easyJet’s cash and money market deposits as at 30 September 2009 
exceeded £1 billion reflecting continued strong cash flow generation; 
additionally, easyJet has sufficient resources in place, through a combination of 
undrawn committed facilities and surplus cash, to fund future aircraft deliveries 
for at least the next 18 months. In the year, gearing increased from 29% to 
38% reflecting increased debt-financed capital expenditure as we continue 
the replacement of our Boeing sub-fleet.
m itigation of risk from volatility of fuel prices  
and currency rates
easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed by the Board. 
The aim of easyJet’s hedging policy is to reduce short-term earnings volatility 
and therefore the Company hedges forward, on a rolling basis, between 50% 
and 80% of the next 12 months anticipated requirements and between 20% 
and 50% of the following 12 months anticipated requirements. In the past year, 
easyJet’s fuel hedging caused an adverse variance to market rates of around 
£330 million, partially offset by a benefit of around £120 million from its US 
dollar hedging. Details of our current hedging arrangements are shown below: 
Percentage of anticipated requirement hedged
Fuel  
require- 
ment
US dollar  
require- 
ment
euro  
surplus  
sale
6 months ended 31 March 2010 72% 65% 87%
Rate $769/MT $1.78 €1.17
6 months ended 30 September 2010 6 1% 38% 76%
Rate $732/MT $1.64 €1.14
Year ended 30 September 2010 66% 51 % 80%
Rate $750/MT $1.72 €1.15
Year ended 30 September 201 1 22% 20% 35%
Rate $722/MT $1.62 €1.08
andrew harrison 
Chief Executive
Outlook
Whilst economic conditions remain challenging for consumer facing 
businesses and in particular airlines, easyJet’s scale, low cost and highly 
efficient business model and strong financial position will ensure it is  
able to take advantage of the current recessionary period by:
  driving cost out of the business; and  q
    carefully targeting capacity increases and share gains in valuable   q
markets across Europe ensuring that easyJet is well positioned  
to exploit profitable growth opportunities when economic  
conditions improve.
easyJet’s pre tax result in 2010 at current fuel prices
4
 and exchange rates
5
 
will benefit by around £100 million from lower fuel prices as higher price 
fuel hedges roll-off, slightly offset by a strengthening US dollar.
Capacity, measured in seats flown, for both the first half and the full  
year is expected to increase compared to the prior year by around  
10% as easyJet continues with its strategy of carefully targeting growth.  
The current expectation is that competitor capacity on easyJet routes  
will be down by low single digits.
Naturally, the impact of unemployment is expected to lead to some yield 
deterioration over the winter. With over 45% of the available first half seats 
now booked, total revenue per seat at constant currency in the first half of 
the year is expected to decline by a few percentage points compared to the 
prior year.
Total operating costs
6
 per seat, excluding fuel, at constant currency are 
expected to be broadly flat for the full year and up low single digits in the 
first half of the year compared to the prior period. Improvements in 
maintenance, crew and overhead costs will offset the mix impact of  
our continued growth in primary airports.
We expect a reduction in interest income of around £10 million compared 
to the prior year due to continued lower interest rates, which will mainly 
impact the first half result.
We see a tough winter ahead. We are focusing our efforts on further cost 
savings and efficiency programmes, together with optimising route 
profitability and aircraft allocation. We shall also benefit as our fuel hedges 
adjust to market prices. Putting all this together, at current fuel prices
4
 and 
currency rates
5
, we expect easyJet to make substantial profit improvement 
during 2010.
Note 4: US$657 per metric tonne at 13 November 2009.
Note 5: US$1.67/£ and €1.12/£ at 13 November 2009.
Note 6: Excludes interest income. 20 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Reported profit before tax for the year ended 30 September 2009 was  
£54.7 million including £1 1.0 million profit on the disposal of three Airbus 
A321 aircraft, acquired as part of the GB Airways acquisition and sold during 
the year. Excluding this profit on sale, the underlying profit before tax for the 
year was £43.7 million; this compares to an underlying profit before tax in 
2008, excluding the one-off costs associated with the integration of GB 
Airways, of £123.1 million. GB Airways is now fully integrated into the easyJet 
business and therefore its results are not separately identifiable. However, it 
should be noted that the comparative period to these results includes only 
eight months of GB Airways activity.
Results this year have been significantly impacted by the following factors: 
Fuel prices and hedging q
US dollar and euro exchange rates q
Reduction in aircraft utilisation q
Fuel prices and hedging
Total fuel cost amounted to £807.2 million in 2009, an increase of 1 3.9% 
compared to 2008, equating to a cost per seat of £15.28, up £1.63 per seat or 
1 1.9%. The average market price for jet fuel during 2009 was $595 per metric 
tonne (excluding fees and taxes) compared to $1,070 in 2008, driven by the 
extraordinary spike in fuel prices during that year. However, after taking 
account of hedging taken out in 2008 during the period of high fuel prices, 
easyJet’s effective price for 2009 was $951 per metric tonne compared to 
$948 in 2008.
With the effective US dollar price broadly flat for 2009 compared to 2008, 
the increase in fuel cost per seat is largely driven by the strengthening of the 
US dollar against sterling, partly mitigated by US dollar hedging.
Despite the introduction of additional heavier A320 aircraft into the fleet and 
an increase in the average load factor of 1.4ppt, average fuel burn for the year 
was 715 US gallons per block hour compared to 717 in 2008, principally 
reflecting the implementation of fuel conservation initiatives.
US dollar and euro exchange rates
The market rate for the US dollar strengthened by 22% from an average rate 
of 1.99/£ in 2008 to 1.56/£ in 2009; after taking account of hedging, easyJet’s 
effective rate strengthened from an average of 1.96/£ in 2008 to 1.78/£ in 
2009. The business has no US dollar revenues but significant US dollar costs 
for fuel, aircraft leases, maintenance and some loan interest and consequently 
the 9% movement in the effective dollar rate had a significant impact on 
financial performance.
The euro has strengthened by 12% from an average rate of 1.32/£ in 2008 to 
1.16/£ in 2009. Approximately 42% of revenues and 31% of costs (principally 
ground handling, airport and navigation charges and some crew costs) are 
denominated in euro resulting in a net long position; the strengthening of the 
euro, therefore, delivers a positive impact to the results. For the first time this 
year some hedging of the euro surplus has also been undertaken. 
The business continues to 
generate strong operating 
cash flow and ends the year 
with over £1 billion in liquid 
funds, a strong balance sheet 
and significant undrawn 
financing in place.
Mark Adams  
Interim Chief Financial Officer Annual report and accounts 2009 21 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Currency impact
Currency split – total revenue
The following charts illustrate easyJet’s exposure to foreign currency 
revenues and costs:
euro 42%
Swiss franc 6%
sterling 49%
other 3%
Currency split – total costs
euro 31%
Swiss franc 4%
sterling 23%
other 1%
US dollar 41%
Certain key measures are therefore significantly impacted by exchange  
rate fluctuations. These measures on a constant currency basis are shown  
in the adjacent table:
Reduction in aircraft utilisation
In response to the fuel price situation at the beginning of the year, the level  
of flying activity during the first six months of 2009 was actively reduced; 
however, utilisation returned to more normal levels for the summer.  
So while total aircraft has increased by 16.0% from an average of 150.1  
in 2008 to 174.1 in 2009, the number of seats flown has only increased  
by 1.8%. Average aircraft utilisation, measured in terms of block hours  
per operated aircraft per day, has fallen from 1 1.9 hours per day in 2008  
to 1 1.0 hours in 2009.
As a result of this positive decision to reduce utilisation, and therefore  
capacity flown, to protect profit margins, cost per seat measures are  
adversely affected as non-variable costs are spread over relatively  
fewer seats.
Operational measures 2009 2008 Change
Seats flown (millions) 52.8 51.9 1.8%
Passengers (millions) 45.2 43.7 3.4%
Load factor 85.5% 84.1% 1.4ppt
Available Seat Kilometres (ASK) 
(millions) 58,165 55,687 4.4%
Revenue Passenger Kilometres 
(RPK) (millions) 50,566 47,690 6.0%
Average sector length (kilometres) 1,101 1,073 2.6%
Sectors 337,266 333,017 1.3%
Block hours 645,446 631,084 2.3%
Number of aircraft owned/leased 
at end of year 181 165 9.7%
Average number of aircraft 
owned/leased during year 174.1 150.1 16.0%
Number of aircraft operated at 
end of year 170 16 1 5.6%
Average number of aircraft 
operated during year 160.1 145.3 10.2%
Operated aircraft utilisation  
(hours per day) 11 .0 11 .9 (6.9)%
Number of routes operated at 
end of year 422 380 11 . 1 %
Number of airports served at end 
of year 11 4 100 14.0%
Financial measures
2009 2008 Change
Return on equity 5.5% 6.8% (1.3)ppt
Per seat measures 
(underlying)*
Profit before tax per seat (£) 0.83 2.37 (65.1)%
Revenue per seat (£) 50.47 45.51 10.9%
Revenue per seat at constant 
currency (£) 47.36 45.51 4.1%
Cost per seat (£) 49.64 43.14 (1 5.1)%
Cost per seat excluding fuel (£) 34.36 29.49 ( 16.5)%
Cost per seat excluding fuel at 
constant currency (£) 31.32 29.49 (6.2)%
Per ASK measures 
(underlying)*
Profit before tax per ASK (pence) 0.08 0.22 (66.0)%
Revenue per ASK (pence) 4.58 4.24 8.1%
Revenue per ASK at constant 
currency (pence) 4.30 4.24 1.4%
Cost per ASK (pence) 4.51 4.02 (1 2.1)%
Cost per ASK excluding fuel 
(pence) 3.12 2.75 (13.6)%
Cost per ASK excluding fuel at 
constant currency (pence) 2.85 2.75 (3.5)%
*Underlying measures exclude an £1 1.0 million profit on the sale of three aircraft in 2009 and  
£12.9 million of costs associated with the integration of GB Airways in 2008 . 22 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
T otal revenue
Total revenue in 2009 grew by 12.9% to £2,666.8 million which equates  
to £50.47 per seat, representing a growth of £4.96 per seat or 10.9%.  
On a constant currency basis, total revenue per seat grew 4.1%; after allowing 
for the increase in sector length of 2.6%, this represents a strong underlying 
performance, particularly in light of the difficult external economic conditions. 
This result has been supported by the continuing strategy to increasingly 
deploy capacity to the better located but more expensive airports preferred 
by customers and thereby improve network mix.
Passenger revenue
Passenger revenue in 2009 grew by 7.8% to £2,150.5 million. Despite the 
16.0% increase in average aircraft during the period, capacity in terms of seats 
flown increased by only 1.8% as a result of the decision to reduce flying activity 
particularly through the winter. Load factor improved 1.4ppt to 85.5%, the first 
time since 2005 that the annual load factor has exceeded 85%. This resulted  
in a 3.4% increase in passenger numbers to 45.2 million demonstrating a flight 
to value as easyJet increased market share by attracting customers from 
higher fare competitors.
The shift towards deploying relatively more capacity to European markets 
continues. Capacity in total rose 1.8% in 2009 versus 2008; of this overall 
increase, capacity at UK regional bases reduced by 8.4% whilst continental 
European bases increased by 16.0% with most of this investment being 
focused in Milan Malpensa, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Lyon. London bases,  
in aggregate, reduced by 3.1% with Gatwick capacity up by 1 1.5% but Luton 
and Stansted reducing by 18.3% and 16.3% respectively. The percentage of 
revenues denominated in euros in 2009 was 42% with, in aggregate, 
non-sterling revenues now accounting for 51% of total revenues.
Passenger revenue per seat increased by 5.9% to £40.70 but on a constant 
currency basis fell by 1.9%. This reduction in revenue per seat in the current 
economic environment, taking into account the expected dilution from an 
increase in the checked bag charge, is testament to the strength of the 
network. Passenger revenue per ASK, on a constant currency basis,  
fell by 4.4%.
Ancillary revenue
Ancillary revenue increased by 40.6% to £516.3 million in 2009, driven mainly 
by increases in the checked bag charge. Bag charge revenue delivered  
£238.1 million in 2009, an increase of £94.0 million or 65.2% compared  
to the previous year. As expected, this has been accompanied by a small  
yield dilution, but with approximately 70% of passengers having checked 
baggage, the net result is positive. Speedy Boarding continues to deliver  
a strong performance. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Costs
Underlying costs*
 
2009  
£ million
 
2009  
per seat
2008  
£ million
 
2008  
per seat
Ground handling 255.9 4.84 2 12.2 4.09
Airport charges 481.5 9.11 397.2 7.65
Fuel 807.2 15.28 708.7 13.65
Navigation 232.3 4.40 195.7 3.77
Crew 306.6 5.80 263.2 5.07
Maintenance 161.6 3.06 1 47.5 2.84
Advertising 47.0 0.89 46.5 0.90
Merchant fees and 
commissions 33.5 0.64 33.7 0.65
Aircraft and passenger 
insurance 11.3 0.21 9.1 0.1 7
Other costs 104.8 1.98 87.5 1.68
Total operating costs 2,441.7 46.21 2,101.3 40.47
Net ownership costs 181.4 3.43 138.4 2.67
Total costs 2,623.1 49.64 2,239.7 43.14
Total operating costs 
excluding fuel 1,634.5 30.93 1,392.6 26.82
Total costs 
excluding fuel 1,815.9 34.36 1,531.0 29.49
*Underlying measures exclude the £1 1.0 million profit on disposal of assets held for sale in 2009 
and £12.9 million of GB Airways integration costs in 2008.
T otal costs
Total cost per seat excluding fuel was up 16.5% or £4.87 per seat to £34.36 in 
2009, compared to 2008. In addition to the strengthening of the US dollar and 
euro, the Swiss franc strengthened by 19%. As a significant proportion of the 
cost base is denominated in these currencies, this has had a significant impact 
on unit costs. Excluding the impact of exchange rates, cost per seat excluding 
fuel was up 6.2% or £1.83 per seat compared to last year.
The impact of the reduction in global interest rates has had a significant impact 
on interest income in the year; interest income in 2009 at £18.4 million was 
£30.5 million lower than the £48.9 million reported in 2008. These changes in 
interest rates are largely out of easyJet’s control so, excluding the impact of this 
reduction, operating cost per seat (excluding fuel and at constant currency) 
was up 3.9% compared to 2008. On a cost per ASK basis, excluding fuel,  
costs increased by 1 3.6% but on a constant currency basis by just 3.5%.  
Again, excluding the impact of interest income, this figure falls to 1.3%.
As a result of the reduction in winter flying activity and utilisation, unit cost 
measures are adversely impacted as non-variable costs are spread over 
relatively fewer units of production. Annual report and accounts 2009 23 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Ground handling
Ground handling cost per seat at constant currency was up £0.27 or 6.6% 
compared to 2008. Approximately 61% of ground handling costs are now 
denominated in euro, up 6ppt from 2008. The drivers of this increase include 
airport mix, as presence continues to be increased in the top European 
airports (estimated impact £0.14 per seat), the full year effect of PRM 
(Passengers with Reduced Mobility) charges and increased adverse weather 
related de-icing costs.
Airport charges
Airport cost per seat at constant currency was up £0.59 or 7.8% compared  
to 2008. Approximately 58% of these costs are denominated in euro,  
up 7 percentage points from 2008. The key driver of this increase has been 
over-inflation price rises in airport passenger related charges at a number of 
locations across the network, increasing costs by approximately £30 million. 
Significant increases have occurred at Gatwick, Luton, Amsterdam and  
at all Spanish and Italian airports. Mix continues to impact as we increase  
our presence in the top European airports. In a specific response to the 
uneconomic level of charges at Luton, easyJet announced in September  
2009 that it would remove some flying for 2010 and redeploy aircraft  
to more profitable activity elsewhere.
Crew
Crew cost per seat at constant currency was up £0.44 or 8.7% compared  
to 2008. An increasing proportion of these costs are denominated in 
non-sterling currencies as more overseas contracts are introduced and 
approximately 25% of these costs are now denominated in euro and 9% in 
Swiss franc. The increase in unit costs has been driven by last year’s crew pay 
deal which was linked to August 2008 RPI, the increased costs associated with 
the introduction of overseas contracts (a necessary part of the expansion 
strategy into continental Europe) and maintaining higher than required crew 
numbers over the winter, whilst there was reduced aircraft utilisation, as these 
crew were required for the summer activity.
Crew costs continue to be a key area of management focus with significant 
opportunities for efficiency improvement in the medium term.
Maintenance
Maintenance cost per seat at constant currency was down £0.12 or 4.1% 
compared to 2008. The net reduction in unit cost mainly reflects the benefit 
of the reduction in the number of leased aircraft as the Boeing 737-700s  
have started to leave the fleet partly offset by the full year costs of the  
new in-house maintenance planning function. During the year, 12 leased 
Boeing 737-700s and four leased (ex GB) A320s were returned to lessors. 
Approximately 35% of maintenance costs are denominated in US dollar  
and 21% in euro.
At the end of the year, negotiations were completed with SR Technics  
on a new maintenance contract which will deliver savings of around  
£175 million over the 1 1 year life of the contract.
Insurance and other costs
Other costs per seat at constant currency were up £0.17 or 9.3% compared 
to 2008. The main drivers of this per seat increase were reduced utilisation 
and an increase in disruption costs (driven by bad weather in the winter) 
partially offset by the profit on the Boeing spares optimisation project,  
as reported in the first half of the financial year. 24 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 
Ownership costs
Net ownership costs, on a per seat basis at constant currency, were up  
£0.52 or 19.4% compared to 2008. The average number of aircraft during  
the year was 174.1, up 16.0% compared to the previous year. The number  
of non-operational aircraft increased by nine compared to last year principally 
due to aircraft held for sale and an increase in aircraft in maintenance as 
easyJet prepared aircraft for return to lessors. There were 35 additions  
during the year, 31 debt financed and four cash financed; 12 Boeing 737-700s 
and four ex-GB A320s were returned to lessors and three ex-GB A321s  
were sold.
Net ownership costs include interest income which has fallen from  
£48.9 million in 2008 to £18.4 million in 2009, a fall of £30.5 million due to  
the dramatic drop in market interest rates and despite cash balances and 
money market deposits rising from £863 million at 30 September 2008 to 
£1,075 million at 30 September 2009. Gross ownership costs i.e. excluding  
the impact of interest income, on a constant currency basis, improved by 
£0.1 3 per seat or 3.5%. This benefit is driven by the exit of higher cost leased 
Boeing 737-700 aircraft and replacement by lower cost owned Airbus aircraft 
and lower interest rates feeding into interest payable as rates are re-priced  
to market.
Unit costs have been impacted by the reduced winter flying activity with costs  
of the fleet that is, on average, 16.0% larger being spread over a similar amount 
of seats flown as last year.
The exit of higher cost 737-700 aircraft is well under way and this, together 
with the exit of higher cost aircraft acquired as part of the acquisition of GB 
Airways, is expected to deliver the targeted benefits in aircraft ownership.
 
*Underlying number; excludes an £1 1 million profit on the sale of three aircraft in 2009 and  
£12.9 million of one-off integration costs for GB Airways in 2008. 
Headline profit before tax for 2009 was £54.7 million; after excluding the 
one-off benefit of the profit on sale of three ex-GB A321s, underlying profit 
before tax was £43.7 million. This is a fall of £79.4 million in underlying profit 
before tax compared to 2008, despite the fuel bill rising £98.5 million. With 
total revenue per seat increasing by 10.9% and total cost per seat increasing  
by 15.1%, profit margin dropped by 3.6 percentage points to 1.6%.
Profit after tax and return on equity
At the end of 2009, favourable resolution was reached with HMRC on a  
prior year tax matter resulting in the release of a provision. This release has 
contributed to an effective tax credit rate for the year of 30.2% compared to 
an effective tax charge rate of 24.5% in 2008. For 2010 the effective tax rate is 
expected to be a charge of 25%.
The tax provision release also had a significant impact on the return on  
equity in 2009. For the year it was 5.5% compared to 6.8% in 2008, a fall of  
1.3 percentage points. Although underlying profit before tax fell by 64.5%, 
retained profit, significantly impacted by the tax provision release, fell by only 
14.4%. With shareholders’ funds broadly flat year on year, the resultant return 
on equity is therefore only down by 1.3 percentage points.
Basic earnings per share, at 16.9 pence, is down 14.6% compared to 2008, 
reflecting the significant drop in retained profit, being offset, to a large extent, 
by the tax provision release.
In line with established policy, no dividends have been paid or proposed in the 
year ended 30 September 2009 or during the comparative accounting period. 
Changes in pre-tax profit per seat build up
£ per seat
High level profit per seat bridge
£0.83
£2.37
£1.63
£0.07
£1.85 £1.19
£0.64
2008 profit
before tax
per seat
Foreign
exchange
impact
T otal
revenue
Costs
excl. fuel 
excl. interest
Interest Fuel
inc. foreign
exchange
impact
2009 profit
before tax
per seat Annual report and accounts 2009 25 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Balance sheet and cash flow
As discussed in the Business Review, the industry has faced challenging 
economic conditions in 2009. However, easyJet continued to generate  
a strong operating cash flow and ended the year with over £1 billion in  
cash and short-term liquid deposits, a strong balance sheet and significant  
undrawn committed financing to fund future aircraft deliveries.
A clear focus on working capital and balance sheet management has  
put easyJet in a strong position to withstand the current economic  
climate and to emerge stronger.
Despite a significant tightening of credit in capital markets, easyJet  
has capitalised on the strength of its business model and financial position  
to secure additional debt and lease financing to add to that agreed in  
December 2007.
Summary balance sheet
2009  
£ million
2008  
(restated)*  
£ million
Change  
£ million
Goodwill 365.4 365.4 –
Property, plant and equipment 1,612.2 1,102.6 509.6
Other non-current assets 213.2 218.4 (5.2)
2,190.8 1,686.4 504.4
Net working capital (537.3) (306.5) (230.8)
Cash and cash equivalents 788.6 632.2 156.4
Money market deposits 286.3 230.3 56.0
Borrowings (1,120.6) (626.9) (493.7)
Other non-current liabilities (300.5) (337.3) 36.8
Net assets 1,307.3 1,278.2 29.1
Share capital and premium 748.5 745.9 2.6
Reserves 558.8 532.3 26.5
Shareholders’ funds 1,307.3 1,278.2 29.1
*Fair value adjustments in respect of GB Airways, see note 23 to the accounts.
Shareholders’ funds increased by £29.1 million in the year, the profit after tax 
being offset by a reduction in the fair value of the Group’s cash flow hedges 
net of deferred tax. The strengthening of the US dollar and the euro against 
sterling in the year has caused a significant reduction in the fair value of the 
Group’s currency derivative portfolio; this was partially offset by a decrease  
in the value of the jet fuel derivative liability as fuel prices fell. These fair value 
gains and losses are deferred in equity and recycled to the income statement 
in line with the underlying hedged transaction.
Goodwill was £365.4 million at 30 September 2009. Provisional fair values of 
assets and liabilities acquired through a business combination may be adjusted 
for 12 months following the acquisition date; for GB Airways this period ended 
on 31 January 2009. Since 30 September 2008, the fair value of maintenance 
provisions has been increased reflecting additional liabilities relating to  
engines on aircraft held under operating leases. After allowing for tax relief, 
goodwill relating to the GB Airways acquisition increased by £5.6 million  
to £55.8 million. Comparative balances have been adjusted to reflect that 
these liabilities were extant at the acquisition date.
The net increase in property, plant and equipment in the year was £509.6 
million. Additions in respect of new aircraft delivered, pre-delivery deposits  
for future deliveries and non-aircraft fixed assets totalled £515.0 million, this 
was offset by depreciation charged in the year of £55.4 million and disposals  
of £4.9 million. During the year, easyJet took delivery of an additional 20 A319 
aircraft and the first 15 easyJet specification A320 aircraft. Three ex-GB 
Airways A321 aircraft were sold generating a profit of £1 1.0 million.  
These assets had been transferred to assets held for sale in 2008. Four A321 
aircraft remain as assets held for sale at 30 September 2009. The five easyJet 
specification A319 aircraft disclosed as assets held for sale at 30 September 
2008 were taken off the market in the year and returned to property, plant 
and equipment at their book value of £54.9 million. Potential purchasers have 
found credit hard to obtain in the current market and the Board has agreed to 
retain these owned aircraft to support the European expansion plans in 2010.
Net working capital improved by £230.8 million in the year. Assets held  
for sale decreased by £121.7 million with three A321s sold and five A319s 
returned to property, plant and equipment. Trade and other payables 
increased by £97.7 million as a result of additional unearned income, the 
increase in the size of the business and efficient working capital management. 
Unearned income increased due to the strength of the euro against sterling 
and as a result of the schedule now being on sale out for up to 1 1 months.  
In addition, the fair value of short-term derivative balances decreased  
£43.6 million year-on-year as the US dollar and euro strengthened  
against sterling.
The total of cash and cash equivalents and money market deposits was 
£1,074.9 million at 30 September 2009 up £212.4 million compared to  
30 September 2008. Net cash of £134.5 million was generated from 
operations as a result of cash received in advance from customers and strong 
working capital management. £90.2 million was received from the sale of 
three ex-GB A321 aircraft and other fixed assets in the year. The purchase  
of aircraft in the year was funded predominantly by additional borrowings.  
Of the 35 A320 family aircraft delivered in the year, 31 were mortgage 
financed. Money market deposits are held partially in US dollars to provide  
a match against US dollar denominated borrowings.
Excluded from the above total is £72.3 million of restricted cash disclosed  
in other non-current assets and net working capital. These amounts relate 
principally to operating lease deposits and customer payments for holidays. 
The total of cash and cash equivalents, money market deposits and restricted 
cash at 30 September 2009 was £1,147.2 million (30 September 2008:  
£928.7 million).
As detailed above, most aircraft deliveries were funded from additional 
borrowings. Total borrowings increased by £493.7 million in the year to 
£1,120.6 million as a result of £468.2 million of new draw downs net of 
repayments and foreign exchange movements of £25.5 million on the 
retranslation of debt. Most borrowings are denominated in US dollars; 
however some facilities were drawn in euros for the first time in the year.  
The US dollar rate moved from 1.78 at 30 September 2008 to 1.60  
at 30 September 2009.
Other non-current liabilities include maintenance provisions for work due  
to be performed in more than one year of £168.6 million, deferred income 
relating principally to the excess of sale price over fair value for aircraft subject 
to sale and leaseback of £52.6 million, deferred tax liabilities of £76.7 million 
and long-term financial instrument liabilities of £2.6 million. 
Maintenance provisions have been impacted by the movement in the  
US dollar and euro exchange rates in the year. Deferred tax liabilities have 
decreased by £31.1 million since 30 September 2008 as a result of the 
reduction in the value of cash flow hedges, reduced accelerated capital 
allowances and the recognition of a deferred tax asset on losses; offset  
by a charge for increased short-term operating timing differences.  26 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Net (debt) / funds (excluding restricted cash)
2009  
£ million
2008  
£ million
Change  
£ million
Cash and cash equivalents 788.6 632.2 156.4
Money market deposits 286.3 230.3 56.0
1,074.9 862.5 2 12.4
Bank loans (1,010.7) (524.9) (485.8)
Finance lease obligations (109.9) (102.0) (7.9)
(1,120.6) (626.9) (493.7)
Net (debt) / funds (excluding 
restricted cash) (45.7) 235.6 (281.3)
The net of cash and cash equivalents, money market deposits and borrowings 
(excluding restricted cash) at 30 September 2009 was a net debt position of 
£45.7 million (30 September 2008: net funds of £235.6 million) following the 
funding of capital expenditure through additional borrowings in the year.
Gearing increased in the year from 28.7% to 37.6%. The increase is a result of 
additional borrowings relating to new owned aircraft and the movement in 
the US dollar exchange rate. Gearing is consistent with that reported at the 
half year. Additional debt drawdown in the second half of the year has been 
offset by improved shareholders’ funds as a result of profits earned in the 
summer and the reversal of fair value fuel hedge losses deferred in equity  
at 31 March 2009.
Summary cash flow
2009  
£ million
2008  
£ million
Change  
£ million
Cash generated from operations 134.5 296.2 ( 16 1.7)
Acquisition of GB Airways – ( 11 8.0) 11 8.0
Net capital expenditure (430.3) (299.9) ( 130.4)
Net increase/(decrease) in loan 
finance 470.1 (5.5) 475.6
Net increase in money market 
deposits (29.0) (8.7) (20.3)
Other including the effect of 
exchange rates 11.1 49.0 (37.9)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and 
cash equivalents 156.4 (86.9) 243.3
Cash and cash equivalents at 
beginning of year 632.2 71 9.1 (86.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at 
end of year 788.6 632.2 156.4
Despite reduced profit levels in 2009, easyJet generated a positive operating 
cash flow in 2009 of £134.5 million as a result of a strong improvement in 
working capital. 
Capital expenditure in the year was funded from further borrowings and is 
shown net of the proceeds from the sale of the three A321 aircraft and other 
assets in the year. 
The value of cash holdings benefited from foreign exchange movements 
following the strengthening of both the US dollar and the euro against sterling.
Undrawn committed financing facilities
2009  
US$ million
2008  
US$ million
Change  
US$ million
December 2007 facility 278 885 (607)
Revolving credit facility 250 250 –
Facilities at 30 September 528 1,1 35 (607)
Sale and leaseback finance secured 
after the balance sheet date 222 – 222
Undrawn committed 
financing facilities 750 1,1 35 (385)
Of the $937 million aircraft financing facility agreed in December 2007,  
$52 million was drawn in the year ended 30 September 2008, an additional 
$607 million was drawn in the current year, leaving $278 million for future 
deliveries. Seven A320 deliveries in the year were funded from additional 
mortgage finance secured in September 2009. 
In addition to the undrawn December 2007 facilities of $278 million, easyJet 
has an undrawn revolving credit facility in place for $250 million, giving total 
undrawn facilities at 30 September 2009 of $528 million. 
Subsequent to the year end in November 2009, easyJet secured $222 million 
of additional sale and leaseback finance bringing total undrawn facilities to 
$750 million. Future aircraft deliveries will be funded through a combination  
of undrawn committed facilities and surplus cash.
Improved cash position
£1,075*
£863*
£60
£60
£61
(£10)
Cash at 
30 September 2008*
Operating profit
Depreciation and 
amortisation
Net working capital
T ax, net interest, foreign 
exchange and other
£471
Financing
(£508)
Capital expenditure
£78
Aircraft sales
Cash at 
30 September 2009*
High level cash flow bridge
*Includes money market deposits but excludes restricted cash. 
£ million Annual report and accounts 2009 27 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Going concern
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the accounts, the Directors 
have considered the business activities as set out on pages 16 to 19 as well  
as easyJet’s principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 28 to 29.  
Based on easyJet’s cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied 
that easyJet will be able to operate within the level of its facilities and available  
cash for the foreseeable future. For this reason, easyJet continues to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing its accounts.
Significant contracts
easyJet operates a fleet constituted mainly of Airbus* aircraft with some 
Boeings which are being phased out. Engines are provided by CFM and IAE 
and maintenance of aircraft and engines is undertaken by SRT, Virgin*, 
Aerotron*, GE, MTU and Lufthansa. The major lessors of aircraft to easyJet 
are AWAS*, BOC Aviation*, GECAS*, Nomura Babcock & Brown*, Royal 
Bank of Scotland* and Sumisho*. The major lenders to easyJet for aircraft 
purchase are Alliance & Leicester*, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi*, BNP Paribas*, 
Calyon*, HSH Nordbank*, KfW*, Natixis*, PK AirFinance*, Royal Bank of 
Scotland*, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation* and WestLB*.
Our main insurers are Global, AIG, Kiln, Canada Life, QBE, Chubb, Ace  
and Allianz.
One of our biggest costs is fuel and our main suppliers are Shell, Air BP, Exxon 
and Q8. Our IT systems include agreements with AIMS, who provide crew, 
aircraft and flight management control and operation software; SAVVIS who 
provide data centre hosting facilities; Lufthansa who provide flight planning 
systems; SOPRA who develop our reservations system; and Agresso who 
provide our accounting system.
On 30 September 2009 the Company had 20 bases and they were  
operated by:
BAA  
AdP  
Saint Louis – EuroAirport Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg  
Manchester Airports Group  
South West Airports  
Abertis  
Peel Holdings  
Aeroports de Lyon 
Flughafen Berlin-Schoenefeld  
Aeroporti Di Milano  
Newcastle Airport 
Geneva International Airport 
AENA 
At these airports our ground handling was carried out by:
Menzies Aviation 
Servisair 
Group Europe Handling 
Aviapartner 
Swissport 
SEA Handling 
Globeground Berlin
Our main ancillary partners are Gate Gourmet, who provide our in-flight 
merchandise, Europcar, who provide car rental, Hotelopia and Laterooms 
who broker hotels and Alvia who, through the Mondial brand, provide insurance.
Our credit card acquirers are Elavon, Lloyds TSB, Euroconnect, Barclays 
Merchant Services and American Express. Our payment service providers  
are CyberSource and Bibit.
The Company is regulated by the CAA and easyJet Switzerland is regulated 
by FOCA. We have important relationships with NATS and Eurocontrol in 
relation to air traffic services.
The main unions we deal with in the UK are BALPA, UNITE and ALAE;  
in France they are SNPL and UNAC/CFTC; in Spain they are SEPLA and 
CCOO; in Italy ANPAC CISL; and in Switzerland BALPA and ESPA. 
We use training services from CTC and flight simulation services from CAE.
We have a key relationship with easyGroup IP Licensing who own  
the easyJet brand.
*These contracts contain provisions giving the other party the right to terminate if there is a change 
in control in easyJet.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors
easyJet aims to have partnership agreements with suppliers, which stresses 
the importance of strong suppliers aligned to the success of easyJet as a 
business. Many of our supply agreements are unique and tailored to the needs 
of the business, to make sure that suppliers are rewarded appropriately for 
delivering services which meet pre-agreed performance targets and align with 
easyJet’s own internal performance goals. Our practice is to:
agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier q
ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payments q
pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations q
At 30 September 2009, the number of creditor days outstanding for the 
Group was 15 days (2008: ten days), and for the Company was nil days  
(2008: nil days). 28 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 
Principal risks and uncertainties
This section describes the principal risks and uncertainties which may affect easyJet’s business, financial results and prospects. 
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation
Safety and security
Safety/security incident: Failure to  
prevent a safety or security incident or deal  
with it effectively. 
Adversely affect our reputation, operational and 
financial performance. 
Our number one priority is the safety of our customers 
and people. We operate a strong safety management 
system through:
Fatigue Risk Management System; q
Incident reporting; q
Safety Review Board; q
Safety Action Group; q
 We also have response systems in place and provide 
training for crisis management.
External risks
Economic demand for air travel:  
easyJet’s business can be affected by macro 
economic issues outside of its control such as 
weakening consumer confidence or inflationary 
pressures. 
Adverse pressure on revenue, load factors  
and potentially residual values of aircraft.
Regular monitoring of markets and route performance 
by our network and fleet management teams.
Strong balance sheet supports business through 
challenging economic conditions for the sector.
Appropriate mix of owned and leased aircraft reduces 
residual value exposure.
Competition: easyJet operates in competitive 
marketplaces against both flag carriers and other 
low-cost airlines. 
Loss of market share and erosion of revenue. Routine monitoring of competitor activity.
Rapid response in anticipation of and to changes.
Regulatory intervention: Many of the 
airports which easyJet flies to are regulated, and 
as such, charges are levied by way of regulatory 
decision rather than by commercial negotiation. 
Many airports are also slot constrained and 
therefore also subject to regulation. 
Airport charges may rise. Furthermore, slots may 
not become readily available. This may adversely 
impact our cost base and require us to revise our 
network development plan.
easyJet has a key role in influencing the future state of 
regulations. One example of its pro-activeness is the 
instigation of a judicial review of the Civil Aviation 
Authority (CAA) which may lead to changes in the 
economic regulation of increases to UK airport charges. 
Environmental impact: Consumer  
attitude to climate change.
Potential impact on consumer demand for  
the core business.
Environmental Management Group that co-ordinates 
environmental policy and public communications. 
easyJet operates modern, fuel-efficient aircraft 
operating at high capacity and flies to conveniently 
located airports.
Regulation and oversight across Europe: 
Retaining control and oversight of local 
regulatory and management issues across the 
network as the Company grows geographically.
Lack of awareness of local regulations or 
management issues could have adverse 
operational, reputational and financial 
consequences.
Country oversight boards are being established for  
our main markets.
Reputational risks
Business continuity: easyJet’s head office  
is located at a major London airport. 
A loss of facilities could lead to disruption. Alternative site is in place should there be a need to 
relocate at short notice due to loss of facilities. 
IT security and fraud risk: easyJet  
receives most of its revenues through credit 
cards and as an e-commerce business, faces 
external and internal IT security risks. 
A security breach could result in a material  
adverse effect for the business and severe 
reputational damage. 
Systems are secured and monitored against 
unauthorised access. 
Scanning software for fraudulent customer activity that is 
monitored and controlled by Revenue Protection team. 
Brand ownership: The claim brought by 
easyGroup IP Licensing Limited (‘Licensor’) 
against the Company in the High Court for 
clarification of certain terms of its Brand Licence 
agreement with the Company continues. 
Earlier this year the Court held that some of  
the Licensor’s requests for declarations about 
interpretation of Brand Licence provisions could only 
be tried if they were amended to breach of contract 
claims. The Licensor subsequently amended its case 
to claim specific breaches of contract and served a 
number of notices of breach. However, the 
substantive points of difference between the parties 
remain materially unchanged.
It is now anticipated that the case will be heard in  
the High Court during June 2010. The Company 
remains confident that its response to the claims is  
well founded. Annual report and accounts 2009 29 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation
E-commerce risk
Dependence on technology: easyJet is 
heavily dependent on the website easyJet.com 
and three key systems in particular: eRes, which 
is used to process seat purchases and manage 
reservations; RMS which is used for yield 
management; and AIMS, which is used to 
manage operational data and crew positioning. 
An outage of any of these key systems could have  
a material adverse effect for the business. 
Two server locations are run in parallel resulting  
in a highly resilient system architecture which is  
subject to review and testing.
easyJet has a comprehensive system of back-up  
and protection.
People risks
Industrial action: Large parts of the easyJet 
workforce are unionised. The same applies to 
our key third-party service providers, where 
similar issues exist. 
If there is a breakdown in this process, then 
operations could be disrupted with a resultant 
adverse effect on the business. 
Collective bargaining takes place on a regular basis. 
Retention of key management: Due to 
easyJet’s lean business model, the Company is 
reliant on certain key managers. 
Loss of key personnel could result in a short-term 
lack of necessary expertise in certain positions. 
Bi-annual talent management and succession  
planning of key positions.
Key supplier risk
Dependence on third-party service 
providers: easyJet has entered into 
agreements with third-party service providers 
for services covering a significant proportion of 
its cost base. There can be no assurance that 
contract renewals will be at favourable rates. 
The loss of any of these contracts, any inability to 
renew them or any inability to negotiate 
replacement contracts could have a material 
adverse effect on future operating costs. 
Centralised procurement department that negotiates 
key contracts.
Most developed markets have suitable alternative 
service providers.
Financial risks
Fuel price and currency fluctuations:  
Sudden and significant increases in jet fuel price 
and foreign exchange rates would significantly 
impact fuel costs and other foreign currency 
denominated costs.
If not protected against, this would have a material 
adverse effect on financial performance. 
Policy to hedge within a percentage band for rolling  
24 month period.
To provide protection, the Group uses a limited range 
of hedging instruments traded in the over the counter 
(OTC) markets, principally forward purchases, with  
a number of approved counterparties. 
Financing and interest rate risk: All of  
the Group’s debt is asset related, reflecting the 
capital intensive nature of the airline industry. 
Market conditions could change the cost of finance 
which may have an adverse effect on the financial 
performance.
Group interest rate management policy aims to 
provide certainty in a proportion of its financing. 
Operating lease rentals are a mix of fixed and floating 
rates (currently 60% to 40%).
All on balance sheet debt floating rate, re-priced  
up to six months.
A portion of US dollar mortgage debt is matched  
with US dollar money market deposits.
Liquidity risk: The Group continues to hold 
significant cash or liquid funds as a form of 
insurance. 
Lack of sufficient liquid funds could result in 
business disruption and have a material adverse 
effect on financial performance.
Board policy is to maintain an absolute minimum level 
of free cash and money market deposits.
Allows business to ride out downturns in business or 
temporary curtailment of activities (e.g. fleet grounding, 
security incident, extended industrial dispute at key 
supplier).
Committed borrowing facilities of US$0.5 billion at  
30 September 2009.
Credit risk: Surplus funds are invested in high 
quality short-term liquid instruments, usually 
money market funds or bank deposits. 
Possibility of material loss arising in the event of 
non-performance of counterparties given recent 
turmoil in financial markets. 
Cash is placed on deposit with institutions based  
upon credit rating with a maximum exposure of  
£100 million for AAA ratings. 30 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY
Safety is our No.1 priority and a clear imperative 
for every airline, including easyJet. We recognise 
the risks associated with operating an airline and 
work tirelessly to ensure the safety of our customers, 
our people and our shareholders’ investments.
At easyJet we believe people make the difference; 
by treating our people well, they will be more 
customer-focused and better represent the easyJet 
brand – and that in turn will drive greater customer 
satisfaction.
In order for aviation to have a long-term future, we 
must minimise our environmental impact, ensure 
that environmental impacts and the evolving 
regulatory environment are considered in all key 
business decisions and continue to invest in a fleet 
of young and fuel-efficient aircraft.
Safety and our customer proposition are key 
strategic priorities and are covered in detail on 
pages 8 to 9 and 12 to 13 of this publication and 
therefore this Corporate Responsibility report 
focuses on our approach to people and 
environmental management.
 
People
Our business is only as good as the people that  
we recruit, train and retain. Our people strategy  
is underpinned by the cornerstones of talent, 
engagement and organisational design and aims  
to ensure that, through strong leadership, we have 
the right skills in the right place at the right time, 
thereby creating an environment where people 
perform better for us than they would for anyone 
else. We recognise that having the right skills, 
experience and culture directly influences our 
performance across all of our strategic objectives. 
Our ethos is expressed through five values: safety 
(our No.1 priority – no compromises), teamwork 
(we’ll get there faster together), pioneering 
(breaking the mould to find new ways and new 
opportunities), passionate (we’re ambitious to be 
the best we can be) and integrity (we mean what 
we say, and do it!).
Recruitment
Our employer brand remains a key strength  
– we received over 45,000 hits on our website  
for opportunities which resulted in over 20,000 
applications; the quality of these applications was 
high and continues to ensure that we have buoyant 
holding pools from which to source our  
future employees.
We continue to focus on recruiting crew that live 
and breathe our values and have, for the past few 
years, changed the emphasis of our employment 
model to match the seasonal peaks of our business. 
We recruited 672 cabin crew in the year; our 
strategy to employ on fixed term contracts and 
invite people back year after year enables us to 
manage our business flexibly whilst maintaining  
our high standard of operation. We also operated 
The 
big 5
Our values:
Our employees are 
driven by our core 
values of safety, 
teamwork, pioneering, 
passionate and integrity.
Corporate responsibility and  
how we operate underpins our  
long-term prospects and our  
future financial performance.  
Safety, customer satisfaction,  
people and the environment all  
matter to our business.
  Annual report and accounts 2009 31 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
the Flexicrew scheme for our pilot requirements, 
employing 92 pilots across seven bases for fixed 
periods of time, to meet our operational needs.
Following the consolidation of easyTech and GB 
into the easyJet engineering and maintenance 
function, our focus has been on integration and 
building talent for our future growth. We have 
recruited 28 people into the function this year 
following the in-sourcing of several activities 
previously undertaken by a third party supplier. 
This exercise has enabled us to manage the safety, 
oversight, availability and reliability of the ever 
growing fleet. This has been another positive step 
forward in ensuring a world-class operation and a 
fully integrated engineering and maintenance function.
T raining
A wide variety of people joined easyJet through 
the year. We have looked to continuously improve  
our well-established and thorough induction 
training programme for crew and are in the 
process of refreshing our offering for those within 
the Management and Administration (M&A) 
population. This will ensure that all of our new 
joiners understand the easyJet culture, what we 
value, our strategic objectives and how they can 
contribute to our success from day one. easyJet 
wants people who are new to the organisation to 
settle in as quickly and efficiently as possible and 
will continue to invest in the induction process for 
everyone’s benefit.
We continue to partner with leading schools such 
as Cranfield University and London City University 
to ensure our managers get high quality support in 
developing both their technical and management 
skills. We continue to build and maintain good 
relationships with well regarded research and 
advisory organisations and many of our senior 
managers continue to represent easyJet at 
numerous external events hosted by these  
leading organisations.
Retention
easyJet targets a sensible balance of retention  
and attrition, benefiting from our investment in 
recruitment and training, combined with continual 
injection of fresh thinking. Retention rates are 
influenced by rewards (including pay, benefits  
and career development opportunities) and 
employee engagement.
We recognise that it is often beneficial to the 
business to identify and develop talent internally 
together with recruiting externally. Four years  
ago, we developed our talent identification and 
succession planning process, which is now 
embedded in our organisation. As a result, we are 
more effective at identifying and retaining a pool  
of talent internally on which we can draw as key 
roles become vacant or new roles are created. 
Consequently, whilst we have experienced higher 
than normal turnover among senior managers  
this year, we have been able to source some 
replacements from within our talent pool whilst 
4 Me
Award-winning 
share plan
Over 80% of 
employees participate in 
our multi award winning 
easyJet Shares 4 Me. 
also taking the opportunity to refresh our talent 
mix from outside. Overall unforced staff turnover 
has improved by 5.1 percentage points to 6.9% 
since 2008, although understandably, the tough 
economic environment may have also significantly 
influenced employees’ decision to stay at easyJet.
T urning Europe Orange
In line with our quest to “Turn Europe Orange”  
we have made significant progress in expanding 
our employer presence across Europe. In 2009, 
easyJet continued to grow its employee base in 
Italy, Spain and France, strengthening our position 
as a truly pan-European air transport network.
As at 30 September 2009, easyJet employed 6,666 
people (2008: 6,107), based throughout Europe as 
illustrated below:
United Kingdom 4,473
Switzerland 498
France 435
Spain 432
Italy 521
Germany 307
Total 6,666
Equality and diversity
easyJet is an equal opportunities employer.  
We ensure that our employees and applicants  
do not receive less favourable treatment on the 
basis of their age, colour, creed, disability, full or  
part time status, gender, marital status, nationality 
or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation. 
Applications from disabled employees are always 
fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes  
of the applicant concerned. In the event that  
one of our people becomes disabled every effort  
is made to ensure that their employment at  
easyJet continues and training is arranged  
where appropriate.
Reward
easyJet offers a competitive rewards package  
and reviews salaries annually in line with market 
rates to ensure continued alignment to the  
market. The rewards package includes an annual 
performance-driven bonus, based on personal  
and Company performance, which encourages  
all employees to contribute towards achieving our 
strategic objectives. Employees are also eligible to 
participate in a Group personal pension towards 
which easyJet contributes, as well as having the 
option to make their own contributions through 
salary sacrifice.
Share schemes
easyJet once again offered all employees the 
opportunity to join its popular all-employee share 
plan, easyJet Shares 4 Me. The plan has won five 
major awards to date, and involves three elements: 
Save As You Earn (SAYE); Buy As You Earn (BAYE) 
and Free Shares. Each scheme is Her Majesty’s 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved and  
is open to all employees on the UK payroll.  
For employees who are on non-UK payrolls, 
international schemes have been established with 
similar terms and conditions to the UK scheme, 
albeit without the UK tax benefits. Participation in 
the scheme remains very strong, with over 80%  
of eligible staff now taking part in one or more  
of the plans. 32 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Y our benefits
In January 2009, we introduced “Your Benefits”  
to UK staff. This enables employees to access 
programmes and savings which would not be 
available to them on an individual basis. The benefit 
choices for 2009 included car breakdown cover, 
childcare vouchers, a “cycle to work” scheme, 
dental and optical insurance, Give As You Earn, 
health screening, income protection insurance,  
life assurance and private medical insurance. There 
are also “lifestyle” products which offer discounts 
on a wide range of products and services.
Employees make further savings in tax and 
National Insurance for many of these benefits, 
through salary sacrifice. easyJet’s National Insurance 
savings contribute to the financing of the scheme, 
which is fully outsourced.
Staff travel
Discounted staff travel continues to be a popular 
benefit available to all easyJet employees.  
Unlimited staff travel on the entire easyJet network 
is available for easyJet employees, their dependants 
and up to three nominated companions, subject  
to availability. easyJet employees made 73,461 
bookings using staff travel during the year, a total  
of 126,562 seats flown. The most popular route 
purchased by our employees was the London 
Gatwick to Malaga route.
Employee engagement
Communication
easyJet is committed to ensuring high employee 
satisfaction and engagement levels across its 
business. Engaged and motivated employees are  
a critical enabler for us to deliver on all of our 
strategic objectives, for example by identifying ways 
that we can improve our customer proposition, 
decrease our cost base, and, operate safely at  
all times.
One way in which we achieve these high levels of 
employee advocacy and engagement is our ability 
to underpin our cultural values in how we work 
with our people through informing and consulting 
with them. Our flat management structure enables 
us to communicate directly with all our employees. 
A number of communication forums are also in 
place; in addition, easyJet is currently establishing  
a European works council called the easyJet 
European Forum. This representative group 
provides a communication vehicle for information 
and consultation at a European level for issues that 
affect employees in more than one country.  
The aim of this forum is threefold: to assist in 
sharing best practice and communication across 
the business, to raise awareness and understanding 
of European-wide issues and how they affect us, 
and to inform us on what we can do to ensure  
we remain successful and true to our principle  
of low cost.
We work with our employee representatives and 
recognise a number of trade unions across Europe. 
easyJet has not lost any days due to industrial 
action during the year. In addition, we have joint 
working groups actively engaged in improving 
productivity in lifestyle related matters for our 
crew; activities which are consistent with our brand 
promise and cultural values. We survey opinion 
directly with all our crew members to take 
“temperature checks” on how we are progressing 
and how their needs are changing.
Pulse
We monitor and identify ways to improve 
employee satisfaction through our annual Pulse 
survey, which all employees are encouraged to 
participate in. This year, only 36% of employees 
participated in Pulse – a disappointing response 
rate which we believe may be due to our crew’s 
perception that management would be unlikely  
to put any suggestions into effect because of the 
difficult economic environment. Of those that did 
respond to the survey, however, 66% of our people 
indicated they are either satisfied or very satisfied, 
with high levels of both employer and service 
advocacy helping us to deliver our customer 
proposition. Summarised Pulse results are  
shown below:
2009 2008 Variance
Response rate 36% 72% (36)ppt
Satisfaction 66% 72% (6)ppt
Service advocacy 70% 72% (2)ppt
Engagement 70% 72% (2)ppt
Great place to work 60% 69% (9)ppt Annual report and accounts 2009 33 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
ETS
EU Emissions 
Trading Scheme
We were leading 
proponents for 
aviation’s entry  
into EU ETS.
The executive management team expected that 
the Pulse results would decline in 2009 because  
of the unprecedented economic uncertainty and 
significant pressure to reduce costs. However, 
easyJet is focused on addressing any concerns 
identified and, to this end, has made a commitment 
to make a step change improvement in 
communication processes and resource across the 
business. In particular, there is a plan to re-energise 
the base sponsorship programme around the 
network for all members of the easyJet leadership 
team. This will improve the understanding 
between people based in the network and those 
based in the central office at Hangar 89.
GEM awards
During the year, we have continued to promote 
our values with our “Going the Extra Mile” 
employee award programme. These awards are 
designed to recognise employees who go beyond 
what can rightly be expected of them in their role 
in order to deliver business success. During the 
year, our people have been submitting nominations 
linked to our customer proposition and values, 
together with revenue generation and cost 
reduction recommendations.
Successful nominations by customer proposition
Low cost Care Convenience
12% 60% 28%
Successful nominations by easyJet value
Safety T eamwork Pioneering Passionate Integrity
20% 36% 5% 23% 16%
easyJet strives to ensure that our recognition 
programmes continue to align employee 
contribution with business results and, to that end, 
the award programme will be revised during 2010.
Charitable donations
Our charity policy is to recognise and devote 
efforts to a single charity each year. This year, our 
chosen charity was The Anthony Nolan Trust.
easyJet has worked with The Anthony Nolan Trust 
to help promote the charity, with activities including 
onboard collections, a “click and give” campaign 
from our website, fundraising activities initiated by 
our people, a feature in the inflight magazine and 
other public relations activities. £50,000 was 
donated to The Anthony Nolan Trust by easyJet  
as a corporate donation.
Political donations
easyJet does not make any donations to any 
political party. This in not in line with our values  
and would be deemed as inappropriate.
Gifts and gratuities
easyJet employees are sometimes sent gifts from 
various companies throughout the year. In order  
to provide clear guidance to employees and avoid 
potential conflicts of interest, we have a strict 
policy that prevents any employee accepting gifts 
over a nominal value of £35. Every Christmas (and 
less frequently, at various times through the year) 
easyJet holds a staff raffle of all the gifts that are 
received. Every employee across Europe is entered 
into the draw and allocated a unique reference 
number. Numbers are then drawn at random and 
winners have the gifts sent directly to their home.
easyJet and the 
environment 
Environmental issues are important to all of us,  
and we are committed to ensuring that both 
easyJet, and the industry as a whole, play our  
part in meeting our environmental responsibilities. 
Everyone at easyJet helps deliver on our 
environmental commitments, from the cabin  
crew who collect waste for recycling to the senior 
management working with politicians on climate 
change and manufacturers to push for next 
generation aircraft. 
Aviation contributes to climate change.  
The long-term predominant effect is from  
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, of which  
aviation contributes around 3% of man-made  
CO2 emissions. The overriding environmental  
issue is tackling climate change. 
The target for the industry must be to reduce  
its emissions over time, and we welcome the  
UK Government’s endorsement of this approach 
when it set industry emissions targets last year.  
The industry faces significant challenges; unlike many 
other sectors, there are no carbon free solutions 
on the horizon, and its high profile may put it at 
significant risk of punitive measures. This is why we 
have been at the forefront of efforts to put aviation 
into the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), a 
framework for reducing EU emissions, and driving 
the development of next generation aircraft. Taking 
responsible steps is not only the right thing to do, 
but it also limits the risk of unreasonable measures 
being imposed on the aviation industry. We are 
pleased to report that aviation’s entry into EU ETS 
is now definite. We took a lead role in this work, 
and we are now working to ensure that easyJet  
is ready for formal entry in 2012. Entry into EU ETS 
carries both risks and opportunities. However,  
we believe that due to our efficiency, we are  
well placed relative to competitors. 34 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Our focus on efficiency is central to delivering our 
environmental commitments, and means we are 
significantly more environmentally efficient than 
most other airlines. Over time this will also give  
us a competitive advantage, as environmentally 
inefficient flying will become increasingly 
unsustainable.
The most significant effect of the emissions of 
mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) from aviation are 
currently considered to be on local air quality 
around airports. All of our aircraft deliveries since 
February 2008 have been fitted with the new 
CFM56 “Tech Insertion” engines that reduce  
NOx emissions by 25% due to better combustion 
processes – almost a quarter of our fleet are now 
fitted with these more environmentally efficient 
engines which are also expected to deliver a 1% 
improvement in CO2 emissions. 
At the airports we operate from, we also have a 
local impact on the environment in the form of 
noise. However, our business model ensures that 
the impact of this on the local environment is less 
than for many other carriers. Our new aircraft are 
amongst the quietest in the industry and we have 
very few operations at night (2300 hrs – 0600 hrs) 
when noise is of the greatest concern. All of the 
aircraft in our fleet are compliant with the latest 
required international noise standards, known as 
“Chapter 3”, but also with the latest more stringent 
standard, known as “Chapter 4”.
T ackling climate change
The overwhelming majority of our greenhouse gas 
emissions come from flying (we estimate less than 
1% of our emissions are non-flying related), and it is 
these emissions which we report on and focus our 
efforts on reducing. We are working to be as 
efficient as possible, in particular by flying new, 
highly efficient aircraft, using our aircraft as 
efficiently as possible, continually focusing on 
reducing the emissions from each flight and 
working to improve the efficiency of the airspace 
we fly in. Due to this, we are the most efficient 
airline on a significant majority of the routes we fly.
Our policy is to expand our fleet through the 
acquisition of the latest technology aircraft, as  
these are more fuel efficient than older models. 
Our average fleet age is 3.5 years, broadly flat 
compared to last year. We also use these aircraft  
as efficiently as possible, by maximising load factors 
and seating density (see “The easyJet efficiency 
advantage”, right).
All aspects of our business model are designed 
around safety and efficiency. This focus on 
efficiency minimises the environmental impact of 
each passenger flight. Our network development 
has generally focused on substituting services in 
markets dominated by inefficient former 
state-owned airlines with our more efficient 
product – 80% of our capacity is deployed in 
established markets. While we aim to grow these 
markets through our low fares, when we enter  
a market we often substitute for existing less 
efficient services. The efficiency that we bring to  
a market can even result an overall reduction in 
emissions in absolute terms, even if total passenger 
numbers increase.
Alongside our operating model we work every  
day on improving the efficiency of our flying, and  
in the last year implemented a number of fuel 
saving initiatives (see page 15 for more detail). 
Finally, by pushing for more efficient airspace use, 
such as Continuous Decent Approaches, we are 
demanding that our service providers match  
our level of commitment.
Taking these together we have set a target  
to reduce our CO2 emissions per passenger  
Km by 3% by 201 1.
The easyJet efficiency advantage
An easyJet passenger is responsible for 22% 
fewer emissions than a passenger on a traditional 
airline to the same destination and using the 
same plane
  The typical seating configuration of an Airbus  q
A319 is 124
1
 seats. Our Airbus A319s fly with 
156 seats which is 26% more seats than the 
normal configuration
  Our average load factor (percentage of seats  q
sold) in financial year 2009 was 85.5%; the 
average load factor for European airlines in 
2009 was 68.0%
2
 
  Therefore, we sell on average 133 seats per  q
flight; a typical European airline would sell  
84 seats per flight
  Each of our Airbus A319s therefore  q
potentially carries 58% more passengers  
per flight than the European norm
  Even taking the additional fuel burn into  q
account for the greater number of passengers, 
we estimate that we burn 22% less fuel than 
the typical European airline operating an  
A319 on the same route
Note 1: Source: Airbus. 
Note 2: Source: AEA for January–August 2009.
500
Shaping the future:
Over 500 global 
companies, including 
easyJet, have signed  
up to the Copenhagen 
Communiqué on 
Climate Change.
– (3.3)%
g CO2/passenger Km
116.20
112.50
106.90
110.00
104.50
98.80
95.70
95.56
90.31
87.30
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Annual report and accounts 2009 35 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Reducing our emissions
During the year, efficiency improvements have  
led to a significant reduction in emissions intensity. 
In particular:
  Total emissions from our operations continue  q
to grow at a slower rate than the total RPKs 
flown, indicating improving environmental 
efficiency
  T o t a l C O q 2 emissions from operations under 
our control grew by 2.5% from 4.3 million 
tonnes to 4.4 million tonnes, less than the  
6.0% increase in RPKs
  C O q 2 emissions per booked passenger trip fell 
by 0.9% from 98.6 Kg per passenger flight to 
97.7 Kg per passenger flight, despite the 2.6% 
increase in average sector length
  A v e r a g e C O q 2 emissions from our flights 
reduced by 3.3% from 90.3 g CO2 per 
passenger kilometre to 87.3 g CO2 per 
passenger kilometre
During the last nine years our emissions of CO2 
per passenger kilometre have reduced by 25%.
easyJet leads the way  
in shaping a greener future
easyJet believes that emissions from aviation will 
need to fall in the long-term, but that achieving this 
will require the industry and governments to work 
together. It will require step changes in efficiency, 
through new technologies, and the right policies 
from governments.
We continue to actively engage with both airframe 
and engine manufacturers in pursuit of this vision 
by 2017, further developing the vision we outlined 
in 2007 – the easyJet ecoJet. We have set out a 
platform for an aircraft that is 25% quieter, emitting 
50% less CO2 and 75% less NOx per passenger 
Km than today’s aircraft. 
We support efforts to include emissions from 
international transport into a post-Kyoto climate 
change agreement, and along with the business 
leaders of over 500 global companies, we have 
signed the Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate 
Change. We are committed to working with policy 
makers across Europe to help shape future policies. 
In addition to our work on ETS, we are working to 
improve the efficiency of airspace and are involved 
in the SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research) 
programme, part of the implementation of the 
EU’s Single European Sky (SES), which aims to 
reduce emissions by at least 10% across Europe. 
22%
more efficient:
We estimate that we burn 
22% less fuel than some of 
our competitors on the  
same route.
Alongside this we are involved in a range of bodies, 
including the Sustainable Aviation group in the UK. 
We also answered the Carbon Disclosure Project 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Questionnaire as part 
of the latest Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP7). 
Crucially, we believe it is important that consumers 
are given full and accurate information on the 
carbon impact of their flight. We have provided a 
carbon calculator on our website, and consumers 
are informed of the emissions they are responsible 
for as they book and are given the opportunity to 
offset the carbon emissions of their flights as part 
of the booking process. Our offset scheme only 
uses United Nations certified carbon credits. 36 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
01 Sir David Michels
Non Executive Interim Chairman
David (1946) was appointed to the Board on  
6 March 2006 and became the Chairman of 
easyJet on 1 July 2009. He is currently Deputy 
Chairman of Marks and Spencer plc and is also 
Non Executive director of Strategic Hotels & 
Resorts, Inc and the Jumeirah Group. David has 
held a number of senior management and plc 
board positions in the leisure industry. He spent  
15 years with Grand Metropolitan, mainly in sales 
and marketing, which culminated in a board 
position as Worldwide Marketing Director. In 1989,  
he became Deputy Chairman of Hilton UK and 
Executive Vice President, Hilton International.  
He joined Stakis in 1991, as Chief Executive,  
and became Group Chief Executive of the Hilton 
Group (formerly Ladbroke Group) in June 2000,  
a position he held until 2006. He was previously 
Senior Independent Director at British Land Plc 
and Arcadia Plc. He is the current President of the 
British Hospitality Association and was knighted in 
June 2006 for services to the hospitality industry.
02 Sir Michael Rake
Non Executive Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Independent Director
Michael (1948) was appointed Deputy Chairman 
on 1 June 2009. He is Chairman of BT Group plc, 
The UK Commission for Employment and Skills,  
as well as a Director of Barclays PLC, McGraw-Hill, 
Inc and the Financial Reporting Council. He is also 
Chairman of the private equity oversight  
group, the Guidelines Monitoring Committee. 
From May 2002 to September 2007, Michael  
was Chairman of KPMG International. Prior to his 
appointment as Chairman of KPMG International, 
he was Chairman of KPMG in Europe and Senior 
Partner of KPMG in the UK.
03 Andrew Harrison
Chief Executive Officer
Andrew (1957) became Chief Executive Officer 
on 1 December 2005. He was previously the Chief 
Executive of RAC plc prior to its acquisition by 
Aviva plc in 2005. Andrew joined Lex Service plc in 
1996 as Chief Executive and led its transformation 
from a vehicle distribution company into RAC plc, 
a strongly-branded, consumer-facing services 
company with 6.5 million members. RAC plc 
delivered strong growth in a variety of consumer 
services, which included BSM, financial and legal 
services, as well as good expansion in business 
services, winning large contracts. The successful 
integration of Lex and RAC resulted in a strong 
rise in profits and a tripling of the share price during 
Andrew’s tenure as Chief Executive. Andrew  
was a Non Executive Director at Emap between 
2000 and 2008 where he also chaired the Audit 
Committee. Prior to Lex Service, Andrew was an 
Executive Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc. 
04 David Bennett
Independent Non Executive Director
David (1962) was appointed to the Board on  
1 October 2005 and is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. He was recently appointed as a 
Director of Pacnet Limited. Prior to this, David was 
an Executive Director of Abbey National Plc and 
was Group Chief Executive of Alliance & Leicester 
plc having previously served as Group Finance 
Director. David held a number of senior 
management positions at Cheltenham & 
Gloucester Building Society and Lloyds TSB. He 
was also an Executive Director of the National 
Bank of New Zealand Limited and is a member of 
the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
05 Sven Boinet
Independent Non Executive Director
Sven (1953) was appointed to the Board of easyJet 
in March 2008. A graduate of Stanford University, 
he was previously CEO of Lucien Barrière Group 
and was recently appointed CEO of Pierre & 
Vacances/Center Parcs Group, a €1.5 billion 
turnover company leader on the continent of 
resort and leisure lodging. He previously held a 
number of senior management roles over a 15 year 
period at the French hotels group, Accor. He was 
also a Non Executive Director of lastminute.com 
from 2003 until its sale to Sabre in 2005.
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
01
04 05
02 03 Annual report and accounts 2009 37 easyJet plc
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
q
06 John Browett
Independent Non Executive Director
John (1963) joined easyJet in September 2007.  
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of DSG 
International plc, a position he has held since 
December 2007. Prior to joining DSG International, 
John was the Operations Development Director 
of Tesco plc. He joined Tesco as Group Strategy 
Director in 1998 and held a number of Executive 
Director positions in the company including 
running Tesco.com from 2000 to 2004 where he 
was responsible for formulating and delivering its 
strategy from launch to profitability.
A graduate of Cambridge University and Wharton 
Business School, John was at the Boston Consulting 
Group between 1993 and 1998. 
07 Professor Rigas Doganis
Independent Non Executive Director
Rigas (1939) was appointed to the Board on  
1 December 2005. Rigas is an aviation consultant 
and strategy adviser to airlines, airports, banks and 
governments around the world. He is Chairman  
of the European Aviation Club in Brussels and a 
Non Executive Director of GMR Hyderabad 
International Airport, India. He is a former 
Chairman/CEO of Olympic Airways and was 
formerly a Non Executive Director of South 
African Airways. Rigas is also a visiting Professor  
at Cranfield University and the author of books  
on aviation economics and management. 
08 Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou
Non Executive Director
Stelios (1967) founded easyJet in 1995.  
He was easyJet’s Non Executive Chairman until  
November 2002 and was reappointed to the 
Board in May 2005. A graduate of the London 
School of Economics and City University Business 
School, Stelios founded his first business, Stelmar 
Tankers, in 1992. This shipping company listed on 
the New York Stock Exchange in 2001 and was 
sold in 2005 to OSG shipping group. 
Since 1999 Stelios has set up some 16 other 
“easy”-branded ventures, which are capitalised  
and managed separately from easyJet within 
easyGroup Holdings Ltd, Stelios’ private investment 
vehicle. An up-to-date list of these businesses can 
be found on www.easy.com. easyGroup owns  
the “easy” brand and licenses it to the various 
easy-branded ventures (including easyJet) and  
is also a major shareholder in easyJet plc. Stelios 
was knighted in November 2006 for services  
to entrepreneurship. 
09 Keith Hammil
Independent Non Executive Director
Keith (1952) was appointed to the Board on  
1 March 2009. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants, is chairman of Travelodge 
and was Chairman of Go, prior to its acquisition by 
easyJet in 2002. He has considerable experience  
as a Director of listed companies, is currently the 
Chairman of Tullett Prebon and Alterian and was 
Chairman of Luminar and Moss Bros. He is also a 
Director of Collins Stewart and has previously 
been a Director of Electrocomponents and 
Cadmus Communications Corp. He was Finance 
Director of WH Smith, Forte and United Distillers 
and a Partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers. He also 
chairs the board of the University of Nottingham.
10 Robert Rothenberg
Non Executive Director
Bob (1950), was appointed to the Board on  
1 August 2009. He is Senior Partner in the 
London-based accountancy firm of Blick 
Rothenberg. Bob is a Governor of Highgate School 
and a Trustee of The Prince’s Foundation for the 
Built Environment. He was made an MBE in the 
2007 New Year’s Honours List for services to 
business and to the community in London.
07
10
08 06
09
The following Directors resigned during the year:  
Dawn Airey (resigned 31 December 2008) 
Sir Colin Chandler (resigned 1 July 2009)  
Jeff Carr (resigned 25 September 2009) 38 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
01 Andrew Harrison
Chief Executive Officer
See Directors’ profiles.
02 Dana Dunne 
Chief Commercial Officer
Dana (1963) joined easyJet in September 2009. 
Before joining easyJet, Dana was CEO of AOL 
Europe, one of the leading online companies  
in Europe. Prior to that he was head of the 
transformation of AOL in the US. Dana has held  
a number of other senior positions in the telecom 
and media industry. At Belgacom he was President 
of one of their four business units, Retail Carrier 
and Network Services, and prior to this was  
MD of the Business Division. At US West, Dana 
was Vice President of Strategy and Development  
for US West, Inc. and President of US West 
International. Prior to this Dana was at McKinsey  
& Company, in their Madrid, Brussels, and London 
offices where he was one of the leaders of their 
telecoms practice. Dana has an MBA from the 
Wharton School of Business, an MA from the 
University of Pennsylvania, and a BA from 
Wesleyan University.
03 Mike Campbell
People Director
Mike (1957) joined easyJet in October 2005  
as People Director. Before joining easyJet Mike 
worked at Wedgwood in a broad role as Director 
of People and Brands and Managing Director for 
Canada, Australia and Pan-Asia. Prior to that  
Mike worked for 14 years at Fujitsu in a variety of 
development and personnel roles across Europe, 
Asia, Africa and the Middle East, ending up as  
Chief Personnel Officer. His early career was  
in education and research. Mike has a BSc in 
Mathematics and Masters in Fluid Dynamics.
04 Tim Newing
IT Director
Tim (1959) joined easyJet in August 2006. He has  
a wide range of experience across the technology 
spectrum and has played a major role in the 
development of the National Lottery over a  
ten year period, first as Technical Manager for IT 
supplier GTECH UK before joining Camelot as 
Head of Projects and Networks in December 
2000 and becoming IT Director in March 2002. 
During this time, Tim successfully developed and 
delivered a series of programmes that saw a period 
of major technological innovation, significantly 
enhancing the systems architecture and key 
business processes within Europe’s biggest lottery 
company, and, at the same time ensuring high 
reliability and availability from the production 
systems. His achievements saw him recognised as 
the 2005 IT Director of the Year in the Jaeger-
LeCoultre Telegraph Business Awards. 
01
04
02
03 Annual report and accounts 2009 39 easyJet plc
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
q
05 Cath L ynn
Director of Network Development and Planning
Cath (1964) spent 12 years in retail for J Sainsbury 
before being head hunted in 1998 by Barbara 
Cassani for the start up of Go where she was part 
of the management buy out team and headed up 
cabin services and on board product development 
and later customer services. Cath played an active 
role in the merger of Go into easyJet. Cath has 
successfully carried out a number of senior 
management roles at easyJet including Head  
of Ground Operations, Head of Airport 
Development and Procurement and Head  
of Network Development.
06 Cor Vrieswijk
Operations Director
Cor (1958) joined easyJet in January 2007 from 
Transavia.com which is a Dutch-based airline 
where he was Chief Operations Officer for nine 
years and brings 25 years’ experience in the airline 
industry. His responsibilities at Transavia.com 
included flight operations, cabin operations, 
engineering and maintenance and ground handling, 
together with relevant experience in marketing, 
human resources and IT. Cor’s first degree was  
in engineering followed up by a Masters Degree  
in organisational sciences. 
07 Warwick Brady
Procurement Director
Warwick (1964) became Procurement Director  
on 5 May 2009. He has significant experience of 
leading low cost airlines in areas ranging from high 
growth and restructuring, through to turnarounds. 
Warwick was Deputy Operations Director at 
Ryanair from 2002 to 2005, where he held various 
executive roles including Deputy CEO of Buzz, 
following its acquisition from KLM. More recently, 
he spent two years in India as Chief Operations 
Officer of Air Deccan. Most recently, Warwick  
was CEO at Mandala Airlines.
08 Mark Adams
Interim Chief Financial Officer
Mark (1964) joined easyJet in September 2009 as 
Interim Chief Financial Officer. Mark is a Chartered 
Accountant and has held a number of senior 
finance roles across a range of sectors, including 
most recently Helphire Group plc, Alpha Airports 
Group plc and STA Travel Group.
06
05 07
08 40 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE 
Principles statement 
easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of corporate 
governance. 
Statement of compliance 
During the year the Board considers that it and the Company have complied 
with the best practice provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance of June 2008 without exception. The Combined 
Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and available on the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website, http://www.frc.org.uk/corporate. 
Board of Directors 
As at 30 September 2009, the Board comprised nine Non Executive 
Directors (including the Interim Chairman) and one Executive Director. 
The roles of Chairman (as fulfilled by Sir Colin Chandler and subsequently Sir 
David Michels as Interim Chairman) and Chief Executive (Andrew Harrison) 
are separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Board. Sir Michael Rake  
is the Senior Independent Non Executive Director and holds the post of 
Deputy Chairman. 
The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, John 
Browett, Sven Boinet and Keith Hamill as Independent Non Executive 
Directors. Dawn Airey, who served for part of the year as Non Executive 
Director, was also regarded as independent. Sir David Michels was also 
regarded as independent until his appointment as Interim Chairman and  
Sir Michael Rake is regarded as independent. 
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou is not regarded as independent due to his significant 
beneficial shareholding in the Company and his prior involvement in an 
executive management capacity. Bob Rothenberg is not considered to be 
independent due to his appointment by Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou pursuant to 
Article 87 of the Company’s Articles of Association, as set out below: 
“87.1 For so long as the Controlling Shareholders directly or indirectly hold  
in aggregate at least 25 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company and the Company is entitled to continue to use the “easyJet” 
brand under the terms of the easyJet Brand Licence, the Controlling 
Shareholders (or either of them) shall be entitled to appoint any two 
persons to be Non Executive Directors and in addition Sir Stelios Haji-
Ioannou shall be entitled to be the Chairman of the Board and of the 
Company. 
“87.2 For so long as the Controlling Shareholders directly or indirectly hold  
in aggregate at least 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company and the Company is entitled to continue to use the “easyJet” 
brand under the terms of the easyJet Brand Licence, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 
shall be entitled to be the Chairman of the Board and of the Company.” 
Board engagement with investors 
The Board continues to consider that it is appropriate for the Chairman to 
be the primary conduit with investors given his experience in liaising with 
shareholders and relative longevity on the Board following his predecessor’s 
departure. 
Each Chairman of the Board has made himself available for investor meetings 
and questions, in person, during the year and has updated the whole Board 
on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors. Each Senior 
Independent Non Executive Director has also acted as an alternative point 
of contact and attended meetings in order to help develop a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. Regular 
feedback is provided to the Board on the opinions of shareholders and an 
investor perception audit is carried out by an independent third party on 
annual basis. 
The Board meets regularly, with 12 meetings having been held during the 
year ended 30 September 2009. All members of the Board are supplied in 
advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be 
considered. It is standard practice for the Non Executive Directors to meet 
without any Executive Directors present on a regular basis during the year, 
usually prior to or immediately after each Board meeting. 
The appointments of Keith Hamill and Sir Michael Rake during the year as 
Non Executive Directors were the result of a search process carried out 
using external recruitment consultants in accordance with longstanding Board 
practice.  
Meetings attended 
Director Board 
Audit 
Committee  
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee 
Sir Colin Chandler  
(resigned 1 July 2009) 9 n/a 3
Andrew Harrison  12  n/a
Jeff Carr (resigned  
25 September 2009) 12  1* n/a
Professor Rigas Doganis  10 n/a 4 3
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou  12 n/a n/a n/a
John Browett 10 4 n/a
Sir David Michels 11 2 4
David Bennett  11 4 4 3
Sven Boinet  9 n/a 3 n/a
Dawn Airey (resigned  
31 December 2008) 1 n/a n/a n/a
Keith Hamill (appointed  
1 March 2009) 8 2 n/a
Sir Michael Rake (appointed 
1 June 2009) 3  n/a n/a
Bob Rothenberg (appointed 
1 August 2009) 2  n/a n/a
* By invitation. 
** Appointed Chairman of the Nominations Committee on 1 July 2009. 
*** Appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2009. 
Sir Colin Chandler resigned during the year with effect from 1 July 2009 and, 
after consideration by the Nominations Committee and the Board, Sir David 
Michels was appointed Interim Chairman with Sir Michael Rake as Deputy 
Chairman.  
Bob Rothenberg was appointed by easyGroup Holdings Limited and Sir 
Stelios Haji-Ioannou pursuant to the rights granted to them under Article 87 
of the Company’s Articles of Association. The members of the Nomination 
Committee also considered and approved his appointment. Separately, the 
Board has taken advice during the year from expert management search and 
development consultants with a view to both enhancing its development of 
key managers and reviewing its succession planning for the top executive 
roles in the Company.  
3*
4*
2*
2*
1*
n/a**
1***
1*
1*
1* 41 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors 
to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of easyJet. During 
the year, the Interim Chairman undertook a performance review of the 
Board using an external evaluation tool provided by a corporate advisory 
company. The process involved a detailed questionnaire completed by each 
of the Directors, one on one discussions with individual Directors and a 
separate review of the outcome by the full Board in a plenary session.  
The performance of the Board (including the Interim Chairman), the Board’s 
Committees and also that of the individual Board Directors was reviewed  
as part of the same process. The Board considered that given the short 
period of time for which Sir David Michels had held the position of Interim 
Chairman it would not be appropriate to have his performance reviewed  
as Chairman by the Senior Independent Non Executive Director prior to  
30 September 2009. 
The Board regularly receives updates, via the Company Secretary, on 
relevant legislation, regulation and governance best practice. 
Board Committees 
Remuneration Committee 
At 30 September 2009, the Remuneration Committee comprised four 
Independent Non Executive Directors, namely Keith Hamill (Committee 
Chairman), David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, and Sven Boinet.  
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility  
for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior 
executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific 
remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and the 
Chairman. In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Company’s  
share option schemes, the Remuneration Committee has met four times 
during the year. 
The Board has reviewed the composition of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year and at the end of June 2009, Sir David Michels stood down 
as Chairman of the Committee in accordance with provision B.2.1 of the 
Combined Code, simultaneously standing down as member. From 1 July 
2009, Keith Hamill was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and to 
act as its Chairman in place of Sir David Michels. The Board is satisfied that 
the Directors who are currently members of this Committee are those who 
are best able to contribute to the Committee’s objectives. 
Shareholders are generally required to approve all new long term incentive 
plans and significant changes to existing plans. Further details of these plans 
can be found in the Report on Directors’ remuneration and the full text of 
the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee is available in the 
governance section of easyJet’s corporate website, 
http://corporate.easyJet.com. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises three Non Executive Directors, all of 
whom are independent. As at 30 September 2009, the Audit Committee 
members were David Bennett (Committee Chairman), John Browett and 
Keith Hamill, who was appointed on 1 March 2009. On 30 June 2009  
Sir David Michels stood down from the Audit Committee in accordance 
with the provisions of the Combined Code. This Committee meets at least 
three times per year. 
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports  
and other financial information in advance of publication, reviewing  
on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance  
and accounting that management and the Board have established and 
reviewing generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes. 
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other 
accounts remains with the Board. The Audit Committee has met four times 
during the course of the year, including an additional meeting in September 
2009 to review the accounting policy issues raised in the statement of  
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou appended to the end of the preliminary results 
announcement of 18 November 2008. 
The Audit Committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of internal 
control, approving and monitoring the internal audit work plan, considering 
issues arising from internal audit’s work, reviewing management’s response  
to internal control issues, approving the external audit fee, considering the 
external audit strategy and plans, reviewing the external auditors’ reports and 
reviewing and approving the annual accounts. Both internal and external 
auditors are given the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit 
Committee without any member of management present. It is standard 
practice for the external auditors to meet with the Audit Committee 
without the executive being present at each Audit Committee meeting. 
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and 
agreed by the main Board. The full text of the terms of reference is  
available in the governance section of easyJet’s corporate website, 
http://corporate.easyJet.com. The key terms set out that the Audit 
Committee will: 
 Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and 
timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal 
financial control system 
 Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors 
 Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, 
financial and senior management, and the Board 
 Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors (in particular, in the context of the provision of additional 
services to the Company) 
 Review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk management processes of 
the Company 
 Review and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and 
management’s responsiveness to any findings and recommendations 
 Assess potential conflicts of interest of Directors on behalf of the Board 
The Audit Committee recently reviewed its terms of reference in line with 
the Financial Reporting Council’s 2008 Guidance on Audit Committees and 
decided that no changes were required.   42 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external 
auditors. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were reappointed auditors of the 
Group at the Annual General Meeting, held in February 2009. In order to 
preserve auditor objectivity and independence, the Board has decided that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will not be asked to provide consulting 
services unless this is in the best interests of the Company. Clause 9 of  
the Audit Committee’s terms of reference sets out the formal policy on  
non-audit work. The auditors are asked on a regular basis to articulate the 
steps that they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence. easyJet 
monitors the auditors’ performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the 
exercise of their duties. This included this year obtaining a report on the 
auditors’ own quality control procedures and a consideration of their annual 
audit, quality and transparency report. In the financial year, easyJet spent  
£0.1 million with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (2008: £0.9 million) in 
respect of non-audit services. 
The Board is satisfied that the Directors who are currently members of this 
Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committee’s 
objectives. David Bennett has served as the Chairman of the Committee 
during the year. David was until 31 July 2009 an Executive Director of Abbey 
National plc prior to which he was Chief Executive Officer and Finance 
Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, experience which the Board considers 
to be recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking the role as 
Chairman of the Committee. 
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members. During  
the year, the Nominations Committee members were Sir Colin Chandler 
(Chairman until 30 June 2009), David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, 
Dawn Airey (until 31 December 2008) and Sir David Michels who took 
over as Chairman on 1 July 2009. Sir Colin Chandler was not considered to 
be independent as he was Chairman of the Group before his retirement. 
However, the Board was satisfied that Sir Colin Chandler’s personal integrity 
and experience made him a highly effective member of the Board and the 
Nominations Committee. The Board is satisfied on the same grounds with 
the appointment of Sir David Michels to the Nominations Committee. 
This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board 
positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and 
balance. In appointing Non Executive Directors, the Board’s practice is to  
use an external recruitment agency. 
The Nominations Committee has met three times during the year. The first 
meeting was to consider and approve the appointment of Keith Hamill.  
The second was to consider a long-term successor to Sir Colin Chandler as 
Chairman of the Company and resulted in the recommendation to the 
Board of Sir Michael Rake. The discussions at this meeting pertaining to the 
appointment of Chairman were chaired by David Bennett, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Combined Code. The third was to consider  
and approve the appointment of Sir David Michels as Interim Chairman  
and Sir Michael Rake as Deputy Chairman. The searches for Keith Hamill  
and Sir Michael Rake both involved the use of independent recruitment 
consultants. Sir David Michels was appointed Interim Chairman without the 
involvement of independent recruitment consultants or open advertising  
as his chairmanship is only intended to be short term until a new Chairman  
is formally appointed. The Committee is utilising independent recruitment 
consultants to identify a suitable successor to Jeff Carr as Group Finance 
Director, and the search process is well advanced. 
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented 
and agreed by the main Board. The full text of the terms of reference is 
available in the governance section of easyJet’s corporate website, 
http://corporate.easyJet.com.  
Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a 
suitable balance is maintained. All job specifications prepared include details 
of the time commitments expected in the role. 
On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and tailored 
induction. Shareholders are offered the chance to meet new Directors. 
Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made available at 
the Annual General Meeting or on request. 
Litigation Committee 
As a result of the proceedings brought by easyGroup IP Licensing Limited  
(a company under the ultimate control of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou) in 2008  
in relation to the clarification of the brand licence, the Board continues to 
operate a separate Litigation Committee to deal with the proceedings  
and all matters related to them. Neither Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou nor  
Bob Rothenberg (as his nominee) sit on this Committee which comprises 
every other Director of the Board. It is anticipated that the Committee shall 
continue to exist until the proceedings and any related circumstances giving 
rise to a conflict of interest between Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou’s interests and 
those of the Company have been resolved. In this respect, a date in or 
around June 2010 for a High Court hearing to adjudicate the dispute is 
expected to be confirmed in due course. 
Relations with investors and the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) 
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly 
with the Board. There is also regular communication with institutional 
investors on key business issues. easyJet has an investor relations department 
which runs an active investor relations programme to facilitate engagement 
with investors including one on one meetings, visits to easyJet’s operations 
and presentations. The investor relations website was upgraded during the 
year with the aim of improving the information available to shareholders 
about easyJet. The website can be accessed at http://corporate.easyjet.com. 
Internal control 
The overall responsibility for easyJet’s systems of internal control and  
for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.  
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures 
lies with the Chief Executive. However, the internal control systems are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but  
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control during the year under the auspices of the Audit 
Committee. No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the 
course of this review. 
The internal control regime is enhanced by the operation of a whistleblower 
reporting function. The system is operated by a specialist external third-party 
service provider and allows employees to report concerns in confidence on 
a no-names basis. The Audit Committee has approved the processes and 
reporting structure for the function and receives regular reports on the 
operation of the function.  43 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Risk management 
A formal bi-annual process is in place to identify, evaluate, manage and 
report upon significant risks faced by the Company and is operated  
by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Risk Committee.  
The process involves a rigorous mandatory reporting regime across  
middle tier management with reporting of risks subject to review by a  
cross-functional Risk Committee which produces consolidated risk reports 
for the Board. 
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined 
by the Directors and has been adopted as follows: 
 Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various 
monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the 
business operations. Key monitoring reviews include those conducted 
continuously in weekly meetings. Operational meetings include the  
Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to discuss safety, security and 
environmental risks. The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more 
regularly where events require, to review safety performance. In addition, 
there are regular Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings; 
 The Executive Management Team meets monthly to consider significant 
current risks. Individual department and overall business performance is 
reviewed. The reporting of significant risks to Executive Management 
Team and the Board of the Company has been enhanced by the risk 
management processes referred to above. Individual department and 
overall business performance is reviewed; 
 Written reporting of current significant risks is provided to the Board on  
a monthly basis. Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the 
Board if they arise; 
 Internal audit considers, reviews and tests internal control and business 
risk matters throughout the Group. Further details of the internal audit 
function’s operations are set out below; 
 As described above, a bi-annual risk and control identification process, 
together with annual control effectiveness testing, is conducted. The key 
risks are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the 
desired level are also identified; 
 Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in 
controls identified. 
The Directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including 
operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate 
the significant risks identified. The procedures used by the Directors to 
review the effectiveness of these controls include: 
 Reports from management. Reporting is structured to ensure that key 
issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the 
Board as appropriate; 
 Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company; and 
 Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from internal and 
external auditors; 
 The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high-level risks, are tested to 
ensure that they are in operation. The results of this testing are reported 
to the Board which considers whether these high-level risks are effectively 
controlled. 
Internal audit 
Internal audit’s work is focused primarily on areas of greatest risk to easyJet, 
as determined by management’s risk identification and assessment processes 
as validated by Executive Directors. The output from this process is 
summarised in an audit plan, which is approved by the Board and Audit 
Committee, and updated on a rolling quarterly basis.  
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Group Finance Director and the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Head of Internal Audit was invited 
to and attended all of the Audit Committee meetings in the year and has 
reported regularly on internal audit reviews to the Executive Management 
Team meetings during the course of the year. A formal audit charter is  
in place.  
The internal audit department reviews the extent to which systems of 
internal control: 
 are effective; 
 are adequate to manage easyJet’s significant risks; and  
 safeguard the Company’s assets. 
The key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance on 
risks and controls to the Board and senior management; and to assist the 
Board with meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.  
The role of internal audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve to 
take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.  44 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION 
Share capital 
Details of the movements in authorised and issued share capital during the 
period are provided in note 18 to the accounts. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s Ordinary Shares are 
set out in the Articles. 
Voting rights and restrictions on  
transfer of shares 
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: 
 Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or 
regulations such as those relating to insider dealing 
 Pursuant to the Company’s code for securities transactions whereby the 
Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the 
Company’s shares 
 Where a person with an interest in the Company’s shares has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in those shares 
 Where a proposed transferee of the Company’s shares has failed to 
furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality (together with such 
evidence as the Directors may require) as required by the Company’s 
Articles of Association 
 The powers given to the Directors by the Company’s Articles of 
Association to limit the ownership of the Company’s shares by non UK 
nationals and powers to enforce this limitation including the right to force 
a sale of any affected shares.  
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights. 
Employee share schemes – rights of control 
The trustee of the easyJet Share Incentive Plan (the Plan) will, on receipt of 
any offer, compromise, arrangement or scheme which affects ordinary shares 
held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of 
any voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares held by the trustee on their 
behalf and/or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary 
shares. The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary shares for 
which it has received no directions or ordinary shares which are unallocated. 
Generally, on a poll the trustee shall vote in accordance with directions given 
by participants. In the absence of directions or on a show of hands the 
trustee shall not vote. 
The trustee of the easyJet Employee Share Trust (the Trust), which is used in 
connection with the easyJet Long-Term Incentive Plan, has the power to 
vote or not vote at its discretion in respect of any shares in the Company 
held in the Trust. 
Substantial interests 
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, the 
Company as at 13 November 2009, has been notified of the following 
disclosable interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary shares: 
 % 
easyGroup Holdings Limited  
(holding vehicle for Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou) 26.94
Polys Holdings Limited  
(holding vehicle for Polys Haji-Ioannou) 11.33
Standard Life Investments 7.00
Schroders plc 5.50
FMR LLC 5.10
Sanderson Asset Management 3.14
Financial calendar 
Financial year end 30 September 2009
Annual General Meeting 18 February 2010
Announcement of 2010 results 
Release of interim results to 31 March 2010 11 May 2010
Results for the year to 30 September 2010 16 November 2010
Registered office 
Hangar 89  
London Luton Airport 
Bedfordshire  
LU2 9PF 
Company registrar 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Auditors 
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the 
Company will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. 
Company number 
3959649  45 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION 
Introduction 
easyJet has produced a resilient performance in a very tough year. The airline 
industry has faced many challenges from a combination of economic 
slowdown, volatile fuel prices and currency fluctuations. The Company also 
faced a number of other difficult issues. 
This report includes two major issues arising during the year: 
1) Setting robust long-term performance targets has been difficult in this 
uncertain environment. As a result, following consultation with our larger 
shareholders and shareholder protection bodies, the Remuneration 
Committee made a change to the easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan’s 
performance measures for awards during the year ended 30 September 
2009. The change supported our strategy of creating sustainable returns for 
our shareholders over the long-term but recognised the unusual short-term 
challenges that required effective management at the time of the awards. 
The Committee remains satisfied that, with this change, the overall packages 
were appropriate during the year under review in light of the prevailing 
economic circumstances. There were no increases to the Executive 
Directors’ basic salaries and nor will there be for the 2010 financial year. 
With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the performance 
measures will revert to the format that operated in the financial year ended 
30 September 2008 for the 2010 financial year (as agreed with investors 
during consultation). Details of the performance conditions for awards made 
during the year under review are set out on page 53.  
2) The Company has experienced issues over the retention of members  
of the Board and Executive Management Team. Accordingly, with effect 
from 15 May 2009, a number of changes were made to the contractual 
arrangements with the Chief Executive to facilitate retention and a period  
of continuity. 
The Corporate Governance section gives full details of the changes that  
have taken place in the leadership team; these have included the need  
for the appointment of an Interim Chairman (leading to a change of  
Senior Independent Director), the appointment of a Deputy Chairman, the 
resignation of the Group Finance Director and the need to replace a number 
of key positions at the Executive Management Team level, including the 
Chief Commercial Officer and the Procurement Director. The Company 
and the Board have also been involved in a number of high profile issues 
including: the accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008, strategy, 
growth targets and the composition of the Board. 
While these issues are now either resolved or subject to ongoing discussions, 
it was considered at that time that it was appropriate and in the best 
interests of easyJet and the shareholders to take action to ensure a period of 
management continuity. This decision took account of the need to maintain 
a management environment which was appropriate for the nature of the 
Company’s operating activities. 
With effect from 15 May 2009, amendments were made to the Chief 
Executive’s terms to secure the retention of his services with easyJet.  
Details of these arrangements are set out on page 49. They include a 
potential lump sum payment equivalent to 12 months salary and on target 
bonus at 100% of salary, which would not be subject to mitigation, in the 
event of termination (other than for bad leaver reasons) or resignation after 
31 March 2010. 
easyJet has sought to maintain dialogue with shareholders and shareholder 
protection bodies over its policies on remuneration. The Committee would 
welcome feedback and questions from shareholders on the contents of this 
report and the Company’s policies. 
Directors’ remuneration 
This report sets out the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration  
and the details of remuneration paid to Directors in the year ended  
30 September 2009. The report has been prepared in accordance with  
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large  
and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports 
Regulations) 2008. Those sections of the report that have been subject to 
audit are identified below. 
Membership and responsibilities of the 
Remuneration Committee 
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are disclosed in the 
Corporate Governance section on pages 40 to 43. The members of the 
Committee are: Keith Hamill (member and Chairman from 1 July 2009),  
Sir David Michels (Chairman until 30 June 2009), David Bennett,  
Sven Boinet and Professor Rigas Doganis. 
The Committee continues to use Hewitt New Bridge Street (‘HNBS’) as 
remuneration advisers. Apart from advice regarding the design, establishment 
and operation of remuneration arrangements, HNBS provides no other 
services to the Company. 
Activities of the Committee 
The Committee has responsibility for determining, within agreed terms of 
reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive 
Directors and the Chairman, and making recommendations to the Board on 
the remuneration of the Company’s senior executives. 
During the year ended 30 September 2009, the Committee considered the 
following items of business: 
 Executive Director and senior executive salary levels  
 Review of the Chairman’s fees 
 Annual bonus awards for the financial year ended 30 September 2008 
 The structure of the annual bonus scheme for the financial year ended  
30 September 2009  
 All employee Save As You Earn scheme grants 
 The performance targets and award levels for grants during the financial 
year ended 30 September 2009 under the easyJet LTIP  
 Testing of performance conditions and vesting of:  
– LTIP awards granted in December 2005 
– Share Options granted in December 2005 
– Chief Executive’s Matching Award granted in February 2006 
 Remuneration arrangements for the Chief Executive and, in particular, 
determining appropriate arrangements to facilitate a period of continuity. 
Policy 
easyJet’s remuneration policy is to reward the Company’s Executive 
Directors and senior executives competitively against the comparative 
market place, in order to recruit and retain Executive Directors and ensure 
that they are properly motivated to perform in the best interests of the 
Company and its shareholders. The Committee also oversees any significant 
changes to easyJet’s employee remuneration structure and sets Directors’ 
remuneration in this context. The Company aims to provide competitive 
‘total pay’ for ‘on target’ performance, with superior rewards for exceptional 
performance.  
The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and senior executives 
comprise a combination of basic salary, annual bonus, participation in share-
based long-term incentive plans, and a very low level of benefits provision. 
easyJet has a ‘no frills’ approach to pension and benefit provision and does 
not include, for example, company cars or final salary pensions as part  
of the package. Therefore, performance related elements form a significant 
proportion of the packages of the Executive Directors and senior executives. 
Reflecting best practice, the Committee regularly reviews the structure of its 
incentive arrangements and, in particular, the balance between short and 
long-term incentives in light of the circumstances prevailing each year.  46 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED 
In response to the difficult trading conditions experienced in the airline industry during the financial year ended 30 September 2008, the Company 
completed an extensive shareholder consultation prior to the 2009 Annual General Meeting to amend LTIP performance targets applying to future awards. 
This enabled the LTIP to take into account the unique short-term challenges that required effective management at the same time as retaining a long-term 
focus on return on equity (“ROE”) which remains a key long-term performance indicator at easyJet. 
For the current financial year, the LTIP has again been amended with ROE once more becoming the sole measure of long-term performance as has been 
the case prior to the financial year under review. Full details of the targets set for the year under review and those that will apply for awards made to the 
senior executive team in the current financial year are set out below. 
In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for 
Executive Directors and senior executives will not raise environmental, social or governance (“ESG”) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible 
behaviour. More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into 
account corporate governance on ESG matters and the Committee takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives. 
The Committee takes account of risk by regular liaison with the Audit Committee to ensure that the remuneration policies adopted do not encourage 
inappropriate risk-taking. 
When setting remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior executives for the current financial year, the Committee considered pay and 
employment conditions elsewhere within easyJet. The Committee was informed of the proposed salary budget for easyJet as a whole and the changes to 
pay practices and staffing levels that took place during the year. These factors were significant contributory factors when determining Executive Directors’ pay 
packages for the current year. The Committee did not consider it appropriate, for example, to award any salary increases for Executive Directors when very 
limited salary increases were given to other staff. 
easyJet’s normal remuneration policies are summarised below: 
Element      Purpose       Policy      Delivery 
Basic salary • Reflect the value of the individual and 
 their role  
• 
• Reviewed annually, effective  
 1 October  
• Agreed when previous results are 
 finalised  
• Benchmarked against similar sized 
 companies and industry comparators 
• Targeted at or around median  
• Considers individual contribution 
• Cash  
• Paid monthly  
• Pensionable 
Annual bonus • Incentivise year on year delivery of 
 short-term performance goals 
• Major measure is profit before tax  
 aligned to long-term targets  
• Other measures based on:  
 – Revenue 
 – Cost  
 – Operational excellence 
• Paid as cash  
• Not pensionable  
• May defer up to half of bonus into  
 LTIP 
Long Term Incentive Plan • Aligned to business plan  
• Incentivise long-term growth in  
 easyJet’s ROE 
• Subject to stretching ROE targets  
• Subject to 175% of salary  
 shareholding requirement 
• Annual grant of performance shares  
• Opportunity to defer bonus and 
 obtain future matching share awards 
Pension • Provide minimum retirement benefits
• Opportunity for Executive to  
 contribute to their retirement 
• Defined contribution  
• HMRC approved salary sacrifice  
 arrangement 
• Monthly employer contribution of  
 7% of basic salary  
• Non contributory  
• Salary sacrifice for employee  
 contributions 
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the Company’s Non Executive Directors, with Non Executive Directors exempting themselves from 
discussions and voting as appropriate. When determining the remuneration of Non Executive Directors, account is taken of practice adopted in other similar 
organisations, committees chaired and anticipated time commitment. 
Reflect skills and experience 47 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Basic salary  
The basic salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed annually and are set taking account of the salary required to deliver an overall total package that 
reflects a number of factors including: 
 practice adopted in companies of a broadly similar size 
 a formal appraisal of their contribution to the business 
 the competitive environment 
 pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere within easyJet 
Annual bonus scheme 
All Executive Directors participate in an annual bonus scheme. The maximum annual bonus opportunity of the Chief Executive during the year was  
200% of salary, with a 100% of salary maximum for other senior executives. The maximum will remain at these levels during the financial year ending  
30 September 2010. 
Bonus targets are aligned with easyJet’s vision and values, with specific targets around easyJet’s key performance indicators. The performance targets that will 
apply to Executive Directors’ annual bonus opportunities in the financial year ending 30 September 2010 are as follows: 
Measure % maximum bonus opportunity 
Profit before tax 75%
Customer targets 10%
Operating costs  10%
On time performance 5%
Descriptions of the Executive Directors’ performance against the targets set for the year under review are set out in the emoluments table on pages 50  
to 51. 
Long term incentive plan 
The easyJet LTIP provides for annual awards of performance shares and matching shares. The plan was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and 
amended at the 2008 AGM with the performance targets further amended during the year under review.  
The annual award limit for performance shares is 200% of basic salary. 
Matching share awards are linked to the investment of up to 50% of annual bonus into easyJet shares, which are then matched on a 1:1 gross basis.  
This is the same as in the financial year ended 30 September 2008. No matching awards were granted in the financial year ended 30 September 2009. 
Performance and matching share awards vest three years after grant, subject to continued employment and the Company achieving the ROE targets.  
This measure was chosen as it is a fundamental measure of financial performance and is linked to the generation of shareholder returns. The Board controls 
the rate of capital growth and balance sheet gearing, which ensures that ROE remains an appropriate measure of long-term performance.  
The targets that applied during the year under review were amended to include short-term targets which reflected current circumstances. This was 
considered appropriate due to the difficulties that existed in relation to setting robust long-term targets at a time of exceptional fuel price volatility and 
uncertain economic circumstances. easyJet’s major shareholders and the shareholder protection bodies were consulted on the revisions which are set out 
under the Executive Directors’ Share Awards table on page 52.   48 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED 
LTIP awards to be granted in 2010 
Since the Committee now considers it possible to set robust long-term ROE performance targets there will not be a short-term performance element to 
the targets that will apply during the current financial year. Instead, the conditions will mirror the structure approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGM. 
Reverting to the same structure of target as operated immediately following the 2008 AGM is consistent with the future award policy communicated to our 
major shareholders during the 2009 consultation with the actual target ranges reflecting current economic conditions. The targets for awards to be made in 
financial year 2010 (with a base year of 30 September 2009) will be: 
Awards up to 100% of salary 
 
Threshold  
(25% vests) 
Target 
(50% vests) 
Maximum 
(100% vests) 
Return on equity (year ending 30 September 2012) 9.0% 12.0% 15.0%
Awards over 100% of salary 
 
Threshold  
(25% vests) 
Target 
(50% vests) 
Maximum 
(100% vests) 
Return on equity (year ending 30 September 2012) 11.0% 13.0% 15.0%
ROE continues to be the Committee’s preferred long-term performance measure for a number of reasons, including:  
 It is a fundamental measure of easyJet’s underlying performance and is directly linked to the generation of returns to shareholders  
 It is directly connected to the self-sustaining growth rate of the business and incentivises management to achieve the appropriate balance between 
growth and returns, to deliver the best shareholder value 
The performance targets detailed above that apply to the part of an award over 100% of salary are set to be tougher due to the higher potential quantum 
available. 
All employee share plan participation 
easyJet encourages share ownership throughout the Company by the use of a Share Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Plan. Take-up of the schemes remains 
very positive with over 80% of eligible staff now participating in one or more of the plans. Executive Directors may also participate in these plans which are 
summarised in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 31. 
Previous share awards 
Executive Share Option Scheme 
The LTIP replaced the existing Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes (the ‘ESOS’) as the primary long term incentive arrangement 
for the Executive Directors and other senior employees although the ESOS was retained for flexibility (e.g. options were granted to the Chief Executive 
under the ESOS on his appointment in 2005). However, there were no grants during the year and there is no current intention to make regular grants of 
options under the ESOS. 
Shareholding guideline 
Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to 175% of basic salary. This was increased from 100% of salary following  
the 2008 AGM. 
For senior executives who report to the Executive Management Team and receive LTIP awards, a 50% share ownership guideline will apply. 
Pension contributions  
easyJet makes a contribution for Executive Directors, to a defined contribution pension scheme, of 7% of basic salary. While individuals are not obliged  
to make a contribution, easyJet operates a pension salary sacrifice arrangement where individuals can exchange their salary for Company paid pension 
contributions. Where individuals exchange salary this reduces easyJet’s National Insurance contributions. easyJet credits half of this saving to the individual’s 
pension (currently 6.4% of the amount exchanged). 
External appointments 
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one appointment on an external board or committee so long as this is not deemed to interfere with the 
business of the Group. Any fees received in respect of these appointments are retained directly by the relevant Executive Director.  49 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Service contracts 
The service contracts of the Executive Directors that served during the year were of no fixed term.  
Andrew Harrison’s service contract is terminable by the Company giving 12 months notice or by Andrew giving six months notice. 
Provisions applying to termination prior to 31 March 2010 
On termination of Andrew’s employment he will receive a pro-rated bonus for the year of his termination based on performance up to the date of his 
termination. In addition, the Company has the right to pay Andrew, in lieu of notice and on a monthly basis until he secures commensurate employment, an 
amount equal to base salary, pension and bonus earned in the previous year.  
Provisions applying to termination or resignation after 31 March 2010 
In order to facilitate retention and a period of continuity, Andrew Harrison’s contractual provisions on termination and resignation were revised on 15 May 
2009. 
The revised terms provide that in relation to a termination by the Company (other than for certain defined bad leaver reasons) or on resignation, Andrew 
Harrison has an entitlement to receive a payment in lieu of notice in respect of the full 12 month notice period with no obligation to mitigate the payment, 
which would also be provided as a single lump sum. The payment in lieu of notice would include the value of 12 months’ basic salary, 12 months’ pension 
contributions and the on target level of annual bonus of 100% of salary. Based on the current level of salary this would amount to £1,220,000. He would also 
receive a pro-rated bonus for the year of his termination based on performance up to the date of his termination. In addition, it was agreed that Andrew 
Harrison would be considered a good leaver for the LTIP award made in December 2007, subject to the usual pro-rating for performance and service.  
This is explained on page 54. 
Jeff Carr’s contract was changed during the year under review, in line with a new policy for Executive Directors, to be terminable on 12 months notice by 
both parties (formerly six months). Jeff resigned during the year and his resignation was effective on 25 September 2009. There were no express provisions 
for compensation on termination in Jeff’s service contract. No payment was made, or will be made, in relation to his departure. 
The Company’s relationship with its Non Executive Directors is governed by letters of appointment. The Non Executive Directors are appointed for a 
period not exceeding three years and their appointment may be terminated with three months notice without compensation.  
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou does not have a letter of appointment and his appointment is of no fixed term. He is however subject to re-election by shareholders 
every three years, and was last re-elected by shareholders in February 2009, although this does not prejudice his rights under the relationship agreement with 
the Company disclosed at the time of the Company’s IPO, which are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual report on page 40. 
Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment currently in place for Directors who served during the year are as follows: 
 
Date of current 
letter of appointment Unexpired term Notice period 
Provision for 
compensation 
Executive 
Andrew Harrison 15 September 2005
(amended 15 May 2009)
n/a 12 months 
(6 months
from executive)
12 months
Jeff Carr (resigned 25 September 2009) 24 November 2004 n/a 6 months
Non Executive 
Sir Colin Chandler (resigned 1 July 2009) 26 September 2007 n/a 3 months None
Sir David Michels 26 September 2007 12 months 3 months None
Sir Michael Rake (appointed 1 June 2009) 17 April 2009 2 years 9 months 3 months None
Dawn Airey (resigned 31 December 2008) 26 September 2007 n/a 3 months None
David Bennett 26 September 2007 12 months 3 months None
Sven Boinet  11 February 2008 1 year 5 months 3 months None
John Browett  27 September 2007 12 months 3 months None
Professor Rigas Doganis 26 September 2007 12 months 3 months None
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou n/a n/a n/a n/a
Keith Hamill (appointed 1 March 2009) 23 December 2008 2 years 5 months 3 months None
Bob Rothenberg (appointed 1 August 2009) 29 July 2009 2 years 10 months 3 months None
Non Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are aligned to the standard terms appended to the Combined Code. 
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment are available on request from the Company Secretary. 
3 December 2008)
12
 
months
 
(from 50 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED 
Total shareholder return 
Given the nature of easyJet’s operations, the Committee does not consider that there is a suitable comparator group against which to measure total 
shareholder return. However, for completeness, the following graphs show the Company’s performance compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 
and that of a group of European Airlines
1
. The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it consists of companies of similar size to easyJet. The group of European 
Airlines comprises companies operating in a comparable sector. 
 
Note 1: British Airways, Lufthansa-Swiss, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have been included in the comparative European Airlines group.  
Directors’ emoluments (audited) 
Details of emoluments, paid or payable by easyJet to the Directors of easyJet plc who served in the financial year ended 30 September 2009 are as follows: 
     Pension contributions 
 
Salary/fee 
2009 
Bonus 
2009 
Total 
2009 
Total  
2008 2009 2008 
Executive  
Andrew Harrison 590 1,043 1,633 856 53 41
Jeff Carr (resigned 25 September 2009) 356 – 356 441 27 25
Non Executive  
Sir Colin Chandler (resigned 1 July 2009) 150 – 150 201 – –
Sir David Michels 114 – 114 65 – –
Sir Michael Rake (appointed 1 June 2009) 23 – 23 – – –
Dawn Airey (resigned 31 December 2008) 11 – 11 45 – –
David Bennett 55 – 55 55 – –
Sven Boinet  45 – 45 26 – –
John Browett  45 – 45 45 – –
Professor Rigas Doganis 45 – 45 45 – –
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou –– – – – –
Keith Hamill (appointed 1 March 2009) 29 – 29 – – –
Diederik Karsten (resigned 21 February 2008) –– – 18 – –
Bob Rothenberg (appointed 1 August 2009) 8– 8 – – –
 1,471 1,043 2,514 1,797 80 66
The table above excludes gains as a result of the exercise of share options. Details of share options and share awards and any movements during the year 
are shown on page 52. 
Pension contributions for Andrew Harrison and Jeff Carr shown above are greater than 7% of salary as they include half of the National Insurance saving 
resulting from employee contributions made through easyJet’s salary exchange scheme (equivalent to 6.4% of the sum sacrificed). Andrew Harrison 
exchanged £195,000 for additional pension contributions in the year (2008: £187,000) and Jeff Carr exchanged a total of £27,000 (2008: £27,000). 
There was a pay freeze in place during the year under review for Executive Directors and the wider senior management population. Andrew Harrison’s 
salary remained at £590,000 and Jeff Carr’s salary remained at £360,000. It is not proposed that basic salary will be increased for Executive Directors in the 
2010 financial year.  51 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Achievement of Bonus for 2009 
Andrew Harrison will be paid a bonus of £1,042,530 (177% of salary) in the year ending 30 September 2010 to reflect performance in the year ended  
30 September 2009 (2008: 45% of salary).  
Jeff Carr resigned on 25 September 2009 and will not be paid a bonus for the year ended 30 September 2009.  
This bonus was earned against challenging targets that were set at the start of the financial year under review. These targets reflected the key short-term 
objectives of the business arising out of the exceptional fuel price volatility and economic uncertainty that was prevalent at the start of the financial year. 
Performance over the year was stronger than the ‘target’ expectations set at the beginning of the year and resulted in the bonus earned being towards the 
top end of the bonus range. In a difficult consumer environment, a strong revenue performance helped to offset an increase in unit fuel costs equivalent to 
£86.1 million and the Committee is satisfied that easyJet’s performance is robust in relation to other airlines. 
Bonuses were determined by the Remuneration Committee in light of the Company’s performance against a range of key financial and operational metrics. 
Performance achievement against these key performance indicators is shown below: 
 
Directors’ interests 
The following Directors hold direct interests in the share capital of easyJet: 
 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 
Sir David Michels 12,100 12,100
Sir Michael Rake 3,100 –
David Bennett 10,000 10,000
John Browett 4,705 4,705
Professor Rigas Doganis 13,600 13,600
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 66,076,451 66,076,451
Andrew Harrison 442,711 682,616
The interests of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou are held through easyGroup Holdings Limited. 
On 12 October 2009, Andrew Harrison purchased 31 partnership shares and was allocated 31 matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.  
On 10 November 2009, Andrew Harrison purchased 34 partnership shares and was allocated 34 matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.  52 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED 
Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the easyJet UK Employee Share Ownership Trust, the easyJet Overseas Employee 
Share Ownership Trust, the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Share Incentive Plan Trust (the “Trusts”). At 30 September 2009, ordinary shares held in the 
Trusts were as follows: 
 Number 
Share Incentive Plan Trust (unallocated as employees are not entitled to these shares 
until the performance conditions attached to them are met) 1,883,799
Total unallocated 1,883,799
Long Term Incentive Plan (allocated) 292,012
Share Incentive Plan (allocated) 150,872
Total held by UK Trust (allocated) 9,229
Total held by Overseas Trust (allocated) 44,872
Total allocated 496,985
 2,380,784
Directors’ share awards (audited) 
Details of share options and share awards under the schemes described above granted to the Directors of the Company and any movements during the 
year are shown in the following table: 
Andrew Harrison 
Scheme 
No. of shares/  
options at   
30 September   
2008
1
 
Shares/options 
granted in year 
Shares/options 
lapsed in year 
Shares/options 
exercised in year 
No. of shares/ 
options at  
30 September 
2009
1
 Date of grant 
Exercise 
price (£) 
Market 
price on 
exercise 
date (£) 
Date from which 
exercisable Expiry date 
A 736,153  – 338,630 – 397,523 1 Dec 2005 3.30 – 1 Dec 2008 1 Dec 2015
B 9,095  – 4,183 – 4,912 1 Dec 2005 3.30 – 1 Dec 2008 1 Dec 2015
C 90,756  – – – 90,756 1 Dec 2006 – – 1 Dec 2009 1 Jun 2010
C 104,796  – – – 104,796 3 Dec 2007 – – 3 Dec 2010 3 Jun 2011
C 102,135  – – – 102,135 29 Feb 2008 – – 28 Feb 2011 28 Aug 2011
C –  358,818 – – 358,818 16 Jan 2009 – – 16 Jan 2012 16 Jul 2012
D 75,630  – – – 75,630 1 Dec 2006 – – 1 Dec 2009 1 Jun 2010
D 88,529  – – – 88,529 3 Dec 2007 – – 3 Dec 2010 3 Jun 2011
E 267,109  – 111,294 155,815 – 8 Feb 2006 – 3.02 8 Feb 2009 8 Aug 2009
F 3,589  – – 3,589 – 2 Jun 2006 2.61 3.02 1 Aug 2009 1 Feb 2010
G 612  – – – 612 1 Dec 2006 – – 1 Dec 2009 n/a
G 487  – – – 487 1 Dec 2007 – – 1 Dec 2010 n/a
H 838  499 – – 1,337 See note 2 below 
Jeff Carr 
Scheme 
No. of shares/  
 options at   
30 September   
2008
1
 
Shares/options 
granted in year 
Shares/options 
lapsed in year 
Shares/options 
exercised in year 
No. of shares/ 
options at  
25 September  
2009* Date of grant 
Exercise 
price (£) 
Market 
price on 
exercise 
date (£) 
Date from which 
exercisable Expiry date 
A 108,079  – – 108,079 – 2 Jun 2005 2.32 3.31 2 Jun 2008 2 Jun 2015
B 12,928  – – 12,928 – 2 Jun 2005 2.32 3.31 2 Jun 2008 2 Jun 2015
C 75,793  – 25,264 50,529 – 1 Dec 2005 – 2.98 1 Dec 2008 1 Jun 2009
C 50,420  – – – 50,420 1 Dec 2006 – – 1 Dec 2009 1 Jun 2010
C 63,943  – – – 63,943 3 Dec 2007 – – 3 Dec 2010 3 Jun 2011
C 62,320  – – – 62,230 29 Feb 2008 – – 28 Feb 2011 28 Aug 2011
C –  218,939 – – 218,939 16 Jan 2009 – – 16 Jan 2012 16 Jul 2012
D 8,881  – – – 8,881 3 Dec 2007 – – 3 Dec 2010 3 Jun 2011
G 487  – – – 487 1 Dec 2007 – – 1 Dec 2010 n/a
* Jeff Carr’s outstanding share awards were forfeited on his resignation effective 25 September 2009.  
No Non Executive Director has been granted any share options or awards. 
The closing share price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 30 September 2009 was £3.79 and the range during the year ended 30 September 2009 was 
£2.06 to £4.04.  53 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Notes  
A Non-Approved Discretionary Share Option Scheme  
B Approved Discretionary Share Option Scheme  
C Long Term Incentive Plan – Performance Shares 
D Long Term Incentive Plan – Matching Shares  
E Chief Executive Officer Recruitment Award 
F Sharesave (SAYE) scheme 
G Share Incentive Plan – Free shares  
H Share Incentive Plan – Matching Shares  
Note 1: The number of shares are calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior to grant (except for the June 2005 ESOS 
award which was based on the previous practice of the average middle-market price of the five days prior to grant). As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the 
Committee in advance of the award, by reference to the share price following announcements of results. 
Note 2: Participants purchase shares monthly under the plan and the company provides one matching share for each share purchased. These are first available for vesting three years after purchase. 
The potential vesting of outstanding awards if the performance were based at the end of the year under review is shown at the end of this section. 
The performance criteria for vesting of these share options and awards are as follows: 
Discretionary Share Option Schemes (A&B)  
Based on the average annual growth in earnings per share (EPS), where no shares vest if EPS growth is less than RPI plus 5%, 30% vest where EPS growth is 
RPI plus 5% and 100% vest where EPS growth is RPI plus 20%. Straight-line vesting will occur between these points. 
In relation to the provision, the Committee agreed on 15 May 2009 to facilitate Andrew Harrison’s continued service at easyJet and agreed to exercise its 
discretion to extend the period for which his vested share options can be exercised to six months from the termination date. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (C&D) 
Awards prior to those made during the year under review were subject to the achievement of the following ROE targets: 
Grant date Basis year 
Threshold  
(25% vests) 
Target 
(50% vests) 
Maximum 
(100% vests) 
December 2005 30 September 2006 8.4% 8.8% 10.0%
 30 September 200711.8% 12.4%13.0%
 30 September 200812.5% 13.2%15.0%
December 2006 30 September 2009 12.5% 14.0% 16.5%
December 2007 30 September 2010 12.5% 14.0% 16.5%
February 2008 30 September 2010 13.5% 15.5% 17.5%
Straight-line vesting will occur between the threshold, target and maximum targets set out above. The returns on equity shown for the February 2008 grant 
relate to awards in excess of 100% of basic salary. 
The December 2006 award is due to vest in December 2009. The award has performance targets relating to return on equity achieved in the year ended 
30 September 2009. However, the targets have not been met and the award will not vest. 
The performance conditions that applied to the awards made during the year under review retained ROE as the primary measure of long-term 
performance. However, to enable the LTIP to take into account the unique short-term challenges that the airline industry was subject to during the year 
under review, additional short-term targets were also set for part of the awards. 
The actual targets set reflected the extensive discussions that were undertaken with easyJet’s major shareholders and the shareholder protection bodies. 
Both the range of ROE targets set and the short-term targets were felt to take full account of both (i) the exceptional volatility in the price of oil and (ii) 
economic uncertainty triggered by the banking crisis.   54 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED 
The actual targets that applied to the awards of performance shares made to Executive Directors during the year under review were as follows: 
Awards up to 100% of salary 
 
Threshold  
(25% vests) 
Target 
(50% vests) 
Maximum 
(100% vests) 
Return on equity (year ending 30 September 2011) 7.0% 10.0% 13.0%
Awards between 100% and 175% of salary 
Vesting will take place based on the satisfaction of both of the following two targets: 
 The award is subject to scale-back to the extent that a range of performance targets relating to the year ended 30 September 2009 are not met. 
Achievement of these targets, at 88.35%, was equal to the percentage of bonus payable, and so the award has been scaled back by 11.65%. 
 ROE for the year ending 30 September 2011 must be at least 10% in order for the remaining award to vest. 
No matching shares were granted in the year under review. 
To facilitate a period of continuity and the retention of Andrew Harrison’s services to the Company, in May 2009 it was agreed that Andrew Harrison would 
be treated as a ‘good leaver’ in respect of the LTIP award (performance and matching shares) granted in December 2007 upon his departure from easyJet, 
provided his service is to continue to 31 March 2010. The maximum number of performance and matching shares covered by this change is 193,325.  
Any vesting would be subject to pro-rating for both performance and service. Based on performance for the year ended 30 September 2009, none of  
these shares would vest. 
With regard to future long-term incentive plan targets, it was agreed with investors during consultation that easyJet would revert to using ROE as the  
sole performance metric as soon as it was felt practicable to do so (e.g. once fuel price volatility had returned to more ‘normal’ levels). As a result, the 
performance targets that are to apply to awards made in the current year will be based on challenging ROE targets alone. These targets are considered  
to take into full account the current economic environment.  
Chief Executive Officer Recruitment Award (E) 
50% of the award is based on the average annual growth in EPS. No shares vest if EPS growth is less than RPI plus 5%, 30% vest where EPS growth is RPI 
plus 5% and 100% vest where EPS growth is RPI plus 20%. Straight-line vesting occurs between these points. 
Potential vesting of outstanding awards 
The table below shows how vesting of outstanding share awards plans would take place if the performance was based on that for the year under review. 
Grant date Actual basis year Vesting 
December 2006 30 September 2009 0%
December 2007 30 September 2010 0%
February 2008 30 September 2010 0%
January 2009 30 September 2011 0%
 
 
On behalf of the Board 
 
Keith Hamill 
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
  55 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
ST A TEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the report on 
Directors’ remuneration and the accounts in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Group  
and parent company accounts in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.  
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the accounts; and 
 prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts and the report 
on Directors’ remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 36  
and 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
 the Group and Company accounts, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and 
Company; and 
 the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
Company, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face. 
In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors’ report is 
approved, and in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006: 
(a) so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information  
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
(b) he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director  
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
The Annual report on pages 1 to 55 was approved by the Board of 
Directors and authorised for issue on 16 November 2009 and signed  
on behalf of the Board.  
  
Sir David Michels  Andrew Harrison 
Director   Director
  56 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
ACCOUNTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF easyJet PLC 
We have audited the accounts of easyJet plc for the year ended  
30 September 2009 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, 
Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated 
statement of recognised income and expense, Company balance sheet, 
Company cash flow statement, and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the parent company accounts, as applied  
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors  
and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set  
out on page 55, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the accounts 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the accounts. 
Opinion on accounts 
In our opinion: 
 the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and  
of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2009 and of the 
Group’s profit and Group’s and parent company’s cash flows for the  
year then ended; 
 the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 the parent company accounts have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
 the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 
4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
 the part of the Report on Directors’ remuneration to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and 
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for 
which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion: 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
 the parent company accounts and the part of the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or 
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern; 
and 
 the parts of the Corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review. 
 
Roger de Peyrecave (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
St Albans, Hertfordshire 
16 November 2009 
  57 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
CONSOLIDA TED INCOME ST A TEMENT 
 Notes 
Year ended 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September
 2008
£ million 
Passenger revenue  2,150.5 1,995.7
Ancillary revenue  516.3 367.1
Total revenue  2,666.8 2,362.8
Ground handling  (255.9) (212.2)
Airport charges  (481.5) (397.2)
Fuel  (807.2) (708.7)
Navigation  (232.3) (195.7)
Crew  (306.6) (263.2)
Maintenance  (161.6) (147.5)
Advertising  (47.0) (46.5)
Merchant fees and commissions  (33.5) (33.7)
Aircraft and passenger insurance  (11.3) (9.1)
Other costs  (104.8) (87.5)
GB Airways integration costs  – (12.9)
EBITDAR  225.1 248.6 
 
Depreciation 8 (55.4) (44.4)
Profit on disposal of assets held for sale 11 11.0 – 
Amortisation of intangible assets 7 (4.4) (2.5)
Aircraft lease costs  (116.2) (110.7)
Operating profit  60.1 91.0 
 
Interest receivable and other financing income  22.5 53.2 
Interest payable and other financing charges  (27.9) (34.0)
Net finance (charges) / income 2 (5.4) 19.2 
Profit before tax 3 54.7 110.2 
 
Tax credit / (charge) 5 16.5 (27.0)
Profit for the year 20 71.2 83.2 
 
Earnings per share, pence  
Basic 6 16.9 19.8
Diluted 6 16.6 19.4 58 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEET 
 Notes 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
30 September 
2008
£ million
(Restated) 
(note 23) 
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 7 365.4 365.4 
Other intangible assets 7 81.7 80.6 
Property, plant and equipment 8 1,612.2 1,102.6 
Derivative financial instruments 24 7.8 21.3 
Loan notes 9 12.6 12.0 
Restricted cash 13 48.0 42.9 
Other non-current assets 10 62.7 61.1 
Deferred tax assets 5 0.4 0.5 
  2,190.8 1,686.4
Current assets  
Assets held for sale 11 73.2 194.9 
Trade and other receivables 12 241.8 236.9 
Derivative financial instruments 24 68.0 96.5 
Restricted cash 13 24.3 23.3 
Money market deposits 13 286.3 230.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 13 788.6 632.2 
  1,482.2 1,414.1
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 14 (750.7) (653.0)
Borrowings 15 (117.6) (56.7)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (91.1) (76.0)
Current tax liabilities  (57.7) (73.2)
Maintenance provisions 17 (45.1) (55.9)
  (1,062.2) (914.8)
Net current assets  420.0 499.3 
 
Non-current liabilities  
Borrowings 15 (1,003.0) (570.2)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (2.6) (0.3)
Non-current deferred income 16 (52.6) (68.8)
Maintenance provisions 17 (168.6) (160.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 5 (76.7) (107.8)
  (1,303.5) (907.5)
Net assets  1,307.3 1,278.2 
 
Shareholders’ funds  
Share capital 18 106.0 105.7 
Share premium 20 642.5 640.2 
Hedging reserve 20 (23.9) 27.6 
Translation reserve 20 (0.4) 0.1 
Retained earnings 20 583.1 504.6 
  1,307.3 1,278.2
The accounts on pages 57 to 87 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 16 November 2009 and signed on behalf  
of the Board. 
  
Sir David Michels  Andrew Harrison 
Director   Director 59 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
CONSOLIDA TED CASH FLOW  
ST A TEMENT  
 Notes 
Year ended 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September 
2008
£ million 
Cash flows from operating activities  
Cash generated from operations 21 164.5 290.4 
Net interest and other financing charges (paid) / received  (20.6) 20.0 
Tax paid  (9.4) (14.2)
Net cash generated from operating activities  134.5 296.2 
 
Cash flows from investing activities  
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 23 – (118.0)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (515.0) (324.0)
Proceeds from sale of assets held for sale  77.8 30.0 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  12.4 0.5 
Purchase of other intangible assets  (5.5) (6.4)
Redemption of loan notes  0.3 – 
Proceeds from sale of investment in associate  – 0.3 
Net cash used by investing activities  (430.0) (417.6)
 
Cash flows from financing activities  
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  2.6 6.9 
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes  (1.6) (4.6)
Proceeds from drawdown of bank loans  543.1 40.2 
Repayment of bank loans  (69.4) (43.0)
Repayment of capital elements of finance leases  (3.6) (2.7)
Net increase in money market deposits  (29.0) (8.7)
(Increase) / decrease in restricted cash  (1.9) 17.8 
Net cash generated from financing activities  440.2 5.9 
 
Effect of exchange rate changes  11.7 28.6 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  156.4 (86.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  632.2 719.1 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 13 788.6 632.2
  60 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
CONSOLIDA TED ST A TEMENT OF  
RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 
 Notes 
Year ended 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September 
2008
£ million 
Cash flow hedges  
 Fair value (losses) / gains in year 20 (214.3) 143.6 
 Losses / (gains) transferred to income statement 20 228.8 (87.6)
 Gains transferred to property, plant and equipment 20 (85.9) (0.3)
 Related tax 20 19.9 (14.4)
Translation differences on foreign currency net investments 20 (0.5) 0.1 
Net (expense) / income recognised directly in shareholders’ funds  (52.0) 41.4 
 
Profit for the year  71.2 83.2 
Total recognised income and expense attributable to shareholders  19.2 124.6
  61 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
1 Accounting policies 
Statement of compliance 
easyJet plc (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (“easyJet” or the “Group” as applicable) is a low cost airline carrier operating principally in Europe.  
The Company is a public limited company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol EZJ and is incorporated  
and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Bedfordshire LU2 9PF. 
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, taking into account 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations and those parts of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB). References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to IFRS as adopted by the EU.  
Basis of preparation 
The accounts are prepared based on the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments 
that are measured at fair value. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these accounts. 
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the accounts, the Directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 16 to 19 as well as 
easyJet’s principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 28 to 29. Based on easyJet’s cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied that easyJet 
will be able to operate within the level of its facilities and available cash for the foreseeable future. For this reason easyJet continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing its accounts. 
Significant judgements, estimates and critical accounting policies 
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. 
Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, events or actions may mean that actual results ultimately differ  
from those estimates, and these differences may be material. The estimates and the underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly. 
The following four accounting policies are considered critical accounting policies as they require a significant amount of management judgement and the 
results are material to easyJet’s accounts. 
Goodwill and landing rights (note 7) 
Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually. easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route network. In making this 
assessment, easyJet has considered the manner in which the business is managed including the centralised nature of its operations and the ability to open or 
close routes and redeploy aircraft and crew across the whole route network. The value in use of the cash-generating unit is determined by discounting future 
cash flows to their present value. When applying this method, easyJet relies on a number of estimates including its strategic plans, fuel prices, exchange rates, 
long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which it operates and its pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. 
Assets held for sale (note 11) 
When an aircraft is held for sale, the carrying value of the asset is assessed by comparison with its fair value less costs to sell the asset. The underlying market 
for aircraft is conducted in US dollars. In the current economic environment, where the market for used aircraft is thin, there are few transactions against 
which a market comparison of fair value can be made. In these circumstances easyJet uses data available from third party agencies and indications of interest 
from prospective purchasers to estimate the fair value at the balance sheet date. The time it will take to sell the aircraft held for sale is also uncertain, and 
asset values in sterling could rise or fall before a sale is completed. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions (note 17) 
easyJet incurs liabilities for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the term of the lease. These arise from legal and 
constructive contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor. To discharge these obligations, easyJet will also 
normally need to carry out one heavy maintenance check on each of the engines and the airframe during the lease term.  
A charge is made in the income statement based on hours or cycles flown to provide for the cost of these obligations. Estimates required include the likely 
utilisation of the aircraft, the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur, the condition of the aircraft and the lifespan 
of life-limited parts. The bases of all estimates are reviewed once each year, and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material 
change to an estimate, such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, increased or decreased utilisation, or changes in the cost of heavy 
maintenance services. 
Tax (note 5) 
In drawing up the accounts, estimates are made of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities for each jurisdiction in which easyJet operates. These 
estimates are affected by transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination was uncertain at the time the accounts were finalised. The issues 
involved are often complex and may take an extended period to resolve. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that 
were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.  62 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
1 Accounting policies (continued) 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated accounts incorporate those of easyJet plc and its subsidiaries for the years ended 30 September 2008 and 2009. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by easyJet. Control exists when easyJet has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies 
of an entity so as to benefit from its activities. 
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated 
accounts. 
Foreign currencies 
The primary economic environment in which a subsidiary operates determines its functional currency. The consolidated accounts of easyJet are presented in 
sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency and the Group’s presentation currency. Certain subsidiaries have operations that are primarily influenced 
by a currency other than sterling. Exchange differences arising on the translation of these foreign operations are taken to reserves until all or part of the 
interest is sold, when the relevant portion of the exchange gains or losses is recognised in the income statement. Profits and losses of foreign operations are 
translated into sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, since this approximates the rates on the dates of the transactions. 
Transactions arising in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and (except where the asset or 
liability is designated as a cash flow hedge) the gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the transactions were effected. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenues comprise the invoiced value of airline services, net of air passenger duty, VAT and discounts, plus ancillary revenue. 
Passenger revenue arises from the sale of flight seats and is recognised when the service is provided. Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not 
yet flown and is included in trade and other payables until it is realised in the income statement when the service is provided. 
Ancillary revenue is generally recognised when the flight to which it relates departs. Certain types of ancillary revenue are recognised at the time the benefit 
of the service provided passes to the customer. Ancillary revenue in the form of fixed annual fees is recognised evenly throughout the year. 
Amounts paid by “no-show” customers are recognised as passenger or ancillary revenue as appropriate when the booked service is provided as such 
customers are not generally entitled to change flights or seek refunds once a flight has departed. 
Business combinations 
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the 
date of exchange, of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identifiable 
assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at 
cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over easyJet’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities recognised. 
     
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. It has an indefinite expected useful life and is tested for impairment at least annually  
or where there is any indication of impairment. 
Landing rights are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as they will remain available  
for use for the foreseeable future provided minimum utilisation requirements are observed, and are tested for impairment at least annually or where there  
is any indication of impairment. 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation, which is calculated to write off their cost, less estimated residual value, on a  
straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. Expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually. 
 Expected useful life 
Computer software 3 years 
Contractual rights Over the length of the related contracts 
 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 63 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value,  
of assets on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. Expected useful lives are reviewed annually. 
 Expected useful life 
Aircraft 23 years 
Aircraft spares 14 years 
Aircraft improvements 3–7 years 
Aircraft – prepaid maintenance 3–10 years 
Leasehold improvements 5–10 years or the length of lease if shorter 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 years or length of lease of property where equipment is used if shorter 
Computer hardware 5 years 
Items held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their expected useful lives, as shown above. 
Residual values, where applicable, are reviewed annually against prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date for equivalently aged assets and 
depreciation rates adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis. The carrying value is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on acquisition to prepaid maintenance and is depreciated over a period ranging from three to ten years 
from the date of manufacture. Subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods, such as long-term scheduled maintenance and major 
overhaul of aircraft and engines, are capitalised and depreciated over the length of period benefiting from these enhancements. All other maintenance costs 
are charged to the income statement as incurred. 
The cost of new aircraft comprises the invoiced price of the aircraft from the supplier less the estimated value of other assets received by easyJet for  
nil consideration. These other assets principally comprise cash (recognised as an asset) and aircraft spares and service credits. 
Pre-delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft are recorded in property, plant and equipment at cost. 
Impairment of non-current assets 
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. 
Impairment losses recognised on assets other than goodwill are only reversed where changes in the estimates used result in an increase in recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed. 
Leases 
Non-contingent operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. A number of operating leases 
require easyJet to make contingent rental payments based on variable interest rates; these are expensed as incurred. 
easyJet enters into sale and leaseback transactions whereby it sells to a third party rights to acquire aircraft. On delivery of the aircraft, easyJet subsequently 
leases the aircraft back, by way of an operating lease. Surpluses arising on disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold for is above fair value, are 
recognised in deferred income and amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the asset. 
Finance leases, which transfer to easyJet substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are recognised at the inception  
of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Any directly attributable costs of entering 
into financing sale and leasebacks are included in the value of the asset recognised. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the 
reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are included in interest 
payable and other financing charges. 
Financial instruments 
Financial instruments are recognised when easyJet becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases 
to be a party to such provisions. 
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial instruments is calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying 
year end exchange rates.  64 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
1 Accounting policies (continued) 
Non-derivative financial assets 
Non-derivative financial assets are recorded at amortised cost and include loan notes, trade receivables, cash and money market deposits. Restricted cash 
comprises cash deposits which have restrictions governing their use and is classified as a current or non-current asset based on the estimated remaining 
length of the restriction. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held in bank accounts with no access restrictions and bank or money market deposits 
repayable on demand or maturing within three months of inception. 
Impairment losses are recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred. 
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the 
original effective interest rate. If, subsequently, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event that 
occurred after the impairment was recognised, the appropriate portion of the loss is reversed. Both impairment losses and reversals are recognised in the 
income statement as components of net finance (charges) / income. 
Investments in equity instruments are carried at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured due to significant variability in the range of reasonable fair 
value estimates. 
Interest income on cash and money market deposits is recognised using the effective interest method. 
Non-derivative financial liabilities  
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance 
sheet date. 
Interest expense on loans is recognised using the effective interest method. 
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. 
Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate operating and investing transaction exposures to movements in jet fuel 
prices and currency exchange rates. Hedge accounting is applied to these instruments. 
Changes in intrinsic fair value are recognised in shareholders’ funds to the extent that the cash flow hedges are determined to be effective. All other changes 
in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement. Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated gains 
and losses previously recognised in shareholders’ funds form part of the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability. Otherwise accumulated gains and 
losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged items affect the income statement. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised (e.g. through expiry or disposal), or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in shareholders’ funds until the transaction takes place. 
When a hedged future transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses previously recognised in shareholders’ funds are immediately 
recognised in the income statement. 
Tax 
Tax expense in the income statement consists of current and deferred tax. The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for 
income that is exempt and expenses that are not deductible using tax rates that are applicable to the taxable income. Tax is recognised in the income 
statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to shareholders’ funds, in which case it is recognised in shareholders’ funds. 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences relating to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, where it is probable that the recovery  
or settlement will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future, with the following exceptions: 
 where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities  
in a transaction that affects neither taxable income nor accounting profit.  
 deferred tax arising on investments in subsidiaries is not recognised where easyJet is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which recovery of assets and settlement  
of liabilities are expected to take place, based on tax rates or laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets represent amounts recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, losses and tax credits carried forward. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be deducted. 
Deferred tax liabilities represent the amount of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and it is the 
intention to settle these on a net basis.  65 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Aircraft maintenance provisions 
The accounting for the cost of providing major airframe and certain engine maintenance checks for owned and finance leased aircraft is described in the 
accounting policy for property, plant and equipment. 
easyJet has contractual obligations to maintain aircraft held under operating leases. Provisions are created over the term of the lease based on the estimated 
future costs of major airframe checks, engine shop visits and end of lease liabilities. These costs are discounted to present value where the amount of the 
discount is considered material. 
A number of leases also require easyJet to pay supplemental rent to the lessor. Payments may be either a fixed monthly sum up to a cap or are based  
on usage. The purpose of these payments is to provide the lessor with collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the 
requirements of the lease. Supplemental rent is either refunded when qualifying maintenance is performed, or is offset against end of lease liabilities. Where 
the amount of supplemental rent paid exceeds the estimated amount recoverable from the lessor, provision is made for the non-recoverable amount. 
Employee benefits 
easyJet contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of employees. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those  
of easyJet in independently administered funds. easyJet’s contributions are charged to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred. 
The expected cost of compensated holidays is recognised at the time that the related employees’ services are provided. 
Share-based payments 
easyJet has a number of equity settled share incentive schemes. The fair value of share options is measured at the date of grant using the Binomial Lattice 
option pricing model. The fair value of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and awards of free shares is the share price at the date of grant. The fair 
value of the estimated number of options and awards that are expected to vest is expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period 
that employees’ services are rendered, with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ funds. Where performance criteria attached to the share options and 
awards are not met, any cumulative expense previously recognised is reversed.  
Segmental disclosures 
easyJet has one business segment: the provision of a low cost airline service. easyJet has one geographical segment relating to the origin of its turnover which 
is Europe. 
Investments in subsidiaries 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment, in the entity accounts. 
Assets held for sale 
Where assets are available for sale in their current condition, and their disposal is highly probable, they are reclassified as held for sale and are measured  
at the lower of their carrying value and the fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation ceases at the point of their reclassification from non-current assets. 
Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards 
The following interpretations are required to be implemented for the year ended 30 September 2009: 
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes (IAS 18) 
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction (IAS 19) 
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 
The adoption of these interpretations has had no impact on these accounts.  66 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
1 Accounting policies (continued) 
New standards and interpretations not applied 
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations that have not been applied in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall 
in periods beginning after 1 October 2008. At 30 September 2009, items indicated below with an asterisk had not been adopted by the European Union. 
 
Applies to periods 
beginning on or after 
International Accounting Standards Board 
New and revised standards 
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Revised) 1 July 2009
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS (Revised)* 1 July 2009
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) 1 July 2009
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Revised) 1 January 2009
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (Revised) 1 January 2009
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Revised) 1 July 2009
Amendments to standards 
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation) 1 January 2009
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation) 1 January 2009
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (Classification of Rights Issues)* 1 February 2010
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (Eligible Hedged Items) 1 July 2009
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (Embedded Derivatives)* 30 June 2009
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS (Investment in Subsidiaries) 1 July 2009
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS (Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters)* 1 January 2010
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment (Vesting Conditions and Cancellations) 1 January 2009
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment (Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions)* 1 January 2010
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments)* 1 January 2009
Improvements to IFRS (2007) 1 January 2009
Improvements to IFRS (2009)* 1 July 2009 and 
1 January 2010
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives (Amended)* 30 June 2009
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate 1 January 2009
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners* 1 July 2009
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers* 1 July 2009
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on easyJet’s accounts. Certain of these 
standards and interpretations will, when adopted, require addition to or amendment of disclosures in the accounts.  
Under IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Directors have determined that easyJet continues to operate in one business segment, namely the provision of a low 
cost airline service. 
2 Net finance charges / (income) 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Interest receivable and other financing income 
Interest income (18.4) (48.9)
Net exchange gains on financing items (note 24) (4.1) (4.3)
 (22.5) (53.2)
Interest payable and other financing charges 
Interest payable on bank loans 26.2 27.9
Interest payable on finance lease obligations 3.9 4.2
Other interest payable (2.2) 1.9
 27.9 34.0
 5.4 (19.2)
Other interest payable in 2009 includes a credit of £3.3 million reversing a previous interest accrual.  67 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
3 Profit before tax 
The following have been included in arriving at profit before tax: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Employee costs (note 4) 342.9 291.2 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
 Owned assets 52.0 41.1 
 Under finance leases 3.4 3.3 
Amortisation of intangible assets 4.4 2.5 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 7.5 0.1 
Operating lease rentals 
 Aircraft 125.1 104.9 
 Other assets 2.7 2.7 
Auditors’ remuneration 
During the year easyJet obtained the following services from easyJet’s auditors and their associates (including foreign partners): 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Group audit fee 0.3 0.3 
Audit of GB Airways purchase accounting – 0.1 
Total audit fee 0.3 0.4 
Fees for other services 
 GB Airways acquisition and integration – 0.7 
 Other 0.1 0.1
 0.4 1.2 
4 Employees 
The average number of persons employed by easyJet was: 
 2009 2008 
Flight and ground operations 6,186 5,985 
Sales, marketing and administration 292 390 
 6,478 6,375 
Employee costs for easyJet were: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Wages and salaries 279.2 238.2 
Social security costs 33.8 27.2 
Pension costs 22.5 21.6 
Share-based payments 7.4 4.2 
 342.9 291.2 
  68 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
4 Employees (continued) 
Key management compensation was: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Short-term employee benefits 4.5 3.5
Pension costs 0.2 0.4
Payments for loss of office – 0.1
Share-based payments 0.7 0.5
 5.4 4.5
The Directors of easyJet plc and the other members of the Executive Management Team are easyJet’s key management as they have collective authority and 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business. 
Emoluments paid or payable to the Directors of easyJet plc were: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Remuneration 2.5 1.8
Gains made on the exercise of share options 0.1 –
Pension costs (two Directors) 0.1 0.1
 2.7 1.9
Details of directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration. 
5 Tax (credit) / charge 
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Current tax 
United Kingdom corporation tax 6.9 14.8
Foreign tax 12.1 6.0
Prior year adjustments (27.4) (23.1)
 (8.4) (2.3)
 
Deferred tax 
Temporary differences relating to property, plant and equipment (13.1) (2.4)
Other temporary differences 9.3 11.3 
Prior year adjustments (4.3) 20.4 
 (8.1) 29.3 
 (16.5) 27.0
Effective tax rate (30.2)% 24.5%
During the year, agreement was reached with Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs on certain tax issues. This has resulted in the release to the income 
statement of £30.7 million relating to current tax liabilities provided for in prior years. In addition, easyJet has reassessed certain other open tax matters.  
The net impact of these has been classified as prior year current and deferred tax adjustments. The prior year adjustments in 2008 include a reclassification  
of £16.9 million from current tax to deferred tax. 
Tax on items recognised directly in shareholders’ funds 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Deferred tax credit / (charge) on share-based payments 1.1 (7.3)
Deferred tax credit / (charge) on fair value movements of cash flow hedges 19.9 (14.4)
Current tax credit on share-based payments 0.4 2.0
 21.4 (19.7)
  69 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Reconciliation of the total tax (credit) / charge 
The tax for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as set out below: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 54.7 110.2 
Tax charge at 28% 15.3 30.9 
Attributable to rates other than standard UK rate (1.3) (1.5)
Income not chargeable for tax purposes (2.5) (0.2)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.5 0.3 
Share-based payments 1.2 0.2 
Adjustments in respect of prior years – current tax (27.4) (23.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – deferred tax (4.3) 20.4 
 (16.5) 27.0 
Deferred tax 
The net deferred tax liability included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£ million 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£ million 
Tax losses
£ million 
Fair  
value  
(gains)/losses  
£ million 
Share-based 
payments 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2008 – originally reported 49.730.6 –31.1 (3.8)107.6 
Adjustment re acquisition of GB Airways 
(note 23) – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
At 1 October 2008 – restated 49.730.3–31.1 (3.8)107.3 
Charged / (credited) to the income statement (14.2) 23.3 (16.0) – (1.2) (8.1)
Transfer from current tax liabilities – (1.9) – – – (1.9)
Credited to shareholders’ funds –––(19.9) (1.1)(21.0)
At 30 September 2009 35.5 51.7 (16.0) 11.2 (6.1) 76.3
 
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£ million 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£ million 
Tax losses
£ million 
Fair  
value  
(gains)/losses  
£ million 
Share-based 
payments 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2007 51.9 (1.8) – (3.7) (11.8) 34.6 
Charged / (credited) to the income statement 1.5 35.6 – (8.5) 0.7 29.3 
Acquisition of GB Airways (note 23) (3.7) (3.2) – 28.9 – 22.0
Charged to shareholders’ funds – – – 14.4 7.3 21.7 
At 30 September 2008 49.7 30.6 – 31.1 (3.8) 107.6 
Of the total net deferred tax liability of £76.3 million at 30 September 2009, it is estimated that assets of approximately £7.4 million will reverse during the 
year ending 30 September 2010. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. 
As a result the net UK deferred tax liability is £76.1 million (2008: £107.8 million). The net overseas deferred tax liability is £0.2 million (2008: asset of  
£0.5 million). There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets.  70 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
6 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year after 
adjusting for shares held in employee share trusts. 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares.  
Share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year are 
considered to be dilutive potential shares. Where share options are exercisable based on performance criteria and those performance criteria have been 
met during the year, these options are included in the calculation of dilutive potential shares. 
Earnings per share is based on: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Profit for the year 71.2 83.2
 
 million million 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year used to calculate basic earnings per share 421.9 419.4 
Weighted average number of dilutive share options 6.4 9.2 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 428.3 428.6 
Earnings per share 
 
2009
pence 
2008
pence 
Basic 16.9 19.8 
Diluted 16.6 19.4 
7 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
   Other intangible assets 
 
Goodwill 
£ million  
Landing 
rights 
£ million 
Contractual  
rights  
£ million 
Computer 
software 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Cost  
At 1 October 2008 – originally reported 359.872.62.5 12.687.7 
Adjustment re acquisition of GB Airways (note 23) 5.6 – – – – 
At 1 October 2008 – restated 365.4 72.6 2.5 12.6 87.7 
Additions –1.4– 4.15.5 
At 30 September 2009 365.4 74.0 2.5 16.7 93.2 
Amortisation  
At 1 October 2008 – – 0.7 6.4 7.1 
Charge for the year – – 1.0 3.4 4.4 
At 30 September 2009 – – 1.7 9.8 11.5 
Net book value  
At 30 September 2009 365.4 74.0 0.8 6.9 81.7 
At 1 October 2008 – restated 365.4 72.6 1.8 6.2 80.6 
  71 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
 
   Other intangible assets 
 
Goodwill 
£ million  
Landing 
rights 
£ million 
Contractual  
rights  
£ million 
Computer 
software 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Cost  
At 1 October 2007 309.6 – – 6.4 6.4 
Acquisition of GB Airways (note 23) 55.8 72.4 2.5 – 74.9
Additions –0.2– 6.26.4
At 30 September 2008 365.4 72.6 2.5 12.6 87.7
Amortisation  
At 1 October 2007 – – – 4.6 4.6
Charge for the year – – 0.7 1.8 2.5
At 30 September 2008 – – 0.7 6.4 7.1
Net book value  
At 30 September 2008 365.4 72.6 1.8 6.2 80.6
At 1 October 2007 309.6 – – 1.8 1.8
easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route network. The recoverable amount of goodwill and other assets with indefinite expected useful lives has 
been determined based on value in use of the route network.  
Pre-tax cash flow projections have been derived from the five-year strategic plan approved by the Board in June 2009, using the following key assumptions: 
Pre-tax discount rate (derived from weighted average cost of capital) 10.69%
Fuel price, per metric tonne, in US dollars 775
Exchange rates 
US dollar 1.55
Euro 1.20
Swiss franc 1.70
Both fuel price and exchange rates have been volatile during the past year, and the assumptions used represent management’s view of reasonable average 
rates. Operating margins are sensitive to significant changes in these rates. 
Cash flow projections beyond the forecast period have been extrapolated using real growth rate scenarios ranging from zero up to an estimated average  
of long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which easyJet operates. No impairment resulted from any of these scenarios. 
No reasonably possible combination of changes in the key assumptions above would result in the carrying value of the cash-generating unit exceeding  
its recoverable amount. 
8 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Aircraft 
£ million 
Leasehold 
improvements  
£ million 
Other 
£ million 
Total
£ million 
Cost  
At 1 October 2008 1,177.8 12.5 26.6 1,216.9 
Additions 511.5 – 3.5 515.0
Transfer from assets held for sale 67.9 – – 67.9
Disposals (10.1) – – (10.1)
At 30 September 2009 1,747.1 12.5 30.1 1,789.7 
Depreciation  
At 1 October 2008 93.1 6.4 14.8 114.3 
Charge for the year 52.4 0.7 2.3 55.4
Transfer from assets held for sale 13.0 – – 13.0
Disposals (5.2) – – (5.2)
At 30 September 2009 153.3 7.1 17.1 177.5 
Net book value  
At 30 September 2009 1,593.8 5.4 13.0 1,612.2 
At 1 October 2008 1,084.7 6.1 11.8 1,102.6 
  72 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
8 Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
 
Aircraft 
£ million 
Leasehold 
improvements  
£ million 
Other 
£ million 
Total
£ million 
Cost  
At 1 October 2007 987.8 12.2 22.4 1,022.4 
Acquisition of GB Airways (restated – note 23) 82.5 – – 82.5 
Additions 319.5 0.3 4.2 324.0 
Transfer to assets held for sale (restated – note 23) (211.3) – – (211.3)
Disposals (0.7) – – (0.7)
At 30 September 2008 1,177.8 12.5 26.6 1,216.9 
Depreciation  
At 1 October 2007 68.2 5.6 12.8 86.6 
Charge for the year 41.6 0.8 2.0 44.4 
Transfer to assets held for sale (16.4) – – (16.4)
Disposals (0.3) – – (0.3)
At 30 September 2008 93.1 6.4 14.8 114.3 
Net book value  
At 30 September 2008 1,084.7 6.1 11.8 1,102.6 
At 1 October 2007 919.6 6.6 9.6 935.8 
At 30 September 2009, easyJet is contractually committed to the acquisition of 74 (2008: 109) Airbus A320 family aircraft with a total list price of  
US$3.4 billion (2008: US$5.1 billion) before escalations and discounts, for delivery in the period to October 2013. 
The net book value of aircraft at 30 September 2009 includes £148.5 million (2008: £188.1 million) relating to advance and option payments for future 
delivery of aircraft. This amount is not depreciated. 
The net book value of aircraft held under finance leases at 30 September 2009 was £71.1 million (2008: £74.5 million). £3.4 million of the related 
accumulated depreciation was charged in the year ended 30 September 2009 (2008: £3.3 million). 
At 30 September 2009, aircraft with a net book value of £984.5 million (2008: £610.9 million) were mortgaged to lenders as loan security. 
9 Loan notes 
In 2001, easyJet in consortium with six other UK airlines formed The Airline Group Limited in order to acquire a minority interest in NATS, the company 
that owns the UK air traffic control system. easyJet’s investment is principally in the form of unsecured loan notes bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8%. 
Interest receivable is settled by the issue of additional loan notes. Redemption is governed by a priority agreement among the consortium members. 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
At 1 October 12.0 11.1 
Interest receivable converted to loan notes 0.9 0.9 
Redemption of loan notes (0.3) – 
At 30 September 12.6 12.0 
10 Other non-current assets 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Recoverable supplemental rent on leased aircraft (pledged as collateral) 57.3 54.2 
Deposits held by aircraft lessors 2.3 3.6
Other 3.1 3.3 
 62.7 61.1
Supplementary rent is pledged to lessors to provide collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease 
and is refunded when qualifying heavy maintenance is performed, or is offset against the costs incurred at the end of the lease.  73 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
11 Assets held for sale 
 £ million 
At 1 October 2008 – originally reported 195.8
Adjustment re acquisition of GB Airways (note 23) (0.9)
At 1 October 2008 – restated 194.9 
Disposals (66.8)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment (54.9)
At 30 September 2009 73.2
During 2008, seven Airbus A321 and five Airbus A319 aircraft, measured at carrying value which is considered to be less than current market value,  
were reclassified from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale. This carrying value was subsequently restated (see note 23).  
During the year, three Airbus A321 aircraft have been sold, realising a net profit of £11.0 million. easyJet continues to market the remaining four A321 
aircraft, and although the period over which the asset is classified as held for sale exceeds one year, the Directors consider that this classification remains 
appropriate. 
In view of current market conditions and the challenges for potential purchases in arranging finance, the five A319 aircraft have been transferred back  
to property, plant and equipment, with a corresponding catch-up of related depreciation charged to the income statement. 
12 Trade and other receivables 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Trade receivables 158.4 142.1
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (2.9) (2.6)
 155.5 139.5 
Other receivables 22.8 27.1 
Recoverable supplemental rent on leased aircraft (pledged as collateral) 4.5 20.6 
Prepayments and accrued income 59.0 49.7 
 241.8 236.9 
Supplementary rent is pledged to lessors to provide collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease 
and is refunded when qualifying heavy maintenance is performed, or is offset against the costs incurred at the end of the lease. 
Allowance for credit losses 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are shown below: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
At 1 October 2.6 1.2
Increase in provision (included in “Other costs”) 0.9 2.2
Amounts written off (0.6) (0.8)
At 30 September 2.9 2.6
Trade receivables are monitored and allowances are created when there is evidence that amounts due, according to the terms of the receivable, may not  
be collected. 
The following amounts of trade and other receivables are past due but not impaired: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Up to three months past due 21.1 13.4
Over three months past due 0.3 1.7
 21.4 15.1
With respect to trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications at the reporting date that the payment obligations will not 
be met. Amounts due from trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise credit card receivables due from financial institutions with credit 
ratings of at least A and, accordingly, the possibility of significant default is considered to be unlikely.  74 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
13 Cash and money market deposits 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Cash and cash equivalents (original maturity less than three months) 788.6 632.2 
Money market deposits (original maturity over three months) 286.3 230.3 
Current restricted cash 24.3 23.3 
Non-current restricted cash 48.0 42.9 
 1,147.2 928.7 
Interest rates on money market deposits and restricted cash are repriced within 185 days based on prevailing market rates of interest. Carrying value is not 
significantly different from fair value. 
Restricted cash comprises: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Customer payments for packaged holidays 23.4 23.3 
Pledged as collateral to third-parties: 
Aircraft operating lease deposits 44.4 37.2 
Aircraft mortgage collateral 2.7 4.0 
Other 1.8 1.7 
 72.3 66.2 
14 Trade and other payables 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Trade payables 99.2 77.5 
Other taxes and social security 7.8 10.2 
Other creditors 63.6 41.8 
Unearned revenue 324.3 286.2 
Accruals and deferred income 255.8 237.3 
 750.7 653.0 
15 Borrowings 
At 30 September 2009 
Current  
£ million 
Non-current 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Bank loans 113.8 896.9 1,010.7 
Finance lease obligations 3.8 106.1 109.9 
 117.6 1,003.0 1,120.6
 
At 30 September 2008 
Current  
£ million 
Non-current 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Bank loans 53.5 471.4 524.9 
Finance lease obligations 3.2 98.8 102.0 
 56.7 570.2 626.9 
Bank loans, which bear interest at variable rates linked to LIBOR, were drawn down to finance the acquisition of aircraft that have been mortgaged to the 
lender to provide security. 
Finance lease obligations relate to aircraft and bear interest partly at fixed rates and partly at variable rates linked to LIBOR. 
The maturity profile of borrowings is set out in note 25.  75 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
16 Non-current deferred income 
Deferred income principally comprises the non-current excess of sale proceeds over fair value of aircraft that have been sold and leased back under 
operating leases. This balance will be realised in the income statement over the next eight years. 
17 Maintenance provisions 
 £ million 
At 1 October 2008 – originally reported 209.4 
Adjustment re acquisition of GB Airways (note 23) 6.9 
At 1 October 2008 – restated 216.3 
Exchange adjustments 21.6 
Charged to income statement 41.2 
Utilised in the year (65.4)
At 30 September 2009 213.7 
Maintenance provisions are analysed as follows: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Current (restated – note 23) 45.1 55.9 
Non-current 168.6 160.4 
 213.7 216.3 
The provision for maintenance liabilities is expected to be utilised within eight years. 
18 Share capital 
  Number   Value 
 
2009
million 
2008 
million  
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Authorised      
At beginning and end of the year, ordinary shares of 25 pence each 500.0 500.0  125.0 125.0 
Allotted, called up and fully paid   
At 1 October 422.7 419.1  105.7 104.8 
Issued during the year under share incentive schemes 2.2 3.6  0.3 0.9
At 30 September 424.9 422.7  106.0 105.7 
The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was £3.09 (2008: £4.72). 
easyJet’s employee share trusts hold the following shares. The cost of these has been deducted from retained earnings: 
 2009 2008 
Number of shares (million) 2.0 1.9 
Cost (£ million) 9.7 10.3
Market value at 30 September (£ million) 7.5 5.6
  76 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
19 Share incentive schemes 
easyJet operates the following share incentive schemes, all of which are equity settled. The change in the number of awards outstanding and weighted 
average exercise prices during the year, and the number exercisable at each year end were as follows: 
Awards by grant date 
1 October 
2008 
million 
Granted 
million 
Forfeited 
million 
Lapsed 
million 
Exercised  
million 
Expired 
million 
30 September 
2009
million 
Pre-flotation scheme   
29 February 2000 3.6 – – – (0.3) – 3.3 
26 September 2000 0.5 –––– – 0.5 
Discretionary schemes   
18 January 2001 0.1 –––– – 0.1 
19 January 2004 0.5 –––– – 0.5 
8 December 2004 4.6 – (0.1) – (0.7) – 3.8 
2 June 2005 0.4 – – – (0.4) – – 
1 December 2005 0.7 – – (0.3) – – 0.4 
Sharesave   
29 June 2005 0.6 – – – (0.5) (0.1) – 
2 June 2006 0.5 – (0.1) – (0.2) – 0.2 
8 June 2007 0.5 – (0.2) – – – 0.3 
6 June 2008 3.5 – (0.4) – – – 3.1 
5 June 2009 – 1.4––– – 1.4
Share incentive plan 1.9 0.3––– – 2.2 
Long term incentive plan   
1 December 2005 0.5 – – (0.2) (0.3) – – 
1 December 2006 0.7 – (0.1) – – – 0.6 
3 December 2007 0.9 – (0.2) – – – 0.7 
29 February 2008 0.4 – (0.2) – – – 0.2 
16 January 2009 – 2.4 (0.3) – – – 2.1 
Chief Executive recruitment award 0.3 – – (0.1) (0.2) – – 
 20.2 4.1 (1.6) (0.6) (2.6) (0.1) 19.4 
 
Weighted average exercise prices 
1 October 
2008 
£ 
Granted 
£ 
Forfeited 
£ 
Lapsed 
£ 
Exercised  
£ 
Expired 
£ 
30 September 
2009
£ 
Pre-flotation scheme 1.66 – – – 1.62 – 1.66
Discretionary schemes 2.20 –2.393.302.03 –2.16
Sharesave 2.59 2.43 3.02 – 2.08 1.86 2.56
The exercise price of all awards save those disclosed in the above table is £nil. 
Number of awards exercisable 
2009
million 
2008
million 
Pre-flotation scheme 3.8 4.1 
Discretionary schemes 4.8 5.6 
Sharesave 0.2 0.6 
Share incentive plan 0.2 – 
 9.0 10.3 
  77 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Pre-flotation scheme 
Options vested in tranches of 25% ending on the third anniversary of easyJet’s admission to the Official List on 22 November 2000, and expire ten years 
after grant. 
Discretionary schemes 
Options awarded in 2001 in connection with easyJet’s admission to the Official List had a three-year vesting period and no performance conditions. 
All other awards have a three-year vesting period and performance conditions based on growth in earnings per share. During the year 54% of the options 
granted in December 2005 vested. 
Sharesave 
Sharesave is open to all employees on the UK payroll. Participants may elect to save up to £250 per month under a three-year savings contract. An option is 
granted by the Company to buy shares at a discount of 20% from market price at the time of the grant. At the end of the savings period, a tax-free bonus is 
applied to the savings and the option becomes exercisable for a period of six months. Employees who are not paid through the UK payroll may save under 
similar terms and conditions, albeit without tax benefits. 
Share incentive plan 
The share incentive plan is open to all employees on the UK payroll. Participants may invest up to £1,500 of their pre-tax salary each year to purchase 
partnership shares in easyJet. For each partnership share acquired easyJet purchases a matching share. Employees must remain with easyJet for three years 
from the date of purchase of each partnership share in order to qualify for the matching share, and for five years for the shares to be transferred to them tax 
free. The employee is entitled to dividends and to vote at shareholder meetings. Employees who are not paid through the UK payroll may save under similar 
terms and conditions, albeit without tax benefits.  
In October 2006 and December 2007, easyJet also awarded free shares to all employees under the share incentive plan. 
Long term incentive plan 
The plan is open, by invitation, to Executive Directors and senior management, and provides for annual awards of performance shares worth up to 200%  
of salary each year and matching shares linked to the investment of up to 50% of annual bonus in easyJet shares. The vesting of these awards is dependent 
on return on equity targets being achieved. 
Chief Executive recruitment award 
In December 2005, on Andrew Harrison acquiring and retaining £1,000,000 worth of easyJet shares using his own funds, he was granted an equal number  
of shares with a three-year vesting period. Half of the award is subject to performance conditions relating to the growth in EPS over the three years to 
September 2008. The other half is subject to the same return on equity targets as the 2005 long term incentive plan award. During the year 50% of the 
award related to growth in EPS and 67% of the award related to return on equity vested. 
The weighted average remaining contractual life for each class of share award is as follows: 
 Years 
Pre-flotation scheme 0.5
Discretionary schemes 5.1
Sharesave 2.5
Share incentive plan 3.0
Long term incentive plan 2.2
In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 2, fair values have not been calculated for grants of share options that occurred before 8 November 2002.  
Exercise prices for these options lie between £1.61 and £3.65.  78 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
19 Share incentive schemes (continued) 
The fair value of other grants under the discretionary and sharesave schemes is estimated by applying the Binomial Lattice option pricing model using the 
following key assumptions. The fair value of grants under all other schemes is the share price on the date of grant. 
Grant date 
Share 
price 
£ 
Exercise 
price 
£ 
Expected 
volatility 
% 
Option  
life 
(years) 
Risk-free 
interest rate 
% 
Fair 
value 
£ 
Discretionary Schemes  
19 January 2004 3.80 3.60 40% 6.5 4.62% 1.90 
8 December 2004 1.81 1.84 42% 6.5 4.45% 0.88 
2 June 2005 2.25 2.32 42% 6.5 4.20% 1.08 
1 December 2005 3.42 3.30 42% 6.5 4.15% 1.42 
Sharesave  
29 June 2005 2.45 1.86 42% 3.5 4.09% 1.12 
2 June 2006 3.66 2.61 42% 3.5 4.68% 1.79 
8 June 2007 5.19 4.79 32% 3.5 5.76% 1.82 
6 June 2008 2.86 2.40 41% 3.5 4.92% 1.16 
5 June 2009 3.04 2.48 53% 3.5 2.52% 1.40
Share incentive plan 2.62–7.27––– –2.62–7.27 
Long term incentive plan  
1 December 2005 3.42––– – 3.42 
1 December 2006 5.95––– – 5.95 
3 December 2007 5.63––– – 5.63 
29 February 2008 4.33––– – 4.33 
16 January 2009 2.88––– – 2.88
Chief Executive recruitment award 3.76––– – 3.76 
The weighted average fair value of shares issued under the share incentive plan during the year was £3.00 (2008: £5.46). 
Share price is the closing share price from the last working day prior to the date of grant. Exercise price for the discretionary schemes was determined using 
a five-day weighted average price. For the Sharesave scheme, a 20% discount has been given between share price and exercise price. 
Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period comparable to the expected life of each type of option. 
In all cases the assumed dividend yield is zero as easyJet does not pay dividends. 
Levels of early exercises and lapses are estimated using historical averages. 
20 Shareholders’ funds 
 
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share 
premium 
£ million 
Hedging 
reserve 
£ million 
Translation  
reserve  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2008 105.7 640.2 27.6 0.1 504.6 1,278.2 
Profit for the year –––– 71.2 71.2
Cash flow hedges  
 Fair value losses – – (214.3) – – (214.3)
 Losses transferred to income statement – – 228.8 – – 228.8 
 Gains transferred to property, plant and  equipment – – (85.9) – – (85.9)
 Related tax (note 5) – – 19.9 – – 19.9 
Share incentive schemes  
 Proceeds from shares issued 0.3 2.3 – – – 2.6 
 Value of employee services –––– 7.4 7.4 
 Related tax (note 5) –––– 1.5 1.5 
 Purchase of own shares –––– (1.6) (1.6)
Currency translation differences – – – (0.5) – (0.5)
At 30 September 2009 106.0 642.5 (23.9) (0.4) 583.1 1,307.3 
  79 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
 
 
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share 
premium 
£ million 
Hedging 
reserve 
£ million 
Translation  
reserve  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2007 104.8 633.9 (13.7) – 427.4 1,152.4 
Profit for the year –––– 83.2 83.2 
Cash flow hedges  
 Fair value gains – – 143.6 – – 143.6 
 Gains transferred to income statement – –(87.6) – –(87.6)
 Gains transferred to property, plant and  equipment – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
 Related tax (note 5) – – (14.4) – – (14.4)
Share incentive schemes  
 Proceeds from shares issued 0.9 6.3 – – (0.3) 6.9 
 Value of employee services –––– 4.2 4.2 
 Related tax (note 5) –––– (5.3) (5.3)
 Purchase of own shares –––– (4.6) (4.6)
Currency translation differences – – – 0.1 – 0.1 
At 30 September 2008 105.7 640.2 27.6 0.1 504.6 1,278.2 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments relating to highly probable 
transactions that are forecast to occur after year end. 
21 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Operating profit 60.1 91.0 
 
Adjustments for non-cash items: 
Depreciation 55.4 44.4 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (7.5) (0.1)
Profit on disposal of assets held for sale (11.0) –
Amortisation of intangible assets 4.4 2.5 
Share-based payments 7.4 4.2 
Derivative financial instruments – time value 0.3 2.6 
Unrealised foreign exchange differences (6.2) (3.4)
 
Changes in working capital and non-current deferred income: 
Decrease in trade and other receivables 3.2 10.1 
Increase in trade and other payables 104.9 112.9 
(Decrease) / increase in provisions (27.8) 49.8 
Increase in other non-current assets (1.6) (0.3)
Increase in derivative financial instruments (0.9) (5.3)
Decrease in non-current deferred income (16.2) (18.0)
 164.5 290.4 
  80 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
22 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds / (debt) 
 
1 October 
2008
£ million 
Exchange 
differences 
£ million 
Loan issue  
costs  
£ million 
Cash flows 
£ million 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
Cash and cash equivalents 632.2 11.7 – 144.7 788.6
Money market deposits 230.3 27.0 – 29.0 286.3 
 862.538.7– 173.71,074.9
  
Bank loans (524.9) (14.0) 1.9 (473.7) (1,010.7)
Finance lease obligations (102.0) (11.5) – 3.6 (109.9)
 (626.9)(25.5)1.9 (470.1)(1,120.6)
  
Net funds / (debt) (non-GAAP measure) 235.6 13.2 1.9 (296.4) (45.7)
23 Acquisition of GB Airways 
On 31 January 2008, easyJet acquired 100% of the share capital of and voting rights in GB Airways. At 30 September 2008 the fair values of assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed were determined on a provisional basis. These provisional fair values and subsequent adjustments made are as follows: 
 
Provisional  
fair value  
£ million 
Adjustments 
£ million 
Fair value 
£ million 
Landing rights 72.4 – 72.4 
Other intangible assets 2.5 – 2.5 
Property, plant and equipment 83.4 (0.9) 82.5 
Other non-current assets 2.7 – 2.7 
Assets held for sale 30.0 – 30.0 
Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 55.6 – 55.6 
Cash and cash equivalents 15.1 – 15.1 
Current liabilities, excluding borrowings and overdrafts (91.6) 1.9 (89.7)
Overdrafts (3.7) – (3.7)
Borrowings (59.1) – (59.1)
Deferred tax liabilities (22.0) 0.3 (21.7)
Maintenance provisions (6.1) (6.9) (13.0)
Net assets acquired 79.2 (5.6) 73.6 
Goodwill 50.2 5.6 55.8 
 129.4 – 129.4 
 
Purchase consideration  
Initial consideration paid  103.5 
Deferred consideration paid  21.6 
Direct acquisition costs  4.3 
  129.4 
Cash and cash equivalents acquired  (15.1)
Overdrafts acquired  3.7 
Net cash outflow  118.0 
Adjustments made since 30 September 2008, but within twelve months of the acquisition date, principally relate to maintenance provisions in respect  
of leased aircraft. Fair values are now final and no further adjustments may be made.  81 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
To report these adjustments in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”, the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2008 
has been restated as follows: 
 
Previously  
reported  
£ million 
Adjustments 
£ million 
Restated 
£ million 
Goodwill 359.8 5.6 365.4 
Assets held for sale (included on acquisition as property, plant and equipment) 195.8 (0.9)194.9 
Current tax liabilities (75.1) 1.9 (73.2)
Maintenance provisions (current portion) (49.0) (6.9) (55.9)
Deferred tax liabilities (108.1) 0.3 (107.8)
24 Financial instruments 
Carrying value and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying value at each reporting date are as follows: 
 Amortised cost  Held at fair value     
At 30 September 2009 
Loans and 
receivables
£ million 
Financial 
liabilities 
£ million  
Cash flow 
hedge 
£ million 
Held for  
trading  
£ million  
Non-financial 
instruments  
£ million 
Carrying 
value 
£ million 
Fair
value 
£ million 
Financial assets    
Loan notes 12.6 – – –  – 12.6 12.9
Restricted cash 72.3 – – –  – 72.3 72.3
Other non-current assets 59.6 – – –  3.1 62.7 62.7
Derivative financial assets – – 63.1 12.7  – 75.8 75.8
Trade and other receivables 193.1 – – –  48.7 241.8 241.8
Cash and money market deposits 1,074.9 – – –  – 1,074.9 1,074.9
Financial liabilities    
Trade and other payables –338.6––  412.1 750.7 750.7
Borrowings –1,120.6––  – 1,120.6 1,132.3
Derivative financial liabilities – – 93.7 –  – 93.7 93.7
 
 Amortised cost  Held at fair value     
At 30 September 2008 
Loans and 
receivables 
£ million 
Financial 
liabilities 
£ million  
Cash flow 
hedge 
£ million 
Held for  
trading  
£ million  
Non-financial 
instruments  
£ million 
Carrying 
value 
£ million 
Fair
value 
£ million 
Financial assets    
Loan notes 12.0 – – –  – 12.0 12.3
Restricted cash 66.2 – – –  – 66.2 66.2
Other non-current assets 60.0 – – –  1.1 61.1 61.1
Derivative financial assets – – 116.4 1.4  – 117.8 117.8
Trade and other receivables 187.5 – – –  49.4 236.9 236.9
Cash and money market deposits 862.5 – – –  – 862.5 862.5
Financial liabilities    
Trade and other payables – 304.1 – –  348.9 653.0 653.0
Borrowings –626.9––  – 626.9627.8
Derivative financial liabilities – – 76.3 –  – 76.3 76.3
Fair value calculation methodology 
Derivative financial instruments comprise forward contracts and (in the comparative period only) zero cost collars, and are valued based on market rates at 
each year end. Where carrying value does not equal fair value, the fair value has been estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by 
applying year end exchange rates. For all other financial instruments fair value approximates to carrying value. 
Non-financial instruments represent amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the line items disclosed above that do not meet the definition of a financial 
instrument and are disclosed to permit reconciliation of the carrying values of financial instruments to line items presented in the balance sheet.  82 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
24 Financial instruments (continued) 
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 
At 30 September 2009 
Quantity  
million 
Assets 
£ million 
Liabilities 
£ million 
Designated as cash flow hedges  
Forward US dollar contracts 874.2 39.9 (6.9)
Forward euro contracts 200.0 0.1 (15.4)
Forward jet fuel contracts 1.2 23.1 (71.4)
Designated as held for trading  
Forward US dollar contracts 825.0 12.7 –
  75.8 (93.7)
Less non-current portion:  
Forward contracts  7.8 (2.6)
Current portion  68.0 (91.1)
 
At 30 September 2008 
Quantity  
million 
Assets 
£ million 
Liabilities 
£ million 
Designated as cash flow hedges  
Forward US dollar contracts 1,876.2 100.7 –
Forward euro contracts 440.0 3.4 (1.1)
Forward Swiss franc contracts 100.0 – (0.1)
Zero cost US dollar collars 72.0 0.6 –
Forward jet fuel contracts 0.7 11.7 (75.1)
Designated as held for trading  
Forward US dollar contracts 318.0 1.4 –
  117.8 (76.3)
Less non-current portion:  
Forward contracts  21.3 (0.3)
Current portion  96.5 (76.0)
For currency contracts, quantity represents the nominal value of currency contracts held, disclosed in the contract currency. For jet fuel contracts, quantity 
represents contracted metric tonnes.  83 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 
All derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied are designated as cash flow hedges, with only the intrinsic value being designated for option instruments. 
Changes in fair value are recognised directly in shareholders’ funds, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the 
income statement. Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in shareholders’ 
funds are included in the carrying value of that asset or liability. Otherwise accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same 
period in which the hedged items affects the income statement. 
easyJet uses forward contracts and zero cost collars to hedge transaction currency risk, jet fuel price risk and surplus euro and Swiss franc monetary balances. 
Transaction currency risk includes capital expenditure, lease payments, debt repayments and fuel payments. Where these hedges are assessed as highly 
effective, gains and losses are deferred in shareholders’ funds and transferred to the income statement or cost of property, plant and equipment when  
the related cash flow occurs. The cumulative net gains / (losses) deferred in shareholders’ funds and their expected maturities are as follows: 
At 30 September 2009 
Within 1 year  
£ million 
1–2 years 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Hedges of transaction currency risk 13.4 1.8 15.2
Hedges of jet fuel price risk (53.1) 4.7 (48.4)
 (39.7) 6.5 (33.2)
Related deferred tax  9.3
Net losses  (23.9)
 
At 30 September 2008 
Within 1 year  
£ million 
1–2 years 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Hedges of transaction currency risk 86.0 15.7 101.7
Hedges of jet fuel price risk (67.3) 3.8 (63.5)
 18.7 19.5 38.2
Related deferred tax  (10.6)
Net gains  27.6
The amount deferred and recognised in shareholders’ funds during each financial year is disclosed in note 20. 
Amounts recorded in the income statement were as follows: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Gains / (losses) on cash flow hedges recycled from shareholders’ funds into income statement captions: 
Revenue (30.5) –
Fuel (209.3) 88.4
Maintenance 1.3 (0.2)
Other costs 1.4 –
Profit on disposal of assets held for sale (4.4) –
Aircraft lease costs 13.2 (2.2)
Undesignated portion of losses on cash flow hedges (time value) (0.3) (2.6)
 (228.6) 83.4
The amount transferred to property, plant and equipment from shareholders’ funds during the period is a gain of £85.9 million (2008: gain of £0.3 million). 
Changes in the fair value of options attributable to time value represent the undesignated portion of the gain or loss and are charged directly to the  
income statement.  84 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
24 Financial instruments (continued) 
Derivatives designated as held for trading 
easyJet has US dollar net monetary liabilities at the balance sheet date of £518.7 million (2008: £181.0 million). easyJet has no other significant currency net 
monetary exposure at each balance sheet date. In accordance with IAS 21, monetary assets and liabilities are revalued using exchange rates at the balance 
sheet date. This exposure is managed by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. 
Net US dollar monetary liabilities at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Cash and money market deposits 559.7 432.5
Borrowings (935.9) (453.5)
Maintenance provisions (180.8) (101.9)
Other 38.3 (58.1)
 (518.7) (181.0)
Amounts recorded in the income statement in respect of revaluation of the monetary assets and liabilities and the gains and losses on derivatives designated 
as held for trading are as follows: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Operating profit 
Unrealised revaluation gains on non-derivative financial instruments 30.9 15.5
Unrealised revaluation losses on other monetary assets and liabilities (26.0) (13.5)
Realised foreign exchange losses on financial instruments (16.4) (6.7)
Unrealised gains on derivatives 1.3 1.4
Realised gains on derivatives 16.6 10.8
 6.4 7.5
Net finance (charges) / income 
Unrealised revaluation gains on other financial instruments 12.8 0.7
Unrealised gains on derivatives 10.1 0.3
Realised (losses) / gains on derivatives (18.8) 3.3
 4.1 4.3
Net gains 10.5 11.8
25 Financial risk and capital management 
easyJet is exposed to financial risks including fluctuations in exchange rates, jet fuel prices and interest rates. Financial risk management aims to limit these 
market risks with selected derivative hedging instruments being used for this purpose. easyJet policy is not to trade in derivatives but to use the instruments 
to hedge anticipated exposure. As such, easyJet is not exposed to market risk by using derivatives as any gains and losses arising are offset by the outcome  
of the underlying exposure being hedged. In addition to market risks, easyJet is exposed to credit and liquidity risk. 
The Board is responsible for setting financial risk and capital management policies and objectives which are implemented by the treasury function on  
a day-to-day basis. The policy outlines the approach to risk management and also states the instruments and time periods which the treasury function is 
authorised to use in managing financial risks. The policy is under ongoing review to ensure best practice in light of developments in the financial markets. 
There have been no changes to the policy in the current year. 
Capital management 
The objective of capital management is to ensure that easyJet is able to continue as a going concern whilst delivering shareholder expectations of a strong 
capital base as well as returning benefits for other stakeholders and optimising the cost of capital. 
easyJet manages its capital structure in response to changes in both economic conditions and strategic objectives. The cash and net debt position, together 
with the maturity profile of existing debt, is monitored to ensure the continuity of funding. During the year, funding totalling $217 million for seven A320 
aircraft was put in place and utilised. On 16 November 2009 lease funding for a further six A320 aircraft totalling $222 million was agreed. 
The principal measure used by easyJet to manage capital risk is the gearing ratio of debt (defined as debt plus seven times aircraft operating lease payments 
less cash, including money market deposits and restricted cash) to shareholders’ funds. Gearing increased in the year from 28.8% to 37.6%, principally due to 
the acquisition of new aircraft and the strengthening of the US dollar against sterling.  85 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Liquidity risk management 
The objective of easyJet’s liquidity risk management is to ensure sufficient cash resources and the availability of funding as required. easyJet holds financial 
assets either for which there is a liquid market or which are expected to generate cash inflows that are available to meet liquidity needs. In addition, easyJet 
has committed undrawn bank facilities of $528 million (2008: $1,135 million), being a $250 million revolving credit facility and a remaining $278 million from 
facilities of $937 million put in place in December 2007. The cash, cash equivalent, restricted cash balances and money market deposits at 30 September 
2009 totalled £1,147.2 million (2008: £928.7 million). easyJet continues to hold significant cash and liquid funds to mitigate the impact of potential business 
disruption events with Board approved policy stating an absolute minimum level of liquidity that must be maintained at all times. Surplus funds are invested,  
in line with Board approved policy, in high quality short-term liquid instruments, usually money market funds or bank deposits. 
The maturity profile of easyJet’s financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities is set out below. The analysis represents undiscounted gross 
anticipated future cash flows. 
30 September 2009 
Within
1 year 
£ million 
1–2 years  
£ million 
2–5 years 
£ million 
Over 
5 years 
£ million 
Borrowings 138.5 150.5 418.9 525.1
Trade and other payables 338.6 – – – 
Derivative contracts – receipts (1,482.2) (217.7) – – 
Derivative contracts – payments 1,541.3 232.8 – – 
 
30 September 2008 
Within
1 year 
£ million 
1–2 years  
£ million 
2–5 years 
£ million 
Over 
5 years 
£ million 
Borrowings 85.5 96.9 291.2 296.0 
Trade and other payables 304.1– –– 
Derivative contracts – receipts (1,759.9) (336.9) – – 
Derivative contracts – payments 1,729.6 310.3 – – 
Credit risk management 
easyJet is exposed to credit risk arising from liquid funds, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables. Credit risk management aims  
to reduce the risk of counterparty default through limiting aggregate credit exposure to any one individual counterparty, based on its credit rating. Such 
counterparty exposures are regularly reviewed and adjusted as necessary. Accordingly, the possibility of material loss arising in the event of non-performance 
by counterparties is considered to be unlikely. 
Credit risk is limited to the carrying amount recognised at the balance sheet date. Disclosure relating to the credit quality of trade and other receivables is 
detailed in note 12. The credit risk for liquid funds and other short-term financial assets is considered negligible, since the counterparties are reputable banks 
with high quality external credit ratings. For deposits with financial institutions, internal limits are placed on the maximum exposure to individual 
counterparties and a minimum external credit rating of A is required. 
Foreign currency risk management 
The principal exposure to currency exchange rates arises from fluctuations in both the US dollar and euro rates which impact operating, financing and 
investing activities. The aim of foreign currency risk management is to reduce the impact of exchange rate volatility on the results of easyJet. Foreign exchange 
exposure arising from transactions in various currencies is reduced through a policy of matching, as far as possible, receipts and payments in each individual 
currency. Any remaining significant anticipated exposure is managed through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and zero cost collars. No new 
zero cost collars were put in place during the year ended 30 September 2009, and all existing positions matured prior to 30 September 2009. In addition, 
easyJet has substantial US dollar balance sheet liabilities, partly offset by holding US dollar cash; any residual net liability is managed through the use of forward 
foreign exchange contracts. 
Financing and interest rate risk management 
Interest rate cashflow risk arises on floating rate borrowings and cash investments. 
Interest rate risk management policy aims to provide certainty in a proportion of financing while retaining the opportunity to benefit from interest rate 
reductions. Interest rate policy is used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt. All borrowings are at floating interest rates repricing every 
three to six months. A significant proportion of the US dollar loans are matched with US dollar cash, with the cash being invested to coincide with the 
repricing of the debt. Operating leases are a mix of fixed and floating rates. Of the operating leases in place at 30 September 2009 approximately 60%  
of lease payments were based on fixed interest rates and 40% were based on floating interest rates (2008: 60% fixed, 40% floating). 
All debt is asset related, reflecting the capital intensive nature of the airline industry and the attractiveness of aircraft as security to lenders. These factors are 
also reflected in the medium-term profile of easyJet’s borrowings and operating leases. During the year four aircraft were cash acquired (2008: 13 aircraft). 
Committed financing is in place for up to 21 of the 27 aircraft due to be delivered during the year to 30 September 2010.  86 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE A C COUNTS CONTINUED 
25 Financial risk and capital management (continued) 
Fuel price risk management 
easyJet is exposed to fuel price risk. The objective of the fuel price risk management policy is to provide protection against sudden and significant increases  
in jet fuel prices thus mitigating volatility in the income statement in the short term. In order to manage the risk exposure, forward contracts are used in line 
with Board approved policy to hedge between 50% and 80% of estimated exposures up to 12 months in advance, and to hedge a smaller percentage of 
estimated usage up to 24 months in advance. In exceptional market conditions, the Board may accelerate or limit the implementation of the hedging policy. 
Market risk sensitivity analysis 
Financial instruments affected by market risks include borrowings, deposits, trade receivables, trade payables and derivative financial instruments. The 
following sensitivity analysis illustrates the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices.  
It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on profit or loss after tax for the year and shareholders’ funds on financial instruments held 
at the reporting date. It does not reflect changes in revenue or costs that may result from changing currency rates, interest rates or fuel prices. Each sensitivity 
is calculated based on all other variables remaining constant. The analysis below is considered representative of easyJet’s exposure over the 12 month period. 
The currency sensitivity analysis is based on easyJet’s foreign currency financial instruments held at each balance sheet date taking into account forward 
exchange contracts and zero cost collars that offset effects from changes in currency exchange rates. The increased sensitivity in the US dollar and euro rate 
represents sterling weakening against each variable currency with the –10% sensitivity showing a stronger sterling sensitivity. The interest rate analysis assumes 
a 1% change in interest rates over the reporting year applied to end of year financial instruments. The fuel price sensitivity analysis is based on easyJet’s fuel-
related derivative financial instruments held at the end of each reporting period. The sensitivity applied to both currency rates and the fuel price is based  
on a reasonably possible change in the rate applied to the value of financial instruments at the balance sheet date.  
    Currency rates    
At 30 September 2009 
US dollar +10%
£ million 
US dollar –10%
£ million 
Euro +10%
£ million 
Euro –10% 
£ million  
Interest rates 
1% increase 
£ million 
Fuel price 
10% increase 
£ million 
Income statement impact: gain/(loss) 17.9 (13.8) (1.1) 0.9  0.4 –
Impact on shareholders’ funds: increase/(decrease) 44.9 (37.6) (14.5) 12.0  – 31.4
 
    Currency rates    
At 30 September 2008 
US dollar +10%
£ million 
US dollar –10%
£ million 
Euro +10%
£ million 
Euro –10% 
£ million  
Interest rates 
1% increase 
£ million 
Fuel price 
10% increase 
£ million 
Income statement impact: gain/(loss) (3.6)2.92.3(1.9)  2.4 – 
Impact on shareholders’ funds: increase/(decrease) 86.8 (70.5) (27.1) 22.1  – 27.6 
The impact of a 1% increase in interest rates and a 10% increase in the fuel price is disclosed above. A corresponding decrease in each of the rates results in 
an equal and opposite impact on the income statement and shareholders’ funds in both reporting periods. 
26 Leasing commitments 
Commitments under operating leases 
  Aircraft   Other assets 
 
2009
£ million 
2008 
£ million  
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due:   
Not later than one year 101.0 118.2  2.3 2.5 
Later than one year and not later than five years 223.0 267.7  3.7 4.4 
Later than five years 37.9 72.8  3.5 4.1
 361.9 458.7  9.5 11.0
easyJet holds 68 aircraft (2008: 84 aircraft) under operating leases, with initial lease terms ranging from seven to ten years. easyJet is contractually obliged  
to carry out maintenance on these aircraft, and the cost of this is provided based on the number of flying hours and cycles operated. Further details are given 
in the critical accounting policies section of note 1.  87 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
Commitments under finance leases 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Minimum lease payments fall due as follows: 
Not later than one year 6.6 6.9 
Later than one year and not later than five years 28.7 28.5 
Later than five years 92.3 91.4
 127.6 126.8 
Future finance charges on finance leases (17.7) (24.8)
Carrying value of finance lease liabilities 109.9 102.0 
easyJet holds six aircraft under finance leases with ten year initial lease terms. Further details are given in note 15. 
27 Contingent liabilities 
easyJet is involved in various disputes or litigation in the normal course of business. Whilst the result of such disputes cannot be predicted with certainty, 
management considers that the ultimate resolution of these disputes will not have a material effect on easyJet’s financial position, results or cash flows. 
At 30 September 2009 easyJet had outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds totalling £29.4 million of which £28.7 million expires on or before 
30 September 2010. The fair value of these instruments was approximately equal to their carrying value.  88 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
COMP ANY BALANCE SHEET 
 Notes 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
30 September 
2008
£ million 
Non-current assets  
Investments in subsidiary undertakings b 65.7 700.2 
Current assets  
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings  1,049.0 362.4 
Current liabilities  
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings  (1.7) (227.7)
Current tax liabilities  (2.8) –
Other payables  (1.7) –
  (6.2) –
Net current assets  1,042.8 134.7 
Net assets  1,108.5 834.9 
 
Shareholders’ funds  
Share capital c 106.0 105.7 
Share premium c 642.5 640.2 
Retained earnings c 360.0 89.0 
  1,108.5 834.9 
The accounts on pages 88 to 91 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 16 November 2009 and signed on behalf of  
the Board. 
   
Sir David Michels  Andrew Harrison 
Director  Director 89 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
COMP ANY CASH FLOW ST A TEMENT 
 Notes 
Year ended 
30 September 
2009
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September 
2008
£ million 
Cash flows from operating activities  
Cash used by operations d (4.6) (12.5)
Interest received  2.0 5.3 
Net cash used by operating activities  (2.6) (7.2)
 
Cash flows from financing activities  
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  2.6 7.2 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents  – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  – – 
  90 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
NOTES TO THE COMP ANY BALANCE 
SHEET AND CASH FLOW ST A TEMENT 
a) Income statement and statement of recognised income and expense 
In accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.  
The Company’s profit for the year was £263.6 million (2008: £15.2 million). Included in this amount are dividends received of £261.7 million (2008: £nil). 
The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year. 
The Company has eight employees at 30 September 2009 (2008: seven). These are the Non Executive Directors of easyJet plc; their remuneration is paid 
by easyJet Airline Company Limited. The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited. Details of Directors’ 
remuneration are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ remuneration and in note 4 to the consolidated accounts. 
b) Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
At 1 October 700.2 694.6
Capital contributions to subsidiaries 7.4 5.6
Capital distributions made by subsidiaries (641.9) –
At 30 September 65.7 700.2 
During the year a group reorganisation was effected whereby a number of subsidiaries distributed their retained earnings and the majority of their share 
capital to easyJet plc. These distributions, being satisfied by the transfer of amounts due from another subsidiary undertaking, are non-cash transactions and 
have therefore been excluded from the Company cash flow statement. 
The principal subsidiary undertakings, all of which are included in the consolidated accounts, are shown below. A full list of Group companies will be included 
in the Company’s next annual return, in accordance with Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006. 
 Country of incorporation Principal activity Class and percentage of ordinary shares held 
easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100%
easyJet Switzerland S.A. Switzerland Airline operator 49%
easyJet Aircraft Company Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100%
easyJet Sterling Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100%
easyJet Leasing Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100%
easyJet Malta Limited Malta Aircraft trading and leasing 100%
The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland SA with an option that expires in 2014 to acquire the remaining 51%. easyJet Switzerland SA is 
consolidated as a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking. A minority interest has not been reflected 
in the accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has 
an option to acquire those shares for a predetermined consideration.   91 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
 
 91
c) Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds 
 
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share  
premium  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2008 105.7 640.2 89.0 834.9 
Profit for the year – – 263.6 263.6
Share incentive schemes  
 Proceeds from shares issued 0.3 2.3 – 2.6 
 Movement in reserves for employee share scheme – – 7.4 7.4
At 30 September 2009 106.0 642.5 360.0 1,108.5 
 
 
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share  
premium  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2007 104.8 633.9 68.2 806.9 
Profit for the year – – 15.2 15.2 
Share incentive schemes  
 Proceeds from shares issued 0.9 6.3 – 7.2 
 Movement in reserves for employee share scheme – – 5.6 5.6 
At 30 September 2008 105.7 640.2 89.0 834.9 
The disclosures required in respect of share capital are shown in note 18 to the consolidated accounts. 
d) Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 
 
2009
£ million 
2008
£ million 
Operating profit 264.4 9.9 
 
Adjustments for non-cash items: 
Unrealised foreign exchange differences (8.5) (10.1)
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings (261.7) –
 
Changes in working capital: 
Decrease in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 217.0 538.2 
Increase in amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (215.8) (550.5)
 (4.6) (12.5)
e) Guarantees and contingent liabilities 
The Company has given a formal undertaking to the Civil Aviation Authority to guarantee the payment and discharge of all liabilities of easyJet Airline 
Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. The guarantee is required for that company to maintain its operating licence under Regulation 3 of the 
Licensing of Air Carriers Regulations 1992. 
The Company has issued a guarantee in favour of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in relation to the processing of credit card 
transactions, and also in respect of hedging transactions carried out according to treasury policy. 
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Leasing Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in respect of its contractual obligations to 
Airbus SAS in respect of the supply of Airbus 320 family aircraft. 
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of borrowings that financed the acquisition of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings. The Company has also 
guaranteed the payment obligations for the lease of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has guaranteed certain letters of credit which have been issued by a bank on behalf of subsidiary undertakings. 
f) Related party transactions 
Transactions with subsidiary undertakings, which principally relate to the provision of funding within the Group, are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. 
Outstanding balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period, are unsecured, and bear market rates of interest. 
In addition, easyJet has a key relationship with easyGroup IP Licensing, which owns the easyJet brand.  92 easyJet plc  Annual report and accounts 2009 
GLOSSARY 
Aircraft owned/leased at end of period Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one month’s duration at the end of 
the period. 
Available Seat Kilometres (ASK) Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown. 
Average fare Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers. 
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the 
departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport. 
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres. 
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown. 
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown. 
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft lease costs, and profit or loss on 
disposal of aircraft. 
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown. The load factor is not weighted 
for the effect of varying sector lengths. 
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated. 
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, 
compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal 
of property plant and equipment. 
Passengers Number of earned seats flown. Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers (including no-
shows), seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel. 
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown. 
Return on equity Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders’ funds. 
Revenue The sum of revenue from ticket sales and ancillary revenue. 
Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK) Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown. 
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres. 
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown. 
Seats flown Seats available for passengers. 
Sector A one-way revenue flight. 
  Directors’ report
easyJet plc is incorporated as a public  
limited company and is registered in  
England with the registered number 
3959649. easyJet plc’s registered office 
is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, 
Bedfordshire LU2 9PF.
The Directors present the Annual  
report and accounts for the year  
ended 30 September 2009. References  
to ‘easyJet’, the ‘Group’, the ‘Company’,  
‘we’, or ‘our’ are to easyJet plc or to  
easyJet plc and its subsidiary companies 
where appropriate. 
Pages 01 to 55, inclusive, of this Annual 
report comprise the Directors’ report  
that has been drawn up and presented  
in accordance with English company  
law and the liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with that report shall be  
subject to the limitations and restrictions 
provided by such law.
We’d like to thank everyone 
who helped to produce  
this report:
Mark Adams, Alexandra Barnes,  
Angela Bennett, Chris Bennett,  
Andy Berks, Henrietta Boulton,  
Hal Calamvokis, Pritesh Dattani,  
Chris Gadsden, Andrew Harrison,  
Pamela Harrison, Andy Hodges,  
Bruce James, Patrick Johnson,  
Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie,  
Thomas Loizeau, Cath Lynn,  
Sir David Michels, Captain Jim Pegram,  
Giles Pemberton, Alexa Pickersgill, 
Captain Dave Prior, Tom Smethers, 
Andrew Tempest, Rui Vaz Fernandes, 
Bunmi Williams and all of our employees 
across our network.
This annual report is printed on Revive Pure white 
silk, this paper is produced from 100% recycled 
fibre. Both the paper mill and printer involved in 
the production support the growth of responsible 
forest management and are both accredited 
to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for 
continuous environmental improvement and both 
are FSC certified. If you have finished reading this 
report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass 
it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in 
your recycled paper waste. 
This report is available at:  
http://corporate.easyjet.com/investors/reports-
and-accounts.aspx
56  Accounts
56  Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of easyJet plc
57 Consolidated income statement
58 Consolidated balance sheet
59 Consolidated cash flow statement
60  Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
61 Notes to the accounts
88 Company balance sheet
89 Company cash flow statement
90  Notes to the Company balance sheet  
and cash flow statement
92  Other information
92 Glossary
nAvigA tiOn th Ank y Ou!
q
01  Overview
01 2009 Business highlights
02 easyJet at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06  Business review
06 Strategy and KPIs
08 Review of strategy
16 Chief Executive’s statement
20 Financial review
30 Corporate responsibility
36   g overnance
36 Directors’ profiles
38 Executive management team
40 Corporate governance
44 Shareholder information
45 Report on Directors’ remuneration
55 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Annual report and accounts 2009
Hangar 89
London Luton Airport
Luton
Bedfordshire
LU2 9PF
www.easyJet.com Annual report and accounts 2009
