  Developing a
Electrocomponents plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CONTENTS
Directors’ report: 
Business review
Highlights 2013  1 
Group overview   2
Our business model   3
Chairman’s report  10
Group Chief Executive’s review  12
Our Strategy 16
Business review 18
Principal risks and uncertainties 24
Corporate responsibility 28
Directors’ report: 
Corporate governance
Board of Directors 34
Corporate Governance  36
Audit Committee report  42
Remuneration report 45
Other disclosures 55
Statement of Directors’ 57 
responsibilities
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 58
Group income statement 59
Consolidated statement of 60 
comprehensive income
Group balance sheet  61
Group cash ﬂ ow statement 62
Consolidated statement of  63
changes in equity
Group signiﬁ cant  64
accounting policies
Notes to the Group accounts 68
Company balance sheet 94
Company signiﬁ cant  95
accounting policies
 Notes to the Company accounts 97
Shareholder information
Five year record 103
Registered ofﬁ ce, advisers  104
and ﬁ nancial calendar
Principal locations IBC
Electrocomponents, through its brands of 
RS Components and Allied Electronics, is the 
leading high service distributor of electronics 
and maintenance products in the world.
2013 has been a year of signiﬁ cant change. 
Making use of our global footprint, we have 
restructured our organisation to a global 
operating model and evolved to a common 
global strategy focused on seven strategic 
priorities. These changes will not only result 
in improved operational efﬁ ciency; they will 
enable us to capture market share at a faster 
rate and improve our ﬁ nancial performance 
over the medium term. 
However, some things at Electrocomponents 
will not change. We are a service business and 
have built our reputation over 75 years on our 
commitment to great service – this will never 
be compromised.
WHO 
WE ARE
STAY UP TO DATE ALSO A V AILABLE ONLINE
To view our online Annual Report 2013 visit: 
annualreport.electrocomponents.com/2013
For more information and the latest news visit: 
www.electrocomponents.com 1  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
highlights 2013
LEADING PRODUCT RANGE & SERVICE
44,000
parcels shipped every day from our extensive range of
550,000  
stocked products from
2,500
leading suppliers
(see page 7 to read our plans to improve our product offer)
GLOBAL SCALE & REACH
32
countries with operations and
17
distribution centres serving
1 million  
customers globally
(see page 14 to learn how we are leveraging our global 
footprint to evolve to a common global strategy)
LEADING ECOMMERCE CAPABILITIES
56%
of Group sales from eCommerce in 2013
4%
Group eCommerce sales growth in 2013
8.9 million
monthly average visits to our websites in 2013
(see page 5 to read how eCommerce is at the heart 
of our approach to marketing)
Sales
 £ 1,235 .6m
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
HEADLINE PROFIT BEFORE TAX
1
 £9 8. 7 m
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
eCom merce sales growth
 4%
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
HEADLINE free cash flow
1
 £ 56 .1m
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
11.75P
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
Net debt to EBITDA
2
1.2X
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
1 Headline measures of proﬁ tability and cash ﬂ ow are deﬁ ned as the relevant 
reported proﬁ t/cash ﬂ ow measure
2 EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(inc. government grants) 2 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group overview
WELL POSITIONED
UK
•  No. 1 market position* 
•  20:80 electronics:maintenance
•  2,100 employees
•  2 distribution centres
30%
of Group sales
Asia Paciﬁ c
• No. 1 market position* 
• 45:55 electronics:maintenance
•  1,000 employees
•  8 distribution centres
13%
of Group sales
North America
• No. 3 market position* 
•  70:30 electronics:maintenance
•  800 employees
•  1 distribution centre 
22%
of Group sales
Continental Europe
• No. 1 market position* 
• 35:65 electronics:maintenance
•  1,500 employees
• 6 distribution centres
35%
of Group sales
We have operations in 32 countries and sell through distributors in a further 
37 countries. With this global scale and reach we are well positioned to take 
advantage of the trends to globalisation in our industry. Our new operating 
model and global strategy, described over pages 3 to 17 , are designed to 
leverage this global footprint to capture market share from the numerous 
smaller competitors against whom we primarily compete.
Our leading range of over 
550,000 stocked products 
is sourced from 2,500 global 
suppliers and spans ﬁ ve major 
technology groups, shown on 
the right.
Electronics
Automation & Control
T est & Measurement
Electrical
Support
Five global product categories: Famous For Known For Must Have
* Versus other international high service distributors  DEVELOPING A
GL O BAL M IN DSET
There are strong forces driving globalisation in our 
industry. We are embracing these and have, during 
the last year, begun to make signiﬁ cant changes to 
the way we run the Group in order to become a truly 
global business. This means more than making our 
brand well known in markets across the world, or 
having distribution centres and employees on each 
continent and spanning multiple time zones. Being 
global is about having a global mindset.
We have begun the transformation to become a 
truly global business by reorganising our structure 
to a global operating model. This comprises three 
operating functions, Marketing, Offer and Sales, 
which are outlined over the following pages. They 
are supported by four enabling functions: Strategy, 
IT, HR and Finance.
This business model is designed to deliver one thing 
– our global strategy – faster and more efﬁ ciently. 
1 MARKETING
Creating an instinctive 
preference for our brands, 
Marketing will improve 
our ability to reach, market to 
and develop more customers 
than ever before.
2 OFFER
Offer will make more 
products available to more 
customers whilst ensuring 
fast, reliable service levels 
are available globally – all at 
the lowest total cost for 
our business.
3 SALES
Our local sales teams will 
focus on increasing the 
amount our existing 
customers spend with us 
and making them more 
proﬁ table for us. 
Our business model
IT
IT is dedicated to ensuring the 
business has the right tools, 
technologies and infrastructure 
in place to support a global 
operating model.
FINANCE
Finance will drive and support 
our performance agenda whilst 
maintaining a robust control 
environment and managing 
the Group’s risks.
HR
HR is focused on delivering an 
effective organisation structure 
and ensuring we have the skills 
and culture we need to deliver 
the Group strategy.
STRATEGY
Strategy will work across the business to develop, plan, support and drive the 
delivery of the Group strategy.
3  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Global Marketing will transform the way we do business, 
creating an instinctive preference for our brands. We will create 
demand through relevant customer touches, and channel the 
combined ﬁ repower of our leading product offer and highly 
skilled sales force on our global marketplace. As a result, our 
ability to reach, market to, and develop more customers will 
become greater than ever before, leading to a higher rate of 
customer acquisition.
c.£700m
eCommerce business today
IMPROVED 
CUSTOMER 
ACQUISITION
Our business model continued
The Vision eCommerce will be at the heart of our approach to marketing. 
We will invest in improving our eCommerce functionality, digital 
marketing and technical marketing to increase website trafﬁ c 
and improve the conversion of such site visits into sales. Once 
new customers have been acquired, we will nurture and 
develop them to increase their frequency of spend with us, 
using improved insight capabilities to deploy our Global Sales 
team at the right time.
MARKETING
1
70%
of sales from eCommerce medium-term target
AN ECOMMERCE-LED 
APPROACH
How will we get there?
5  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Vision
Global Offer’s vision is to make more products available to more 
customers by helping our customers ﬁ nd and buy the products 
they need at the right price as well as ensuring the products are 
available and can be delivered when they need them – all at the 
lowest total cost for our business. We will do this whilst also 
keeping our employees safe, empowered and highly engaged.
 MORE PRODUCTS 
AVAILABLE TO 
 MORE CUSTOMERS
Our business model continued
 >550 , 000
stocked products from leading global brands available  OFFER
2
How will we get there?
We will build a global range, bringing together RS and Allied 
product ranges to make 75% to 85% of our range available 
everywhere. Our global inventory will be visible to all customers 
with consistent content that is optimised for digital, and it will 
be managed globally to improve our return on stock. We will 
build a global freight network to ensure fast, reliable service 
levels are available worldwide.
SINGLE 
GLOBAL 
OFFER
 75-85%
of global range to be made available everywhere 
7  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Recognising the importance of a local sales and customer 
service presence, Global Sales’ vision is to increase the amount 
our existing customers spend with us and make them more 
proﬁ table for us. Working together we will identify best 
practice, scale it up and roll it out across our global sales force, 
improving effectiveness and efﬁ ciency. We aim to build an 
empowered and innovative world-class sales organisation.
GROW EXISTING 
CUSTOMERS
The Vision
Our business model continued
 >1 million
customers worldwide SALES
3
We will improve our insight capabilities and work with 
Global Marketing to identify which customers, according 
to their growth potential, will beneﬁ t from contact with our 
highly skilled sales people. Equipped with a global offer, our 
sales and customer service teams will work closely with our 
target customers to identify opportunities and provide relevant 
solutions that add value to their component purchasing. 
This will provide a key differentiator to the competition.
 RELEV ANT 
SOLUTIONS
How will we get there?
 c.2,500
sales employees providing a great customer experience
9  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s report
EMBRA CING 
am delighted to have resumed my responsibilities as 
Chairman of Electrocomponents during the year, and on 
behalf of the Board I would like to thank Rupert Soames 
for taking on the role of Acting Chairman in my absence and all 
my colleagues for their understanding and support. 
It is an exciting time for me to resume my chairmanship of the Group. 
During the past year the business has made signiﬁ cant changes to 
its strategy to achieve outperformance and has carried out a major 
reorganisation to deliver this strategy. These steps have been taken 
from a position of strength and have been implemented smoothly 
and effectively. 
Organisation, strategy and performance framework 
There are clear beneﬁ ts to being a large, global competitor in the 
high service distribution marketplace and with our scale, customer 
proposition and global reach we are well placed to take advantage 
of the structural trends to globalisation. 
Following an extensive review of how to maximise our ability to 
capture these beneﬁ ts, and building on the successful regionalisation 
of our European businesses, we have, during the last year, developed 
and implemented a new global operating model. This resulted in the 
transition of our organisation structure from a country-based structure 
to a new functionally-based structure. Whilst it has involved the 
removal of some duplication within the business and driven greater 
efﬁ ciencies, its primary beneﬁ t is to enable us to evolve to a common 
global strategy which is designed to grow our market share faster 
and improve our ﬁ nancial performance over the medium term.
This new strategy is based around seven strategic priorities (covered 
in more detail in the Group Chief Executive’s review). This strategy 
will be supported by additional investment over the next ﬁ ve years, 
which will be funded from operational cash ﬂ ows and focused on our 
growth initiatives. The strategy, supported by a new organisation and 
additional investment, is expected to deliver an improvement in the 
Group’s ﬁ nancial performance. Our new medium-term performance 
framework is set out on page 14 in the Group Chief Executive’s 
review. Its principal components include a higher rate of share gains 
in our international markets, growth rather than stability from our 
UK business, and continued operating leverage. 
“ the business has made 
significant changes to its 
strategy and organisation 
to achieve outperformance”
I 11  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
11 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate responsibility is an 
integral part of our business. As our business has evolved so has our 
commitment to sound corporate responsibility policies and practices 
across the globe. Following the reorganisation of our business in 
2012, we are working together to share and embed best practice 
across all of our markets. In particular, our people are our greatest 
asset and keeping them safe and healthy is of paramount importance. 
Target Zero, our health and safety campaign launched in 2011 in the 
UK, has now been rolled out internationally with encouraging results; 
the total amount of lost time due to accidents across the Group has 
decreased by almost 50% over the prior year.
Employees
On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my sincere thanks to all our 
colleagues across the Group for their support through what has been 
a very challenging year. I am particularly grateful for their continued 
focus on business performance at a time of great personal insecurity 
for many. The Group’s ﬁ nancial performance could not be achieved 
without committed, dedicated employees, and I would like to thank 
all of them for their part in delivering these results and embracing 
so enthusiastically the changes that we are making to the business.
Peter Johnson, Chairman
23 May 2013
Trading performance
Against the backdrop of very challenging trading conditions across 
almost all of the Group’s markets underlying sales grew by 1% over 
the prior year, with Group reported sales of £1,236 million. 
Maintenance sales grew by 3%, offset by a 2% decline in electronics 
sales, though this latter product category outperformed a tough 
electronics market. The transformation of Electrocomponents into a 
primarily online business continued with eCommerce sales growing 
by 4%. eCommerce represented 56% of sales during the year, 
continuing on the path towards our medium-term target of 70%.
Highlighting the operational leverage inherent in our business, headline 
proﬁ t before tax declined by 19% to £99 million. This reﬂ ected a decline 
in gross margin of 0.8% points and operating cost growth of 2% at 
constant currency, together with a £10 million impact due to fewer 
trading days and currency movements.
The Group’s cash-generative qualities remain evident, as headline free 
cash ﬂ ow increased by 6% to £56.1 million despite the 19% decline in 
headline proﬁ t before tax. This resulted in a return on capital employed 
of 19.3%, signiﬁ cantly ahead of the Group’s cost of capital. The Group 
retains a strong ﬁ nancial position, with funding in place through to 
2015 and signiﬁ cant headroom to the Group’s banking covenants.
Dividend
The Board is proposing an unchanged ﬁ nal dividend for the year of 
6.75 pence per share. This will be paid on 22 July 2013 to shareholders 
on the register on 21 June 2013. As a result, the total dividend for 
the ﬁ nancial year will be 11 .75 pence per share, resulting in headline 
earnings cover of 1 .3 times.
The Board believes that the business has signiﬁ cant opportunities to 
invest for growth at attractive returns, as illustrated by the investment 
planned to support the Group’s new medium-term business plan. The 
Group’s free cash ﬂ ow should enable the Board to maintain and grow 
the dividend over the medium term. As previously indicated, over time 
and as earnings increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive 
dividend policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover 
towards two times. 
Board changes
Electrocomponents has a strong and effective Board with a clear view 
of its own role and purpose. I am delighted that during the year we 
have been able to further strengthen the Board. On 1 January 2013 
Karen Guerra and John Pattullo joined the Board as Non-Executive 
Directors, bringing with them a broad range of international business 
experience and, respectively, strong backgrounds in marketing and 
supply chain management. 
I am conﬁ dent that both have the necessary skills to help support 
the Group’s strategy and ongoing development. 12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
“ This has been a year 
of significant change 
for the Group. We 
implemented a new 
global operating 
model and evol ved 
to a common global 
strategy. These 
developments 
will enable us 
to strengthen 
our competitive 
advantages and 
increase the rate at 
which we gain share 
from our numerous 
smaller competitors”
Group Chief Executive s review
GO ING 
  13  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
MARKET OVERVIEW AND MARKET ENVIRONMENT
Market overview
The high service distribution market caters to the small quantity 
needs of electronics and maintenance engineers and machine and 
panel builders. Our average customer order value is around £140, 
and this order is typically for three to four individual product lines.
A customer will usually order different product lines each time rather 
than make repeat orders of the same products. Demand is similar 
across the world – customers want a broad range of high quality 
stocked products in small quantities with reliable delivery. The internet 
has become the dominant channel for customers to do business 
with us, though providing a multi-channel service remains important 
as many customers still prefer to use a catalogue and phone or fax 
to place orders, often in conjunction with the internet.
We estimate that the available market is worth around £30 billion 
globally, split evenly between electronics and maintenance products. 
The electronics market has, on average, grown at around twice the 
rate of GDP . The electronics cycle is more volatile than the economic 
cycle because spending on new technology innovation can be quickly 
halted and then re-started, as occurred during the last year. The 
maintenance market grows at around GDP but is less volatile than 
the electronics market. 
The marketplace serving this demand is highly fragmented, being 
populated by a large number of small local and regional distributors. 
Electrocomponents, through its brands RS Components (RS) and 
Allied Electronics (Allied), is the world’s leading high service 
distributor. RS is the leading distributor in the UK, Continental Europe 
and Asia Paciﬁ c, while Allied is in the top three in North America. 
There are ﬁ ve large international high service distributors, including 
Electrocomponents, and together this group has around 15% of 
the available global market; as the leading player, our market share 
is around 4%. This group has been gaining market share from 
smaller distributors. Over the last seven years we have grown our 
International sales by an average of 6% per annum. We estimate that 
the markets in which we operate have grown on average at 3% per 
annum. The remaining 3% per annum of sales growth represents 
market share gains, principally from smaller competitors.
We believe that our customer proposition and global scale and reach 
give us an advantage over the numerous small local and regional 
distributors against whom we primarily compete, allowing us to take 
market share from them. Moreover, many of our smaller competitors 
ﬁ nd it difﬁ cult to obtain credit in tough economic times and therefore 
cannot develop their product range or eCommerce capabilities, 
creating an opportunity for large global competitors such as 
ourselves to gain share.
Market environment
The market environment during the past year was challenging, 
reﬂ ecting the uncertain economic conditions in many of our larger 
markets across Europe, North America and Asia Paciﬁ c. 
The manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs) in all of 
our major markets except the US were at readings at or below 
50 for much of the year. This is indicative of a ﬂ at or contracting 
manufacturing sector in these countries and led to a challenging 
environment in which to sell maintenance products. Despite this 
our maintenance sales grew by 3% in the year, which we believe 
outperformed the maintenance market as a whole.
Trade associations from the electronics distribution industry, such as 
the Association of Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components 
(AFDEC) and the National Electronic Distributors Association (NEDA), 
reported declining activity levels from their members during the year. 
The volume electronics distributors have also reported signiﬁ cant 
declines in sales during 2012. Within that context, we believe our 
electronics sales decline of 2% indicates that we have outperformed 
the electronics distribution market as a whole.
Whilst we believe that we have taken market share during the year, 
the difﬁ cult trading environment at this point in the economic cycle 
resulted in a greater use of discounting in order to retain and attract 
customers, particularly in the ﬁ rst half of the year when our gross 
margin reduced by over 1% point. As expected, our gross margin 
improved during the second half of the year, with the rate of decline 
reducing to 0.3% points, reﬂ ecting the actions we took to improve 
our discount effectiveness and the initial rollout of a targeted price 
differentiation strategy. 
 
MARKET SHARE
Electrocomponents 
International competitor 1
International competitor 2
International competitor 3
International competitor 4
Small local/regional competitors
INTERNATIONAL SALES CAGR Development, 2006 – 2013
Market
growth
Share
gains
Sales
CAGR
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
3%
3%
6%
Nominal GDP growth weighted to Electrocomponents geographic split
Weighted for exposure to faster electronics growth
c.£30bn market size 14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
STRATEGY UPDATE 
Building on our proven 2006 strategy
In 2006 we established a strategy focused on ﬁ ve key initiatives. 
Since then we have invested behind this strategy and transformed the 
Group, increasing sales by over £400 million. We have now identiﬁ ed 
clear opportunities to build on these initiatives to deliver further 
progress and improve our ﬁ nancial performance.
International growth: Our International business has delivered 6% per 
annum sales growth since 2006 and taken market share. We have 
identiﬁ ed opportunities to gain market share faster by adopting a 
single global approach to serving our core customer groups.
Develop two strong offers: We have built a strong electronics offer 
through investment in over 100,000 new products since 2006. We 
also delivered good growth from our maintenance offer, particularly 
automation & control. We have an opportunity to grow faster and 
more efﬁ ciently by creating a single global offer. 
Exploit eCommerce: eCommerce is at the heart of our multi-channel 
marketing approach. It has grown four times as fast as the Group over 
the past seven years, growing its share of our business from 25% 
to 56%. We have identiﬁ ed opportunities to grow faster by creating a 
global eCommerce ‘machine’ to acquire and develop new customers 
and deploying our highly skilled sales force to better manage the 
customer life cycle.
Deliver operating leverage: Operating leverage has been delivered 
through economies of scale and improved cost efﬁ ciency, offset by 
lower gross margin due to price repositioning and mix. We have 
identiﬁ ed an opportunity to continue to deliver operating leverage and 
partially mitigate gross margin pressure through a global pricing strategy.
Maintain UK proﬁ tability: Our UK business has delivered 1% sales 
and contribution growth since 2006. We have identiﬁ ed an opportunity 
to grow sales in line with the market whilst maintaining high 
proﬁ tability by adopting a single global approach to serving our 
core customer groups.
Evolving to a common global strategy
Since 2006 it has become increasingly evident that there are clear 
beneﬁ ts to being a large, global competitor in this marketplace. 
Customer needs are similar everywhere, leading suppliers in our 
industry are global and the internet enables global marketing. We 
have the global footprint, relationships with suppliers and eCommerce 
capabilities to take advantage of these trends. Moreover, our 
experience since 2010 of managing our European business as a single 
region has demonstrated the effectiveness of a common strategy, as 
Europe has delivered an average of 10% per annum underlying sales 
growth since then, signiﬁ cantly ahead of the underlying market growth.
Following an extensive review of how to maximise our ability to 
capture the beneﬁ ts of being a large, global company we have, during 
the last year, transitioned from a country-based structure to a global 
operating model that is functionally-based but which retains the value 
of a local sales presence. This comprises three operational functions 
– Sales, Marketing and Offer (comprising the Group’s product and 
stock management, pricing and supply chain activities), and four 
support functions – Strategy, IT , Finance and HR. Each function is 
being run by an existing member of our highly-experienced 
management team. This move to a global operating model involved 
the removal of some duplication within the business and has 
delivered annualised efﬁ ciencies of £7 million.
The new global operating model has enabled us to evolve to a 
common global strategy. We believe that this will allow us to capture 
the signiﬁ cant opportunities identiﬁ ed above to build on our 2006 
strategy. This global strategy comprises seven strategic priorities, with 
four key growth initiatives supported by three enablers. These seven 
strategic priorities, described overleaf, are supported by additional 
investment that will be funded from our existing cash ﬂ ows. We will 
be investing an additional £15 million per annum in capital expenditure 
over the next ﬁ ve years, over and above our historical run-rate of 
£25 million per annum, with this incremental investment focused 
on our growth initiatives. We believe that the global organisation and 
strategy will enable us to extend our advantages over our numerous 
smaller competitors and accelerate the rate at which we gain market 
share in fragmented markets over the medium term.
MEDIUM-TERM PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK 
Following the evolution of our strategy we have reviewed our 
medium-term performance framework. The new global strategy 
is expected to deliver improved medium-term ﬁ nancial performance 
as highlighted in the table above.
Higher sales growth
We are targeting an average Group sales growth rate of 5% to 8% 
per annum through the cycle. This represents a signiﬁ cant 
improvement over our historical average Group sales growth 
performance of 4% per annum.
Whilst we expect the global economic outlook to remain challenging, 
our global strategy is expected to enable us to accelerate the rate at 
which we gain share in our international markets. During the past 
seven years share gains have contributed around half of the 6% per 
annum International sales growth. Going forward we expect share 
gains to be a greater contributor to sales growth, enabling us to reach 
the upper end of our 7% to 10% per annum International sales 
growth target. With an extensive footprint of 17 distribution centres 
around the world we have the capacity to achieve this sales growth 
from our existing distribution network.
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Medium-term performance framework: key performance indicators
Historic Performance
1
2013 Actual Medium-term Target
Group sales growth
2
4% pa 0.5% 5% – 8% pa
Group return on sales
3
7% – 10%
4
8.4% 9% – 11%
Return on capital employed
3,5
15% – 25% 19.3% 20% – 30%
Free cash ﬂ ow as a % of sales
3
3% – 8% 4.5% 4% – 6%
1 Performance between 2006 and 2013
2 Underlying sales growth, adjusting for trading days and currency movements
3 These are headline measures of proﬁ tability and cash ﬂ ow which are deﬁ ned as the relevant reported proﬁ t/cash ﬂ ow before reorganisation costs/cash ﬂ ow
4 Reported Group return on sales adjusted to reﬂ ect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix
5 Headline operating proﬁ t expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt 15  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
We are raising our ambitions for the UK business, targeting an 
average of 1% to 2% per annum sales and contribution growth rather 
than seeking to maintain contribution. This improved outlook is based 
on our experience of the last seven years, when the UK has delivered 
sales growth of 1% per annum, combined with our belief that the UK 
manufacturing sector now provides a more stable trading 
environment than it did a decade ago. 
Improved proﬁ tability and returns on capital employed
Sales growth will remain the key driver of operating leverage, 
augmented by process cost leverage and efﬁ ciencies from our move 
to a global operating model. Over the medium term we expect that 
gross margins will reduce by around 2% points as we grow faster in 
lower-margin technologies and countries. Our global pricing strategy 
will enable us to capture more value and partially mitigate the 
investment in margin we will make to improve our value for money 
proposition to customers.
These cost and gross margin actions are expected to result in a 
medium-term Group operating margin range of between 9% and 
11%. This is an improvement on our historical performance of 7% 
to 10%, adjusted to reﬂ ect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix.
Over the past seven years the Group’s return on capital employed 
(including goodwill) has ranged between 15% and 25%, signiﬁ cantly 
above the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. We are targeting 
to raise this range to between 20% and 30% as the beneﬁ ts of faster 
sales growth and continued strong cash ﬂ ow generation are realised.
Strong free cash ﬂ ow enabling dividend growth
Our global strategy is being supported by additional investment. 
Combined with a slight improvement in stock turns and improved 
proﬁ tability we are targeting medium-term Group headline free cash 
ﬂ ow to sales to range between 4% and 6%.
The Group’s free cash ﬂ ow should enable the Board to maintain and 
grow the dividend over the medium term. As previously indicated, 
over time and as earnings increase, the Board intends to pursue a 
progressive dividend policy whilst increasing headline earnings 
dividend cover towards two times.
Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive
23 May 2013 To watch Ian’s video interview visit: 
www.electrocomponents.com
“ there are clear benefits 
to being a large, global 
competitor in this 
marketplace. we are 
well placed to capture 
these benefits and 
extend our advantages 
over our numerous 
smaller competitors”
WATCH IAN’S VIDEO INTERVIEW ONLINE
GROUP RETURN ON SALES
1
8. 4%
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
1
19 . 3%
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
1 Headline operating proﬁ t expressed as a percentage of sales 1 Headline operating proﬁ t expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt 16 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
OUR sTRA TEGY
DESIGNED FOR GRO WTH 
ECOMMERCE WITH 
A HUMAN TOUCH
We will signiﬁ cantly develop 
eCommerce to acquire 
customers at a faster rate than 
before, and our medium-term 
target remains for 70% of our 
business to be transacted online 
(2013: 56%). For high-value 
customers we will deploy our 
highly skilled sales people to 
nurture these opportunities. 
By allocating digital and human 
resources more effectively we 
will manage our customer base 
more proﬁ tably. 
Priorities for 2014
We will invest in a brand 
awareness and customer nursery 
programme focused on our 
growth markets. We will increase 
our investment in digital 
marketing to drive more trafﬁ c 
to our websites, and increase 
the conversion of visitors 
to customers through 
behavioural marketing.
Link to KPIs*
•  Group sales growth
Link to Risks**
• Increasing competition 
• Customer acquisition, retention 
and frequency of spend
• Delivery of Group strategy
• Product data integrity
ONE GLOBAL OFFER
We will use our industry-leading 
footprint to get more products to 
more customers by making 75% 
to 85% of our range available to 
all our customers across the 
world without compromising our 
reliable, high level of service. We 
will be famous for electronics 
and automation & control and 
will focus on driving a higher 
return on stock. 
Priorities for 2014
We will begin to level up the 
global range across RS and Allied 
and develop the global supply 
routes necessary for a reliable, 
high service level worldwide.
Link to KPIs*
•  Group sales growth
• Group return on sales
• Headline return on capital 
employed
• Headline free cash ﬂ ow as 
a % of sales
Link to Risks**
• Increasing competition
• Delivery of Group strategy
• Effective range management 
• Product data integrity
GROW TARGET 
CUSTOMERS
We will increase customer 
numbers and our sales to 
existing customers by focusing 
on our four core customer 
groups: Electronic Design 
Engineers, Machine and Panel 
Builders, Maintainers and 
Buyers. Our offer will be based 
on the needs of these groups, 
underpinned by our global 
approach. 
Priorities for 2014
We will design and implement 
business plans for each of our 
customer groups, aligning their 
needs with the appropriate 
channel and service levels in 
an integrated contact strategy. 
We will share and level up best 
practice across the Group to 
improve our sales effectiveness. 
Link to KPIs*
•  Group sales growth
Link to Risks**
•  Increasing competition 
•  Customer acquisition, retention 
and frequency of spend
• Delivery of Group strategy
 1
Our vision to be the World’s Distributor of Choice has been consistent 
for many years. Given the evolving structural trends in our industry we 
have revisited our strategic initiatives to ensure we are focused on 
the right priorities to turn our vision into reality. 
Our new global operating model has enabled us to evolve the strategy 
to a common global strategy. 
This global strategy comprises seven strategic priorities, with four key 
growth initiatives supported by three strategic enablers. These seven 
strategic priorities are described below, together with a summary 
of our priorities over the next 12 months for each element of the 
strategy and their link to the Group’s key performance indicators 
(KPIs) and principal risks. 
We believe that this new strategy will enable us to grow faster 
and more proﬁ tably over the medium term.
 “WE ARE CONFIDENT 
THAT OUR SEVEN 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 
WILL ENABLE US TO 
GROW FASTER AND 
MORE PROFITABLY OVER 
THE MEDIUM TERM”
OUR SEVEN 
STRATEGIC 
PRIORITIES 
 3
 2
* More information on our KPIs 
can be found on page 14.
** More information on our risks 
can be found on pages 24 to 27 . 17  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
BUSINESS INSIGHT
We will increase our capability 
to turn data into insight and 
understanding, through 
consistent global data, improved 
data tools and a culture where 
we actively seek new insights.
Priorities for 2014
We will invest in a business 
intelligence system and establish 
the governance structures that 
will make our product data 
readily available to users in one 
place, supporting quicker and 
more effective insight.
Link to Risks**
• Delivery of Group strategy
• Product data integrity
WORLD CLASS SYSTEMS 
AND SUPPL Y CHAIN
We will create a world class 
infrastructure and our systems 
will be built on a single platform 
to give us pace and agility. 
A globally-connected freight 
network will deliver a fast, 
reliable service for customers. 
Priorities for 2014
We will continue to roll out a 
SAP-based system across Asia 
Paciﬁ c, the last region in the 
Group to move to a SAP-based 
platform. Having completed 
the system implementation in 
Australia, we will deliver it to 
South East Asia and begin the 
planning for implementation 
in Greater China. 
Link to Risks**
• Delivery of Group strategy
• Key infrastructure 
dependencies
HIGH PERFORMANCE 
TEAM
Our people will ensure the 
successful delivery of our 
strategy. Our focus will be 
on driving a high performance 
culture that equips our people 
with the skills and capabilities 
that they need to achieve our 
growth ambitions. 
Priorities for 2014
We are focused on building 
the change and programme 
management capabilities and 
identifying the future skills 
requirements to equip the 
Group to deliver our strategy. 
We will act upon our ﬁ rst global 
employee engagement survey.
Link to Risks**
• Delivery of Group strategy
• People risk
VALUE FOR MONEY
We will transform our customers’ 
perceptions of the value we offer 
them, through the consistent, 
global execution of our strategy. 
There will be a step change in 
how we communicate our value 
and why this sets us apart from 
the competition, supported by 
dynamic pricing. 
Priorities for 2014
We will roll out our price 
differentiation strategy globally, 
building on the successful 
piloting of this strategy in 
Europe, and make targeted 
margin investment to develop 
high-value customers. There 
will be automated online price 
messaging to improve our 
service to customers and 
their price perception. 
Link to KPIs*
•  Group sales growth
• Group return on sales
Link to Risks**
• Increasing competition 
• Customer acquisition, retention 
and frequency of spend
• Delivery of Group strategy
• Pricing risk
• Product data integrity
 4 6
 5 7
Grow Target 
customers
One global 
offer
ecommerce
with a 
human touch
value for
money
High 
performance
Team
BUSINESS 
INSIGHT
world class 
systems and 
supply chain
With a Using And a
And with Providing 18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Business review
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND POSITION
Financial Performance
2013 2012
Sales £1,235.6m £1,267 .4m
Gross margin 46.0% 46.8%
Headline contribution
1
£243.7m £266.8m
Headline Group Process costs
1
£(139.4)m £(138.7)m
Headline operating proﬁ t
1
£104.3m £128.1m
Interest (net) £(5.6)m £(5.8)m
Headline proﬁ t before tax
1
£98.7m £122.3m
Headline free cash ﬂ ow
1
£56.1m £52.7m
Headline earnings per share
1
15.7p 19.5p
Dividend per share
2
11.75p 11 .75p
Net debt to EBITDA
3
1.2x 1 .0x
1 Headline measures of proﬁ tability and cash ﬂ ow are deﬁ ned as the relevant 
reported proﬁ t/cash ﬂ ow measure before reorganisation costs/cash ﬂ ows
2 2013: includes 5p interim and 6.75p proposed ﬁ nal dividend
3 EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(inc. government grants)
Sales
The Group delivered annual sales of £1,235.6 million, representing 
underlying full-year sales growth of 0.5% despite a challenging 
economic environment throughout the year. The sales of our 
maintenance products (59% of Group sales) grew by 3%, 
outperforming those of our electronics products (41% of Group 
sales), which declined by 2%. The continued development of the 
Group’s eCommerce channel resulted in eCommerce sales growth 
of 4% and eCommerce averaged 56% of Group sales during the year. 
Around three fewer trading days and adverse currency movements 
reduced Group reported sales by around £38 million.
Gross margin
Gross margin at 46.0% was 0.8% points below the prior year. The rate 
of decline was greatest in the ﬁ rst half, when gross margin was 1 .2% 
points below the prior year, impacted particularly by increased use 
of customer discounts, stronger performance from lower-margin 
technologies and adverse currency movements. Both UK and 
International gross margins were impacted by a similar amount.
At the end of the ﬁ rst half we set out a number of actions to improve 
gross margin during the second half, including a targeted price 
differentiation strategy and improved customer discount effectiveness. 
As a result of these actions the decline in gross margin was reduced 
signiﬁ cantly in the second half to 0.3% points.
Costs
Headline operating costs at constant currency increased by 1 .7% over 
the previous year (versus a 0.1% decline as reported) and increased 
by 0.9% points of sales to 37 .6%. This increase was greatest in the 
ﬁ rst half, when headline operating costs at constant currency 
increased by 3.1%. 
At the end of the ﬁ rst half we set out a number of actions to reduce 
headline operating costs as a percentage of sales in the second half 
as compared to the ﬁ rst half. These included control of discretionary 
costs and efﬁ ciencies from the implementation of our global 
organisation structure. These organisational cost efﬁ ciencies 
amounted to £4 million in the second half, with the annualised 
run-rate being £7 million. The costs of achieving these efﬁ ciencies 
were £7 .4 million, and are recorded as non-recurring reorganisation 
costs below headline proﬁ t before tax. 
As a result of these actions, and after allowing for continued 
investment in search engine marketing to drive future sales growth, 
headline operating costs as a percentage of sales reduced by over 1% 
point in the second half and headline operating costs at constant 
currency were broadly ﬂ at year-on-year. 
Headline proﬁ t before tax
Headline proﬁ t before tax was £98.7 million, a decrease of 
£23.6 million (or 19.3%) on the prior year. Around £10 million of 
this decrease was due to fewer trading days and adverse currency 
movements (principally due to the weakening of the Euro against 
Sterling) compared to the prior year. The remainder of the decrease 
reﬂ ected the lower gross margin and increase in headline operating 
costs at constant currency noted above.
From a regional perspective the decrease in headline proﬁ t before tax 
was primarily the result of the International business contribution 
reducing by £23.0 million, with all regions within International 
impacted by gross margin pressure and negative operating leverage. 
Continental Europe’s contribution declined by £8.9 million, North 
America contribution fell by £8.4 million, whilst Asia Paciﬁ c’s 
contribution fell by £5.7 million.
There was a signiﬁ cant improvement in headline proﬁ t before tax 
in the second half (£57 .2 million) as compared to the ﬁ rst half 
(£41 .5 million), primarily reﬂ ecting the impact of our actions to 
improve gross margin and control operating costs described above, 
together with normal seasonality.
Reported proﬁ t before tax
Reported proﬁ t before tax comprises headline proﬁ t before tax after 
reorganisation costs. During the year non-recurring reorganisation 
costs of £7 .4 million were recorded. These costs primarily related 
to redundancy charges arising from the implementation of the 
new global operating model. 
SIGNIFICANT IMPRO VEMENT IN 
SECOND HALF PERFORMANCE 
VS. FIRST HALF 19  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate was 30% of headline proﬁ t before tax, 
a reduction of 1% point from the prior year. The effective tax rate on 
reported proﬁ t before tax was 31%, the same rate as in the prior year. 
The Group’s current effective tax rate includes the effect of a signiﬁ cant 
and continuing increase in the deferred tax liability due to the tax 
amortisation of overseas goodwill. This deferred tax liability is not 
expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future. The effective tax rate 
was higher than the cash tax rate of 28% of headline proﬁ t before tax, 
which is expected to increase going forward as prior-year tax losses 
are utilised.
Headline earnings per share
Headline earnings per share of 15.7p decreased by 19% year-on-year, 
broadly in line with the decrease in headline proﬁ t before tax.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a maintained ﬁ nal dividend of 6.75p per share. 
This will be paid on 22 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on 
21 June 2013. As a result, the total dividend for the ﬁ nancial year will 
be maintained at 11 .75p per share, resulting in headline earnings 
dividend cover of 1 .3 times. 
Cash ﬂ ow
Headline free cash ﬂ ow for the year of £56.1 million was 6% above 
the prior-year level. The reduction in headline proﬁ t before tax was 
more than offset by lower working capital and lower capital 
expenditure. Reported free cash ﬂ ow for the year was £49.3 million. 
This was £6.8 million lower than the headline free cash ﬂ ow, reﬂ ecting 
the cash out ﬂ ows associated with the reorganisation of the business.
As planned, stock turn reduced slightly from 2.6 times to 2.5 times, 
reﬂ ecting additional investment in our electronics range. Following the 
major investment in systems in North America, UK and Continental 
Europe in the previous year, net capital expenditure reduced by 
£10.4 million as the Group’s systems investment moved to Asia Paciﬁ c.
In the next year we are planning to invest around £40 million in capital 
expenditure to support our medium-term growth ambitions (2013: 
£27 million). This increase in capital expenditure is consistent with the 
planned step-up in investment over the next ﬁ ve years to drive faster 
sales growth, as outlined in the strategy update. We will continue the 
phased implementation of a new IT system in Asia Paciﬁ c. Additional 
investment will be targeted at our new strategic priorities, including 
further enhancements to the Group’s eCommerce functionality, a 
business intelligence system to improve our insight capabilities, and 
systems to enable the levelling up of the RS and Allied product ranges 
as we move towards a single global offer.
Financial position
At 31 March 2013 net debt was £159.7 million. This was £5.5 million 
higher than last year. Dividend payments of £51 .3 million exceeded 
reported free cash ﬂ ow of £49.3 million. The balance of the movement 
was largely due to ﬁ nance leases and currency movements. 
The Group’s committed debt ﬁ nance comprises a syndicated 
multicurrency facility (currency split: US $75 million, £120 million, 
€50 million) from seven banks maturing in November 2015, together 
with $150 million of US Private Placement (PP) Notes, comprising 
$65 million with a June 2015 maturity and $85 million with a June 
2017 maturity. Taken together, the Group’s committed debt facilities 
and loans amount to £305.3 million, of which £149.2 million was 
undrawn as at 31 March 2013. 
Year end net debt comprised gross borrowings of £169.0 million 
(currency split: £61 .3 million US Dollars, £70.6 million Sterling, 
£32.0 million Euros and the balance in other currencies) and ﬁ nancial 
assets of £9.3 million. The currency mix is designed to partially hedge 
the Group’s translation exposures. The peak month-end net borrowing 
during the year (using monthly exchange rates) was £202.2 million. 
The Group’s ﬁ nancial metrics remain strong with net debt to EBITDA 
of 1 .2 times and EBITA interest cover of 21 .1 times, with signiﬁ cant 
headroom to the Group’s banking covenants.
Pension 
The Group has deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes in the UK, Ireland 
and Germany. All these schemes are closed to new entrants and in 
Germany the pension scheme is closed to accruals for future service. 
Under IAS 19, the combined gross deﬁ cit of the Group’s deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t schemes was £19.0 million at 31 March 2013. This balance 
comprised a £5.7 million deﬁ cit in Germany, £0.9 million deﬁ cit in 
the Republic of Ireland and £12.4 million deﬁ cit in the UK.
The largest deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme is in the UK where the accounting 
valuation as at 31 March 2013 disclosed a deﬁ cit of £12.4 million 
compared to a surplus of £10.6 million last year (before the application 
of IFRIC14). This movement was principally caused by higher liabilities, 
due to a lower discount rate assumption, partially offset by actuarial 
gains caused by returns on assets being higher than expected. As a 
result of changing ﬁ nancial assumptions, principally around discount and 
inﬂ ation rates, we expect the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t non-cash pension cost to 
increase in the year ended 31 March 2014 by an additional £1 million.
Amendments to IAS 19 became effective for periods beginning on and 
after 1 January 2013. We have not adopted these amendments in the 
Group’s 2013 accounts but will adopt them for the ﬁ rst time in the 
Group’s 2014 accounts. If these amendments had been applied to the 
Group’s accounts for the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 March 2013, they 
would have increased the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t non-cash pension expense 
in the income statement by approximately £5 million. When we publish 
the Group’s accounts for the ﬁ nancial year ending 31 March 2014 we 
will restate the prior-year pension charge to reﬂ ect these amendments. 20 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CONTINENTAL EUROPE
2013 2012
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £426.2m £456.3m (6.6)% 0.6%
Contribution £90.9m £99.8m (8.9)% (3.3)%
Contribution % 
of sales 21.3% 21 .9%
1 Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
Our business in Continental Europe operates in ﬁ fteen markets. 
The largest of these are France, Germany and Italy, which together 
comprise around 70% of sales in the region. The remaining markets 
are Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Ireland, 
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
Following a ﬂ at underlying sales performance in the ﬁ rst half there 
was a slight improvement in underlying sales growth across the region 
during the second half, resulting in 1% growth for the full year. During 
the year the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs) were 
below 50 in our major European markets, indicative of a contracting 
manufacturing sector, so we believe that our sales performance reﬂ ects 
positively on our initiatives to improve the customer proposition. 
The region continued to make good progress expanding its online 
business, generating 10% eCommerce sales growth during the year. 
eCommerce sales share was 66% over the period compared to 61% 
in the prior year, approaching our Group target of 70%. Increased 
search engine marketing and the signiﬁ cant enhancements to our 
websites, which have made the process of buying products clearer, 
faster and easier, have supported this performance. 
During the year the European business strengthened its leading 
automation & control offer, expanding its Siemens stocked range 
to more than 20,000 products and launching the complete Omron 
industrial safety product range across Europe.
Having taken the decision to defer the European catalogue in the 
previous ﬁ nancial year, we reintroduced it this year (for the ﬁ rst time 
it covers the entire Europe, Middle East and Africa region in one 
catalogue). Whilst the catalogue has been received positively by 
our customers, this means that the year-on-year comparison of 
contribution has been adversely impacted by around £1 million, being 
the costs associated with producing and marketing the catalogue. 
The 3% decline in contribution at constant currency reﬂ ected a lower 
gross margin and these catalogue costs, together with ﬁ xed cost 
inﬂ ation in an environment of low sales growth. 
“ effi ciencies were 
realised following the 
implementation of the new 
global operating model ”
INTERNATIONAL
2013 2012
Growth 
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £860.5m £902.7m (4.7)% (0.8)%
Gross margin 44.6% 45.4%
Operating costs £(245.7)m £(249.4)m 1 .5% (1 .4)%
Contribution £137 .8m £160.8m (14.3)% (11 .4)%
Contribution % 
of sales 16.0% 17 .8%
1 Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
The International business represents 70% of Group revenue and 
comprises three regions: Continental Europe (50% of the International 
business), North America (31%) and Asia Paciﬁ c (19%). 
During the year, underlying sales declined by 1%, primarily due to a 
3% decline in North America sales. Our Continental Europe business 
grew sales by 1%, whilst Asia Paciﬁ c sales were ﬂ at. 
International eCommerce sales grew by 1%, driven by a strong 
performance in Continental Europe which offset declines in 
eCommerce sales in North America and Asia Paciﬁ c. The two latter 
regions delivered a signiﬁ cant improvement in eCommerce sales 
growth rates in the second half as compared to the ﬁ rst half.
International gross margin declined by 0.8% points over the year, with 
all regions within International reporting a similar decline. The decline 
eased in the second half to 0.5% points as compared to 1 .2% points 
in the ﬁ rst half. This reﬂ ected the action we took to improve customer 
discount effectiveness and implement a targeted price differentiation 
strategy. Throughout the year there has been a negative product mix 
impact on gross margin due to a stronger sales performance from 
lower-margin technologies, such as test & measurement.
International operating costs at constant currency grew by 1 .4%. 
As with the gross margin, there was a signiﬁ cant improvement in 
this measure in the second half as compared to the ﬁ rst half, when 
operating costs at constant currency grew by 4.4%. Whilst there 
continued to be ﬁ xed cost inﬂ ation in the second half, efﬁ ciencies 
were realised following the implementation of the new global 
operating model and discretionary costs were tightly controlled. 
As a result, operating costs at constant currency declined by 1 .6%
in the second half.
As a result of the above-mentioned movements, underlying 
contribution at constant currency decreased by 11%. Contribution 
as a percentage of sales reduced by 1 .8% points to 16.0%.
Business review continued 21  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
ASIA PACIFIC
2013 2012
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £165.7m £168.9m (1 .9)% (0.1)%
Contribution £12.0m £17 .7m (32.2)% (32.4)%
Contribution % 
of sales 7 .2% 10.5%
1 Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
The Group’s business in Asia Paciﬁ c is the region’s market leader, 
operating across 13 markets. Sales across the region are split broadly 
equally between Japan, Australasia, Greater China and South East 
Asia. During the year the region reported ﬂ at underlying sales growth, 
reﬂ ecting growth in our emerging markets of Greater China and South 
East Asia and declines in Japan and Australasia. 
Greater China and South East Asia delivered sales growth in both the 
ﬁ rst half and second half, beneﬁ ting from the investment in additional 
products that we have been making in recent years to improve our 
product range, notably in China.
Our Japanese business, which is primarily focused on electronics, 
faced particularly difﬁ cult trading conditions during the ﬁ rst nine 
months of the ﬁ nancial year. Tough comparators and deteriorating 
manufacturing PMIs compounded a difﬁ cult environment for 
electronics globally. During the ﬁ nal quarter the manufacturing PMI 
improved to the neutral 50 level and the rate of sales decline eased.
Australasia had a strong ﬁ rst quarter, but this then gave way to a more 
challenging trading environment as the Australian natural resources 
sector slowed. Against this backdrop the business successfully went 
live with a new IT system. 
The region’s eCommerce performance was impacted by the weak 
Japan sales performance, as Japan has a high eCommerce sales 
share of around 70%. As a result, eCommerce sales in Asia Paciﬁ c 
declined by 3% during the year (growth of 3% excluding Japan). 
eCommerce sales share over the year was ﬂ at at around 50%.
Asia Paciﬁ c had considerable success winning large corporate 
accounts during the year, securing over 30 new contracts, and the 
region’s product offer was enhanced via new agreements with 
Agilent Technologies and an extended partnership with SMC.
Asia Paciﬁ c’s contribution as a percentage of sales reduced to 7 .2% 
from 10.5%, primarily reﬂ ecting increased operating costs, due to 
inﬂ ation, higher stock costs and investment in marketing initiatives 
to raise our brand awareness, and a reduction in gross margin.
NORTH AMERICA
2013 2012
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £268.6m £277 .5m (3.2)% (3.3)%
Contribution £34.9m £43.3m (19.4)% (20.3)%
Contribution % 
of sales 13.0% 15.6%
1 Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
Allied, our North American business, reported an underlying sales 
decline of 3.3% during the year. Following a decline of 5.1% in the 
ﬁ rst half, there was an improvement in sales performance during 
the second half. 
The second-half improvement did not reﬂ ect a change in trading 
conditions – the majority of Allied’s sales relate to electronics which 
remained a difﬁ cult market during both the ﬁ rst half and second half. 
Instead, the improvement in sales performance reﬂ ected a 
combination of easier comparators as the year progressed and 
enhanced sales force productivity following the temporary decline 
in this during the ﬁ rst half, when the sales force were adapting to 
the new IT system implemented in January 2012. 
System enhancements during the second half also improved Allied’s 
website functionality and our online sales performance. eCommerce 
sales declined by 26% in the ﬁ rst half following a temporary reduction 
in online functionality but, after the online functionality was restored 
in the second half, strong eCommerce sales growth returned and the 
full-year eCommerce sales decline reduced to 16%. eCommerce 
sales share improved from 32% in the ﬁ rst half to 36% in the second 
half, and is on track to return to the 40% level it reached during the 
prior ﬁ nancial year.
During the year Allied added over 30,000 new products to its portfolio, 
including products from new suppliers such as Siemens, Keithley 
Instruments/Tektronix and Y okogawa. The business extended its product 
range with Panasonic to include passives and semiconductors, and 
signed a new distribution agreement with Orion Power Systems to 
add its power protection solutions for data and security applications 
to its product portfolio. Allied’s strong automation & control offer was 
signiﬁ cantly enhanced during the year when the business signed 
an agreement with Siemens to become an authorised distributor 
of Siemens’ low-voltage products.
The 20% reduction in contribution at constant exchange rates 
primarily reﬂ ected the negative operating leverage caused by 
ﬁ xed cost inﬂ ation against a backdrop of lower sales, together 
with a lower gross margin. 22 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
UK
2013 2012
Growth 
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £375.1m £364.7m 2.9% 3.7%
Gross margin 49.3% 50.0%
Operating costs £(79.0)m £(76.5)m (3.2)% (3.2)%
Contribution £105.9m £106.0m (0.1)% (0.1)%
Contribution % 
of sales 28.2% 29.1%
1 Sales adjusted for trading days
Our UK operation, which celebrated its 75th anniversary during 
the year, is the largest high service distributor in its market. The UK 
business reported underlying sales growth of 3.7%, of which 2.3% 
points comprised sales of Raspberry Pi both within the UK and 
internationally. Raspberry Pi is a low-cost, credit card-sized single-board 
computer designed and developed by the Raspberry Pi Foundation, 
a charity established to promote computer development skills in 
education across the world. As such, it is a lower-margin product.
Excluding the sales of Raspberry Pi products and accessories, the 
UK business generated 1 .4% underlying sales growth. Maintenance 
comprises around 75% of the UK’s sales, and the relatively low 
exposure to the electronics market beneﬁ ted the UK’s performance. 
There was a good performance from our corporate accounts as we 
continued to attract new customers and expand our product range 
with existing accounts. We also began to sell value-added services 
to these accounts, such as insight into their procurement behaviour. 
Corporate accounts now contribute over a quarter of the UK’s sales.
eCommerce revenue grew by 10% during the year, with eCommerce 
revenue share averaging 62% compared to 58% in the prior year. This 
strong performance was driven by continued investment in search 
engine marketing and search engine optimisation, the development 
of our online chat service, Live Chat, and the enhancements made to 
our websites to make it easier for customers to order and purchase 
products from us.
Following the 1 .4% point reduction in gross margin in the ﬁ rst half, the 
UK’s gross margin returned to 50% in the second half, as it beneﬁ ted 
from our actions to improve customer discount effectiveness and our 
price differentiation strategy versus the competition. This resulted in a 
full-year decline in gross margin of 0.7% points which, combined with 
3% cost growth from increased sales volumes and inﬂ ation, led to an 
unchanged contribution year-on-year. Contribution as a percentage of 
sales was maintained at a strong level in excess of 28%. 
PROCESSES
2013 2012
Change 
reported
Change
underlying
1
Process costs £(139.4)m £(138.7)m (0.5)% (1 .5)%
Costs % of sales (11.3)% (11 .0)%
1 Adjusted for currency
The Processes principally comprise our teams that manage our 
Group-wide Marketing, Offer and IT activities, together with Group 
management and head ofﬁ ce costs. Process costs rose by 1 .5% 
at constant exchange, primarily reﬂ ecting the impact of ﬁ xed cost 
inﬂ ation offset by efﬁ ciencies following the move to a global 
operating model. 
There has been ongoing investment in our initiatives to drive future 
sales growth. This includes enhancements to our websites to make 
it faster and easier to buy products from us. We have also made 
improvements to our leading suite of technical design tools for 
customers. Version 4.0 of DesignSpark PCB now features a new 
library manager, which integrates with ModelSource, a new online 
component library which is freely available as a standalone tool via 
the DesignSpark website. The libraries are aligned with our product 
offer and enable engineers to focus on innovation, research and 
development rather than spending time on creating the basic 
building blocks of the design.
We have strengthened existing partnerships with leading global 
brands and added new suppliers to our product portfolio. RS added 
over 40,000 new products in the year, with Allied adding over 30,000. 
We have extended our relationship with Siemens to North America, 
added passives and semiconductors to our Panasonic range in North 
America, expanded our portfolio of Agilent Technologies test & 
measurement products in Asia Paciﬁ c and signed a new distribution 
agreement with Samtec, a leading supplier of connectors, covering 
Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Paciﬁ c. 
Following the move to a global operating model we have also signed 
a number of new global freight contracts. These agreements will 
further improve the service provision to customers and provide 
support for driving sales growth while reducing the total cost of 
global freight services.
Business review continued 23  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
In the ﬁ rst seven weeks of the new ﬁ nancial year, the Group has 
delivered sales growth of 1%. The International business grew by 1% 
and the UK was ﬂ at. Within International, Continental Europe grew by 
2%, North America grew by 1% and Asia Paciﬁ c declined by 1%.
Whilst mindful of challenging economic conditions, we are 
implementing our common global strategy and expect to make 
progress towards our medium-term performance goals. The Group 
is well placed to capture market share in its international markets 
and we are therefore increasing investment in our strategic initiatives.
Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive
Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director
23 May 2013 
“ the group is well placed 
to capture market share 
in its international 
markets and we are 
therefore increasing 
investment in our 
strategic initiatives”
To watch Simon’s video interview visit: 
www.electrocomponents.com
“ In the next year we 
are planning to invest 
around £40 million 
in capital expenditure 
to support our 
medium-term growth 
ambitions”
WATCH SIMON’S VIDEO INTERVIEW ONLINE 24 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Princip al risks and uncert ainties
MANA GING 
OUR RISKS 
EFFECTIVEL Y
GOVERNANCE
The Group has well-established risk management and internal control 
processes for the identiﬁ cation, assessment and management of the strategic, 
operational, ﬁ nancial and compliance risks likely to affect the achievement of 
the Group’s corporate and strategic objectives.
The risk management process
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management process. 
The effectiveness of the process is reviewed annually through the Audit 
Committee. Day-to-day management of risk is delegated to the Group Executive 
Committee (GEC) who are accountable for the risk mitigation activities. 
The GEC conducts a formal review and assessment of the potential risks to the 
Group’s strategy at the start of each ﬁ nancial year, prioritises the agreed risks 
according to an assessment of the Group’s risk tolerance limits and allocates 
responsibility to management. The output of this process is reported to the 
Board for review.
All operational businesses complete an annual combined risk and controls 
proﬁ le, which feeds into the overall risk assessment process that is reviewed by 
the GEC and then by the Audit Committee in the annual risk review. The results 
of the risk assessment are factored into the audit plan to focus audit testing on 
key controls within the business.
The risk management process is subject to ongoing review which aims to 
ensure the process is effective and promotes management ownership of risk. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
The following tables present the principal risks to the achievement of the 
Group’s strategic objectives as identiﬁ ed through the risk management 
process described above. 
In light of the signiﬁ cant changes undertaken by the Group this year, including 
the transition to a global operating model and the evolution of a new common 
global strategy, an additional risk has been identiﬁ ed – ‘Risk to the delivery of 
the Group’s strategy’.
The ﬁ rst table, on this page and opposite, is a list of risks assessed as ‘High’. 
Any risk given a high assessment is monitored by the risk owner using an 
agreed set of risk indicators which are reported through to the Board. 
The second table, on pages 26 to 27 , is a list of risks classiﬁ ed as ‘Signiﬁ cant’. 
Owners of all signiﬁ cant risks regularly report the impacts and mitigating actions 
to the GEC. If the risk increases, or if requested, the owner may be called upon 
to present the risk mitigation plans to the Board.
RISK
Macroeconomic conditions
The global economic conditions remain unstable 
and are vulnerable to major shocks such as a 
further banking crisis or sovereign debt defaults. 
The Group’s sales and proﬁ ts could be exposed 
by a worsening of global economic conditions 
and a loss of business conﬁ dence.
Increasing competition in high 
service distribution
New and existing competitors close the service 
gap, offering improved service standards and 
value propositions.
Changes to global competitive markets potentially 
challenge the growth assumptions made in the 
Group’s strategy. 
Customer acquisition, retention and 
frequency of spend is insufﬁ cient to 
meet strategic objectives
The business does not attract sufﬁ cient numbers 
of new customers and is unable to develop new 
and existing customer behaviour to increase order 
frequency at a sustained level.
Risks to the delivery of the Group’s strategy
The Group’s strategic objectives will require 
close management and co-ordination to be 
delivered effectively.
The risk is that the Group’s resources and 
capabilities will be challenged by the scale 
and complexity of what is required.
Pricing
Customers value the high service model less in 
a price sensitive market. 
The risk is that our competitors close the service 
gap and become more competitive on price.  25  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
IMPACT KEY RISK MEASURES MITIGATING ACTIONS
Threat
• Reduced sales
• Lowering of operational leverage
• Excess stock
• Bad debt increase
• Funding shortfall
Opportunity
• Focus on markets served by 
smaller competitors 
• Customers reduce stock holding and use 
Electrocomponents to source components
• Free cash ﬂ ow
• Available headroom in banking covenants 
and facilities
• Working capital metrics
• Interest cover
• Net debt to EBITDA
• Costs as a percentage of sales
• Cash generative business
• Strong balance sheet
• Signiﬁ cant headroom to the Group’s 
banking covenants and facilities
• Manage costs
• Increasing global penetration
• Stock management
Threat
• Declining barriers to entry for new 
market entrants
• Customer switching costs reduce
• Increase in supply side options 
increases competition 
Opportunity
• Incumbency advantages in key markets
• Capabilities in place to adapt quickly to 
market changes and new opportunities
• Gross margin
• Customer loyalty/propensity to substitute
• Relative price performance to competitors
• Extensive and growing range in 
key technologies
• Dynamic pricing strategy
• Maintain high service level globally
• Enhance online experience
• Ongoing review of competitive forces 
and environment
• Access to distribution channels
Threat
• Insufﬁ cient numbers of new customers
• Development of new customers 
behind target
• Average order frequency/value does 
not improve 
• Unable to achieve sustainable 
sales growth
Opportunity
• Increased sales and proﬁ tability
• Sustained growth in market share
• New customer acquisition
• Average order frequency/average 
order value
• Metrics on new customer purchasing 
behaviours
• Customer retention metrics
• Customer satisfaction measures
• Customer acquisition campaign
• Brand awareness programmes 
in new markets
• Development programme to inﬂ uence 
new customer purchasing behaviours
• Improvements to the online customer 
journey
• Targeted and relevant mass marketing 
programmes
• Continuing high levels of new product 
introductions
Threat
• Insufﬁ cient internal expertise
• Risk of implementation delays and 
cost overrun
• Unexpected events disrupt delivery 
timeframes
Opportunity
• Clearly deﬁ ned strategic direction 
and opportunity
• Develop market-leading capabilities 
and service
• Programme management review 
and reporting processes
• Monitoring of beneﬁ ts and costs
• Monitoring against deﬁ ned programme 
delivery methodology
• Operational excellence and continuous 
improvement challenge
• Clearly deﬁ ned business objectives 
and implementation planning
• Global organisational structure in place
• RS/Allied ‘The Way We Work’ behaviours 
and global change programme in place
• Functional ownership of projects with 
resourced programme management 
process in place 
Threat
• Pressure on gross margin from lower 
prices and increased customer discounts
• Lower sales if we do not act quickly
Opportunity
• Differentiated by industry-leading 
service levels
• Sales opportunity for RS-branded 
value products 
• Gross margin
• Value for money performance
• Competitor price matching coverage
• Frequency of price reviews
• RS brand sales growth
• Service level performance indicators
• Dynamic pricing strategy
• Adapt sale prices in response to and 
in anticipation of external factors
• Increase price matches with 
competitor products
• Continue focus on customer service
• Monitor and maintain customer order 
ﬁ ll and line ﬁ ll 26 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Principal risks and uncert ainties continued
The following have been assessed as ‘Signiﬁ cant risks’. These are monitored regularly by the GEC and if there are any signiﬁ cant changes
in the level of risk the Board is updated by the risk owner.
RISK IMPACT
Product data integrity 
The risk is that current information and data structures inhibit the 
future effectiveness of eCommerce and the wider customer offer. 
The risk anticipates increasing market demands for faster rates 
of new product introductions, price changes and provision 
of comprehensive product information.
• Customers ﬁ nd the website difﬁ cult to use, resulting in lost sales
Key infrastructure dependencies
As a high service distributor, there is a reliance on our warehousing 
and on our key IT infrastructure to support business operations.
• A prolonged disruption to our key infrastructure would impact 
order taking and order fulﬁ lment, resulting in lost sales
Risks to the effective management of the range
Ongoing development of the range with shortening product 
life cycles potentially increases the exposure of the business 
to higher levels of stock obsolescence as well as operational 
capacity constraints.
• Reducing stock turns
• Increase in stock provision costs
• Deteriorating operational efﬁ ciency due to limitations on product 
induction and warehousing capacity
People risk
The business is unable to attract or retain high-performing employees.
Staff are not fully engaged and supportive of the business strategy. 
• We do not deliver the Group strategy
Foreign exchange rate volatility 
Currency exchange rate volatility.
• Increased uncertainty in business planning, product procurement 
costs and income statement exposures
Pension cost increases 
Worsening economic conditions and weakening assumptions could 
lead to an increase in the liabilities and a reduction in the assets of 
the UK deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme.
•  Increase in costs in the Income Statement
• Increasing cash contributions to the scheme
“ All operational businesses feed 
into the risk assessment process. 
The results of the annual risk 
review are factored into the 
audit plan to focus audit 
testing on key controls” 27  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
MITIGATING ACTIONS
• Strategic content programme delivering improvements in product data and content quality
• Customer surveys to monitor customer expectations
• Strong governance structures in place for new product introductions
• Contingency plans in place for our IT systems infrastructure 
• Strict controls over upgrades to core systems and other applications 
• Rigorous test processes prior to any new system release
• Business continuity plans at warehouses, regularly tested
• Monitoring and analysis of new product developments to identify high-potential products and ranges
• Monitoring of products through their lifecycle
• Contractual arrangements with key suppliers on stock purchasing and product buy-back
• Continuous improvement programmes to improve operational effectiveness and capacity to support range growth
• Training to develop existing employee competencies, new external expertise introduced where appropriate
• Employee appraisal process seeks to align personal objectives with the Group’s strategic objectives 
• Employee involvement in identifying and implementing changes to improve customer experience and deliver efﬁ ciencies
• Annual employee survey, with initiatives targeted to address issues identiﬁ ed in the survey
• Forward contracts used against planned expenditure, increased purchasing of stock in Euros and US Dollars 
• Treasury Committee sets agreed risk tolerance levels
• Compliance against foreign exchange exposure targets reported to Treasury Committee monthly
• Regular quarterly reviews of pension scheme funding position
• Regular interaction with the pension scheme Trustee
• Joint Trustee/company working party meets at least quarterly to review investments 28 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corpora te responsibility
DELIVERING 
SUST AINABLE 
GRO WTH
n September 2012 we celebrated our 75th anniversary. 
Having started life selling parts for radios from a small garage 
in London, Radiospares, now known as RS Components, 
offered 50 products in its six-page catalogue. Today we offer 90,000 
electronics and maintenance products in our catalogue and 550,000 
products online. As in 1937 our business model is still based on high 
service, offering same day despatch, but now we serve over one 
million customers internationally from distribution centres in 
17 locations across the world.
Corporate responsibility (CR) is an integral part of our business and 
as our business has evolved so has our commitment to sound CR 
policies and practices across the globe. Our key stakeholders include 
customers, suppliers, investors, employees, and communities, 
who expect us to be an honourable and moral organisation. 
Our Group Chief Executive is the Director responsible for CR and 
the Board of Electrocomponents takes account of CR matters in the 
Group’s business operations. Our new Non-Executive Directors have 
visited our distribution centres in the UK as part of their induction. 
We believe that the progressive alignment of our values and strategy 
with responsible and ethical business policies and practices is a driver 
for sustainable growth and success across the world.
Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, which 
measures the performance of companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility standards. We have been 
included in the 2013 Corporate Knights Global 100 List of sustainable 
corporations based on the disclosure of our sustainability practices, 
ﬁ nancial health, product category and ﬁ nancial sanctions. This is the 
ﬁ fth time in the past seven years that Electrocomponents has been 
included in the Global 100 list.
We have identiﬁ ed the following corporate responsibility risks as 
having the greatest potential impact on our business and key 
stakeholders: carbon emissions, paper usage, product packaging, 
waste, health and safety issues, employee and community 
engagement. We address these risks and communicate our ﬁ ndings 
under three separate headings: Our People, Our Community and 
Our Environment. This year we have made encouraging progress 
on all three elements of our CR agenda. 
Our people are our greatest asset and keeping them safe and healthy 
is of paramount importance. Our ﬁ ve-year global safety strategy was 
developed and implemented in 2012 and has already led to some 
impressive results, including a decrease of nearly 50% in reported 
accidents. In recognition of our health and safety success over this 
year, we have been awarded the Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents (RoSPA) Silver award for ongoing commitment to raising 
occupational health and safety standards.
“ We believe tha t 
the progressive 
alignment of 
our values and 
strategy with 
responsible and 
ethical business 
policies and 
practices is 
a driver for 
sustainable 
growth and 
success across 
the world”
I
highlights 2013
24%
reduction in lost time 
accidents
10% 
reduction in total waste 
generated
82%
participation in global 
employee engagement 
survey
Silver award in RoSPA 
Occupational Health and 
Safety Awards
  29  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
Following the restructure of our business into a global organisation 
in 2012, we have conducted our ﬁ rst global employee survey to 
learn how our people are feeling about the opportunity ahead, what 
motivates them and what’s important to them. During the year ending 
31 March 2014 we will digest the results of this survey and implement 
initiatives to address areas of concern highlighted to us by that survey. 
Our reputation in the local community is important to us. We believe 
that we play a valuable role in supporting the development of our local 
communities and therefore invest time and resource in engaging 
with them. Our Community activities are strongly supported by 
our employees and we encourage our people to get involved. 
Local community activity and charitable giving are recorded and 
the results are monitored and reported to the Group.
We use a set of key performance indicators (KPIs) to assess and 
monitor the environmental performance of our businesses and sites. 
Our KPIs index environmental impacts to sales to reﬂ ect performance 
adjusted for business growth. This enables us to benchmark individual 
areas of the Group’s business and helps identify opportunities for 
performance improvement. 
The Group has a policy manual, Our Standards, which sets out the 
standards of behaviour to which every employee is expected to work 
and which deﬁ nes the core values and principles we apply in dealing 
with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The manual 
covers gifts, hospitality and donations, fraud, compliance, competition 
law, conﬂ icts of interest and respect for our employees. We issue Our 
Standards annually to our management population across the Group 
in seven languages. 
We have a zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and 
corruption. The Anti-Bribery Policy applies to all businesses, Directors 
and employees within our Group to ensure compliance with all laws 
and regulations governing bribery and corruption in the countries in 
which we operate.  30 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corpora te responsibility continued
OUR PEOPLE....
We value our people and foster a culture that embodies our Group 
behaviours: Respect, High Performance, Working Together, Dynamic, 
and Customer Focused. We want to build a Group where our 
employees work together as one global team with one global vision, 
inspire trust amongst each other through openness and honesty and 
drive superior standards of professionalism. Our aim is to encourage 
accountability and continuous improvement while nurturing an 
innovative attitude. Our customers are at the heart of our business 
and we strive to continually meet their expectations.
We are committed to ‘Building a Great Place to Work’ and believe 
that we can attain this if we cultivate engaged employees who live 
by our Group behaviours. Employee engagement remains key to 
our business. We have also conducted our ﬁ rst global employee 
engagement survey, My Voice, which we will use to shape our future 
plans. An impressive 82% of employees participated. We recognise 
that developing their skills, motivation and teamwork is key to 
achieving our strategic objectives and are committed to helping 
them reach their full potential.
We conduct performance appraisals twice a year, encourage regular 
one-to-ones with line managers and use tools such as 360 feedback. 
Development programmes are offered and delivered through speciﬁ c 
courses, on-the-job and virtual learning. We also offer a number of 
global programmes, such as Leadership Coaching.
Our evolution to a global operating model has resulted in a year of 
signiﬁ cant change for our people. We involved our senior leaders 
in deﬁ ning and agreeing the changes, ensuring that we remained 
fair and transparent throughout the process. We recognised the 
importance of effective and regular communication, and encouraged 
employee feedback, using a variety of channels including videos, 
newsletters, emails, and our intranet. We encouraged our managers 
to provide regular support to their teams so that our people 
understood why change was necessary. We have created a network 
of global Change Champions to support our people as we implement 
the changes necessary to achieve our seven strategic priorities. 
We respect the rights of our employees and aim to treat them with 
dignity and consideration. We are committed to a policy of equality 
and apply the same criteria to all employees regardless of gender, 
disability, ethnicity or any other factor that could be the cause of 
discrimination. Our focus is to educate our managers to create a 
more diverse and inclusive culture. This includes reverse mentoring to 
provide insight into another perspective and to challenge stereotype 
and judgement. We also monitor statistics around recruitment, 
promotion and exit to provide insight for improving our processes.
All of the Group’s employment and training policies are compliant 
with relevant employment legislation and regulatory obligations. 
Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining offered to 
any employee who develops a disability during their employment.
....AND THEIR HEALTH AND SAFETY
Health and safety is a key element of ‘Building a Great Place to Work’ 
and integral to continued economic success and a sustainable future. 
Our core objective is to achieve long-term cultural change within the 
business, promoting good practice and behaviours amongst all 
employees. Our health and safety systems, processes and 
organisation are embedded as a core activity and underpin many 
wider business strategies.
With 17 distribution centres across the world, accident prevention is a 
high priority. The implementation of the ﬁ ve-year global safety strategy 
has produced signiﬁ cant results after just one year. We have reduced 
the number of Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) by 24%, equating to 
0.60 LTAs/200,000 hours. 
The amount of lost time has been reduced by 47% from 770 days 
in 2012 to 405 in 2013. Furthermore, the total number of reported 
accidents, including minor, lost time and road trafﬁ c, has decreased 
by 45% from 967 to 532 in 2013. Near miss reporting remains at a 
high level (4,421 in 2013 compared to 5, 157 in 2012), reﬂ ecting the 
improvement in employee awareness and engagement regarding safety.
This performance has been achieved through a number of initiatives 
including a sustained programme of risk assessments, implementation 
of global health and safety standards, and further leadership and 
safety training. Our ‘Target Zero’ campaign, which has been rolled 
out as a global initiative, has improved the level of safety awareness 
in all markets.
There has been continued investment in safety training, including 
mechanical handling equipment, management training, safety 
leadership and ﬁ re safety training, and the majority of our employees 
attended a safety training course. In the coming year we will 
implement a wellbeing strategy, including occupational health 
education, to further aid and beneﬁ t our people.
In recognition of our success we achieved a Silver award in the RoSPA 
Occupational Health and Safety Awards, an improvement over our 
Bronze award of last year. In Italy we also received the ‘Enterprise 
Award for Safety’. In the UK, the British Standards Institute (BSI) 
three-yearly re-accreditation process for Environment (BS 14001) and 
Health and Safety (BS 18001) standards was successful. We were 
also chosen as an ofﬁ cial European campaign partner of the EU-OSHA 
Healthy Workplaces Campaign 2012-2013, ‘Working together for 
risk prevention’.
lost time accidents (LTAs)/200,000 hours 
2008 2010 2011 2012 2013
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
1.5 31  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
“ Through our offices and 
distribution centres we 
have strong links to our 
local communities”
MY COMMUNITY 
IN ACTION
In September 2012 the My Community forum was created in 
Corby, UK, to focus on employee-led community and volunteer 
activities. A framework was developed with clear guidelines to 
ensure that the forum operates in an open, fair and transparent 
manner. My Community is inclusive and accessible to all 
employees and our people offer their participation on a 
voluntary basis.
The My Community management committee meets monthly 
to review and make decisions about community activities and 
charity requests. An annual budget is made available to support 
employee-led initiatives on a matched giving basis and to 
support local school initiatives. 
A My Community newsletter is published monthly and initiatives 
are promoted internally and communicated externally through 
public relations activities. Since its launch My Community has 
raised more than £27 ,000 through a number of fundraising events 
and has made donations to a vast number of local charities.
Through an employee request My Community was able to help 
support Uppingham College students to build a car to enter into 
a local young engineers competition. The original request was 
for ﬁ nancial support for the students to then go and purchase 
parts for the car. However, the outcome of discussions saw 
the students spending one of their evening sessions searching 
the RS website for the parts, providing a parts list which 
My Community provided the funding for. 
OUR COMMUNITY
In our key markets around the world we are a major local employer 
and we believe that we have a responsibility to these communities. 
Our employees feel passionately about supporting the local 
communities they live in, so we encourage our people and give them 
the opportunity to be involved with charitable activities. We encourage 
a multi-level approach to these activities as we believe this drives a 
greater degree of employee and community engagement than simply 
donating cash and stock. We support: 
• Provision of time and expertise
• Employee-led fundraising
• Direct donations
• Corporate matching of donations
• Donations of stock
This year we are implementing a Group community engagement 
policy, which lays down the key principles for our approach to 
community engagement and charitable giving. To ensure that 
our community engagement efforts are as effective as possible, 
we will focus on the following:
• Supporting charities which provide for the advancement of 
education, health or saving lives
• Supporting charities which provide relief to those in need by reason 
of youth, age, ill-health, disability or poverty
We believe that this more structured approach will enhance our local 
teams’ efforts and enable us to deliver more signiﬁ cant results 
globally. We do, however, continue to encourage local decision-making 
regarding the speciﬁ c charities our teams wish to support to ensure 
maximum employee engagement.
Across the world our employees have invested their time and money 
to raise funds for valuable causes. Some key highlights are as follows:
• In the United States, the Allied team donated $37 ,000 to United 
Way, an organisation dedicated to improving education, income 
and health in communities across the country. In November Allied 
donated $10,000 to the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund 
to support relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Sandy
• In Italy, the team donated €12,000 to those affected by the 
earthquake in Emilia, north of Bologna
• In Asia Paciﬁ c, the team donated £2,652 to those RS staff affected 
by Typhoon Gener in the Philippines. Flood victims in Mindano 
were also helped by RS through donations of clothing
• In Australia, the RS team raised over £1,300 by taking part in 
City2Surf, a 14km annual fun run, and donated the monies to 
a cancer charity
• In South Africa, a team of RS volunteers entered a 97km cycle race 
on the roads of Johnnesburg and raised around £3,500 for the 
Endangered Wildlife T rust 32 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corpora te responsibility continued
“ OUR Group Environmental 
Policy Statement commits us 
to identifying and managing 
the environmental impacts 
associated with our activities”
Recycling performance also improved in the year with 79% of total 
waste being recycled, up from 74% in 2011 . A key factor in this 
performance was the ‘zero to landﬁ ll’ campaign implemented in the 
UK business which gained a bronze award from the ‘Let’s Recycle’ 
campaign for the progress made during the year. 
Packaging and Paper
Packaging
Total Packaging Consumed 
(Tonnes)
Packaging Per Line Ordered
(Kg)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
5,895 5,497 4,959 0.26 0.24 0.23
The increasing importance of the internet for customer 
communications has allowed us to review the frequency with which 
we issue our catalogues to our customers. We have moved to an 
annual print frequency allowing us to reduce both our costs and 
resources consumed.
We work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and printers 
to improve the carbon footprint of the catalogue which remains an 
important channel for our customers. All the pulp for the catalogues 
is sourced from either the Sustainable Forestry Initiative or the 
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁ cation (PEFC) 
accredited forest management schemes, with printing carried out 
in ISO14001:2004 certiﬁ cated facilities. 
The growth in the export business from our largest UK distribution 
centres, together with electronic ‘production packing’ of customer 
orders, contributed to a 7% increase in total packaging consumed 
during 2012 to 5,895 tonnes from 5,497 tonnes in 2011 . 
Water
Water Total Water Consumed (m
3
)
Water Consumed / Employee
(Litres per Head)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
52,724 52,604 48,745 8,537 8,725 8,975
The Group’s use of water includes domestic ofﬁ ce use, on-site 
catering, ﬁ re protection purposes and irrigation. We monitor water 
consumption per employee. In calendar year 2012 this ﬁ gure was 
down 2% to 8,537 litres per person from 8,725 litres per person 
in 2011 . Total use is heavily inﬂ uenced by the number of people 
employed, the testing of ﬁ re protection systems and irrigation 
requirements, with a small increase from 52,604m
3
 in 2011 to 
52,724m
3
 in 2012. 
A number of sites across the Group reported reductions in 
consumption during 2012, but our US business reported an increase 
in consumption due to the exceptionally hot summer.
OUR ENVIRONMENT
The Group Environmental Policy Statement explained in Our Standards 
commits us to identifying and managing the environmental impacts 
associated with our activities. The policy and our implementation 
programmes support the Group’s business strategy. Our aims 
are to promote greater efﬁ ciency and progressively reduce our 
environmental impacts per unit of sales. 
Our most signiﬁ cant environmental impacts include the carbon 
emissions due to the consumption of energy at our facilities, together 
with packaging for our products, the generation of waste, and paper 
consumption for the production of our catalogues. 
We encourage businesses to gain the ISO14001:2004 Environmental 
Management Standard where this is supportive of our business 
objectives. Currently 55% of the Group by sales is certiﬁ cated 
to ISO14001 .
Our environmental data is currently reported by calendar year, 
however, from 2014 we will align our environmental reporting 
with our ﬁ nancial year to be consistent with other Group reporting.
Waste and Recycling
Waste T otal Waste (T onnes)
T otal Waste
1
(Tonnes / £m Sales)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
3,129 3,494 3,201 2.52 2.84 2.87
Recycling
Percentage Waste Recycled
1
(Total Waste Recycled / 
T otal Waste) T otal Waste Recycled (T onnes)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
79% 74% 70% 2,461 2,570 2,256
1 KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to reﬂ ect changes in reporting  
methodology and in emissions factors
Our primary waste streams are card, paper, wood and plastics. 
In 2012 waste intensity was reduced by 11% to 2.52 tonnes per 
£m sales (2011: 2.84 tonnes per £m sales). Total waste was down 
10% from 3,494 tonnes in 2011 to 3,129 tonnes in 2012. 
This improvement in waste intensity was achieved through waste 
reduction initiatives at a number of Group sites, together with the 
incremental beneﬁ ts from several innovations. These include 
electronic ordering and invoicing, the use of reusable replenishment 
modules and transit packaging, and supplier contractual clauses for 
the buyback of surplus or obsolete products.  33  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
Emissions
Total Emissions CO
2
Energy Intensity
(Tonnes CO
2
 / £m Sales)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
CO
2
 due 
to premises 
energy 
use
1,2,3
20,103 19,863 21,744 16.2 16.1 19.5
1 CO2 equivalent from all energy sources including country speciﬁ c CO2 factors 
for electricity
2 Excludes a number of smaller facilities included in lease costs
3 KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to reﬂ ect changes in reporting 
methodology and in emissions factors 
Electrocomponents participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project
(CDP). The CDP is a not-for-proﬁ t organisation that assesses and rates 
companies according to their worldwide carbon related disclosures, 
strategies, management and reporting. In 2012 we achieved our best 
score to date, appearing in the top quartile of CDP scoring methodology, 
reﬂ ecting the Group’s progress in managing energy use and the 
resulting CO
2
 emissions.
The main sources of our energy usage and related carbon emissions 
are our premises and operational infrastructure. These represent 
a relatively ﬁ xed element of our carbon emissions footprint, so that 
as we increase sales, our energy intensity metrics will show overall 
improvements in efﬁ ciency. However, as much of our energy use 
relates to space heating in winter and cooling in summer our apparent 
energy-related performance is also subject to climatic variations. 
In calendar year 2012 our CO
2
 emissions intensity due to energy 
use increased by 0.6% to 16.2 tonnes per £m of sales. Absolute 
emissions rose by 1 .2% to 20,103 tonnes from 19,863 tonnes in 2011 . 
Increases in energy consumption were recorded at sites across 
Europe and North America. This was primarily due to climatic factors 
experienced in 2012, with increased winter heating required in Europe 
and increased air conditioning needed at our US business based in 
Texas due to the exceptionally hot summer.
We continue to target improvements in energy efﬁ ciency through 
investment in energy efﬁ cient lighting systems in our locations, 
installing LED and ﬂ uorescent tube lighting systems linked to 
movement sensors across many sites to replace older less efﬁ cient 
lighting installations. 
Energy management systems have now been installed across the 
UK’s trade counter network. These systems, which include automated 
meter reading, allow for more efﬁ cient control of heating and air 
conditioning systems, reducing carbon energy use and carbon 
emissions as well as producing cost savings.
The investment in energy management technology and systems 
supported our UK business in gaining accreditation to the Certiﬁ ed 
Emissions Management and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS) and 
the Greenhouse Gas Data Veriﬁ cation standard, ISO14064-1 . 
High quality video conferencing has been progressively installed at 
facilities across the Group since 2011 to improve time efﬁ ciency and 
cost management by reducing travel requirements. During 2012 the 
use of these facilities, as measured by the number of calls made, 
has averaged over 150 per week.  34 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
IAN MASON
Group Chief Executive
Ian Mason, 51, joined the Group in February 
1995 as Director of Business Development. 
He was appointed to the Board of Directors 
in July 2000 as Chief Operating Ofﬁ cer and 
was appointed Group Chief Executive in July 
2001 . Previously he worked for The Boston 
Consulting Group. In November 2007 he 
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
of The Sage Group plc. 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Group Executive Committee 
and Member of the Treasury Committee
PETER JOHNSON
Chairman
Peter Johnson, 65, joined as Chairman in 
October 2010. He is also a Member of the 
Supervisory Board of Wienerberger AG. 
Previously, he was Chairman of DS Smith plc, 
a Non-Executive Director of SSL International 
plc, Chief Executive of George Wimpey plc 
and Chief Executive of The Rugby Group plc.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
from November 2012
Board of directors
SIMON BODDIE
Group Finance Director
Simon Boddie, 53, joined as Group Finance 
Director in September 2005. In September 
2012 he was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of PageGroup. Previously he worked 
for Diageo plc where he held a variety of 
senior ﬁ nance positions, latterly as Finance 
Director of Key Markets.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Treasury Committee and 
Member of the Group Executive Committee
RUPERT SOAMES
Non-Executive Director
Rupert Soames, 54, joined as a Non-
Executive Director in July 2007 . Rupert 
is Group Chief Executive of Aggreko plc. 
Previously he was Chief Executive of the 
Banking and Securities Division of Misys plc 
and a Non-Executive Director of Baggeridge 
Brick plc.
Committee membership
Senior Independent Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. Member 
of the Nomination and Audit Committees 35  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Corporate governance
JOHN PATTULLO
Non-Executive Director
John Pattullo, 61, joined as a Non-Executive 
Director in January 2013. He recently retired 
as Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer of CEVA Logistics 
and continues to serve on the CEVA Board. 
Previously he was Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 
of the Europe, Middle East and Africa division 
of Exel and when Exel was acquired by 
Deutsche Post/DHL he went on to run the 
combined Exel and DHL contract logistics 
business in EMEA. He spent most of his 
early career working in supply chain 
management roles with Procter & Gamble.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees
IAN HASLEGRAVE
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Ian Haslegrave, 44, joined the Company 
in September 2006 from Viacom Outdoor 
Limited where he was International 
Legal Director. Previously he worked at 
United Biscuits Limited and Freshﬁ elds 
Bruckhaus Deringer.
Committee membership
Member of the Treasury Committee
ADRIAN AUER
Non-Executive Director
Adrian Auer, 64, joined as a Non-Executive 
Director in July 2009. Adrian is Chairman 
of Shanks Group plc and a Non-Executive 
Director of AZ Electronic Materials S.A. 
He is also Chairman of Addaction, Britain’s 
largest specialist drug and alcohol treatment 
charity. Adrian has also held the position 
of Finance Director in a number of major 
companies and has extensive international 
business experience.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Nomination, 
and Remuneration Committees
PAUL HOLLINGWORTH
Non-Executive Director
Paul Hollingworth, 53, joined as a Non-
Executive Director in May 2008. Previously 
he was Group Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer of 
Thomas Cook Group plc and prior to that he 
was Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer of Mondi Group 
and held positions as Group Finance Director 
of BPB plc, De La Rue plc and Ransomes plc. 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees
KAREN GUERRA
Non-Executive Director
Karen Guerra, 57 , joined as a Non-Executive 
Director in January 2013. She is a Non-
Executive Director of Amcor Limited, 
Swedish Match AB and Davide Campari-
Milano S.p.A. Previously, she was a Non-
Executive Director at Inchcape plc, More 
Group plc and Samlerhuset Group BV. and 
held senior executive positions at Colgate-
Palmolive, including Managing Director 
and Chairman of both their UK and 
French businesses.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees 36 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corpora te governance
COMMITTED TO 
GOOD GO VERNANCE
ear Shareholder
Electrocomponents, as a UK listed company, is required to 
explain how we have applied the main principles set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and whether the 
relevant provisions have been complied with throughout the ﬁ nancial 
year. The following reports set out how we have applied the Code 
and conﬁ rm our compliance.
The Company and the Group are committed to high standards 
of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the 
Company’s shareholders.
We are mindful of the need to meet the ever-changing demands of 
the business environment, whilst at the same time ensuring that our 
various stakeholders – shareholders, employees, customers and the 
environment – are all given appropriate consideration. This has been 
a challenge that our Board continues to take very seriously.
One of the main priorities arising from previous Board evaluations has 
been to strengthen our Board and we were delighted to welcome two 
additional Non-Executive Directors to our Board, and its Committees, 
in January of this year. In making these appointments we have 
improved our diversity across a range of measures, including skills, 
experience and gender, helping to bring different perspectives to 
our decision making.
During the year we conducted a review of our effectiveness as a 
Board. There were a number of outputs from this review including 
improving the way we review ﬁ nancial performance, greater visibility 
of the progress of the implementation of our strategy and reviewing 
succession planning following changes to the Group’s new 
operating model.
The Company actively engages in two-way communication with its 
shareholders and during the year we held numerous face-to-face 
meetings, hosted site visits and invited them to presentations on 
both the Group’s ﬁ nancial results and elements of its strategy.
Executive remuneration has been a topic of considerable debate in 
the press and elsewhere again over the year and the Remuneration 
Committee’s report on pages 45 to 54 sets out in detail the 
Company’s approach to this important area.
Peter Johnson, Chairman
23 May 2013
D
Our governance framework
Shareholders
Board of directors
Remuneration Committee
 Nomination Committee
 Audit Committee
 Group Executive Committee
 “ Good corpora te 
governance 
ensures the 
company 
runs well ” Directors’ report: Corporate governance
37  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Directors consider that the 
Company complied throughout the accounting period with all relevant 
provisions set out in the Code with the exception of the following:
• Rupert Soames continued to be a member of the Audit Committee 
whilst also carrying out the role of Acting Company Chairman. 
The Board believed it preferable to have three directors it 
considered to be independent on the Audit Committee
• The Company Chairman did not meet with individual directors for 
the purposes of evaluating their performance and discussing their 
training and development needs. This will take place during the 
forthcoming year
Both situations occurred as a result of Peter Johnson temporarily 
stepping down from his role as Company Chairman.
The Board 
Composition 
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors 
and ﬁ ve independent Non-Executive Directors. In November 2012 the 
Company was pleased to announce that Peter Johnson was to return 
as Chairman, after temporarily stepping down, during which time 
Rupert Soames had assumed the role of Acting Chairman. Karen 
Guerra and John Pattullo were welcomed as independent Non-
Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2013. 
Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set 
out on pages 34 and 35, together with details of their membership 
of Board Committees. 
Role and effectiveness 
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term 
success of the Company. The Board has carefully considered the 
guidance criteria regarding the composition of the Board under the 
Code. In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the Non-
Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character, 
a wealth of experience and knowledge, the appropriate balance of 
skills, and assign sufﬁ cient time to enable them to effectively 
carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board and to the 
Committees on which they sit. They are sufﬁ ciently independent 
of management and are free from any other circumstances or 
relationships that could interfere with the exercise of their judgement. 
The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary 
meetings are held as and when necessary. 
The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together 
with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Principal activity 
Electrocomponents is the world’s leading high service distributor 
of electronics and maintenance products. With operations in 32 
countries, we offer more than 550,000 products through the internet, 
catalogues and at trade counters to over one million customers, 
shipping around 44,000 parcels a day. Our products, sourced from 
2,500 leading suppliers, include electronics, automation and control, 
test and measurement, electrical and support.
Signiﬁ cant events which occurred during the year are detailed in the 
Chairman’s report on pages 10 to 11 and the Group Chief Executive’s 
review on pages 12 to 15.
Business review 
The Business review on pages 18 to 33 is incorporated by reference 
into, and forms part of, the Directors’ report and includes the following: 
• Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 24 to 27; and
• Corporate responsibility on pages 28 to 33. 
Corporate governance
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Company has been subject 
to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
published in June 2010. The Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.
uk. There are ﬁ ve main principles of the Code: 
• Leadership
• Effectiveness
• Relations with shareholders
• Accountability
• Remuneration
This report explains how the principles were applied in the ﬁ rst three 
of these areas. Details of Directors’ accountability and remuneration 
can be found in the following sections of the Directors’ report:
• Audit Committee report on pages 42 to 44; and 
• Remuneration report on pages 45 to 54. 
“ we have strengthened our Board 
further by welcoming Karen guerra 
and john pattullo as non-executive 
directors, bringing with them 
a broad range of international 
business experience” 38 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit Committee 
Composition 
The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and 
is chaired by Paul Hollingworth. Under its terms of reference the 
Committee meets at least three times a year. The Company Chairman 
is regularly invited to attend Committee meetings. During the year 
under review the Committee met four times. The Company Secretary 
acts as secretary to the Committee.
Role 
The Committee monitors the integrity of ﬁ nancial reporting and 
audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and 
risk management system. Further details of the work of the Audit 
Committee in discharging its responsibilities are set out in the 
Audit Committee report on pages 42 to 44.
Remuneration Committee 
Composition 
The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and, with 
effect from November 2012, the Committee was chaired by Rupert 
Soames. Prior to November, the Committee was chaired by Adrian 
Auer on a temporary basis. Rupert Soames remained a member of 
the Committee. Under its terms of reference the Committee meets 
at least twice a year. The Company Chairman is regularly invited to 
attend Committee meetings. During the year under review the 
Committee met four times. The Company Secretary acts as 
secretary to the Committee.
Role 
It is responsible for all aspects of the remuneration of the Company 
Chairman and Executive Directors, as well as senior employees. 
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration policy 
and of the remuneration of each Director are set out in the 
Remuneration report on pages 45 to 54. 
Nomination Committee 
Composition 
The Committee consists of the Company Chairman and all the 
Non-Executive Directors. The Company Chairman chairs the Committee. 
With effect from November 2012 the Committee was chaired by Peter 
Johnson. Prior to November the Committee was chaired by Rupert 
Soames in his capacity as Acting Chairman of the Company. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
Role 
The Committee meets as required and considers matters relating to 
Board succession planning and makes recommendations to the Board 
where appropriate. During the period under review the Committee met 
ﬁ ve times. The Committee periodically assesses what new skills, 
knowledge and experience are required on the Board and, if necessary, 
the balance of independence. Where a new director is to be appointed, 
a candidate proﬁ le is recommended which is then used to brief 
recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake the 
selection process. Initial meetings are held generally by the Company 
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive with prospective candidates 
and a shortlist of individuals is then selected to meet with other 
Committee members. The Committee then meets and decides 
which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board. 
The Board has long-term succession plans in place for both the Board 
and the GEC. These plans are reviewed annually. Board composition is 
also discussed as part of the Board evaluation process.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval 
which includes responsibility for:
• The approval of the Group strategy and its budgetary and 
business plans
• The review and approval of major investment proposals and 
capital expenditure
• The approval of annual and half-year results, interim management 
statements and trading statements
• The approval of the Group’s dividend policy, the payment of interim 
dividends and the recommendation of ﬁ nal dividends 
• Ensuring and maintaining the Group’s systems of risk management, 
internal control and corporate governance
• Reviewing health and safety policy and its performance
• Discussing and agreeing strategic plans
• Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and 
reviewing forecasts
Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board to the 
Group Executive Committee (GEC). Information and agenda items are 
recommended to the Board by the GEC and by the Company Secretary 
after discussion with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive. 
Conﬂ icts of interest 
The Company’s Articles of Association give the Board the power 
to authorise situations that might give rise to Directors’ conﬂ icts 
of interest. The Board has in place a formal conﬂ icts of interest 
management procedure. The Board is responsible for considering 
whether authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to 
new situations as they arise. The Board reviews annually any conﬂ ict 
authorisations it has given and any limitations that have been applied. 
Committees 
The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain 
Directors and, in the case of the GEC and Treasury Committee, certain 
senior managers to which speciﬁ c responsibilities have been 
delegated and for which written terms of reference have been agreed. 
These terms of reference are available for inspection on the 
Company’s website. Board members receive minutes of meetings of 
all the Board’s Committees and can request presentations or reports 
on areas of interest.
The performance of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation process 
described below.
Group Executive Committee
Composition 
The Committee consists of the Executive Directors and the Group 
Chief Executive’s direct reports and is chaired by the Group Chief 
Executive. The Committee has met ten times during the year ended 
31 March 2013 and manages the day-to-day activities of the Group. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Role 
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the GEC; the 
development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration 
by the Board, the monitoring of the operating and ﬁ nancial results 
against plans and forecasts and the development of risk management 
and control procedures. 
Corpora te Governance continued Directors’ report: Corporate governance
39  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring 
its effectiveness across all aspects of its role, setting its agenda to 
ensure adequate discussion of all items of business and promoting 
openness and debate. The Chairman facilitates constructive relations 
between Non-Executive and Executive Directors and holds meetings 
with Non-Executive Directors without Executives being present. The 
Chairman also ensures all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information and is responsible for effective communication between 
the Board and its shareholders. 
The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on a 
day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the ﬁ nancial and 
operational performance of the Group and the determination of the 
Group strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge regarding 
strategy, performance of management and also satisfy themselves 
on the integrity of ﬁ nancial information and controls and systems of 
risk management. The Senior Independent Director is responsible for 
chairing the meeting of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of 
evaluating the Chairman’s performance. The Senior Independent 
Director also provides an alternative communication channel for 
shareholders, and other Directors if required, as well as providing 
a sounding board for the Chairman. 
Information and development 
Board meetings 
Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on the 
matters to be discussed at each meeting. During the year a system 
was introduced whereby Board and Committee papers are received 
electronically by Directors. This enables faster and more secure 
distribution of information and reduces the use of resources.
At each Board meeting the Group Chief Executive presents a 
comprehensive update on the business issues across the Group 
and the Group Finance Director presents a detailed analysis of the 
ﬁ nancial performance, as well as reports on investor relations and 
feedback from investors. GEC members and other senior managers 
also attend relevant parts of Board meetings in order to make 
presentations on their areas of responsibility, providing updates 
on developments and changes to the business. Between Board 
meetings, Directors also meet with GEC members and are provided 
with information in a timely manner on matters affecting the 
business as and when relevant.
The Board’s annual schedule of meetings normally includes a visit to 
one of our operating companies and this year the Board visited our 
Shanghai operation. This visit provided them with the opportunity to 
tour its warehouse, review operations and meet with management of 
the Chinese business and the wider Asia Paciﬁ c region. This gave the 
Board a better insight into the strategic issues within the Group’s Asia 
Paciﬁ c business.
Non-Executive Director appointment
As a result of last year’s Board evaluation the Committee continued 
its search for additional Non-Executive Directors, using the process 
outlined above. Upon recommendation from the Committee, the 
Board appointed Karen Guerra and John Pattullo with effect from
1 January 2013. Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive search 
agency, were appointed to assist with this process and they have 
no other connection with the Company. 
Diversity
The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises its 
adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering succession 
planning and recruitment at Board level, and undertakes that any 
recruitment consultants or other advisers it appoints to help with 
these tasks are made aware of the Group Diversity Policy. The 
Committee states that it is in the best interests of the Company 
to ensure balance and diversity at Board level, and will encourage 
recruitment consultants to widen search parameters so that a 
diverse range of candidates may be considered, where appropriate. 
Treasury Committee 
Composition 
The Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant Group Treasurer, 
the Group Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and the Group 
Tax Manager. The Committee meets quarterly. The Assistant Group 
Treasurer acts as secretary to the Committee.
Role 
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Treasury 
Committee: day-to-day ﬁ nancing and administrative matters and 
setting and monitoring detailed treasury policy for the Group within 
an overall policy framework established by the Board.
Meeting attendance
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and of 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year 
and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, 
demonstrating commitment to their role as Directors of the Company. 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different 
individuals. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established; their 
responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by 
the Board. 
Board (scheduled) Audit Committee
Remuneration 
Committee Nomination Committee
Number of meetings held during the year 7 4 4 6
P Johnson 6 (7) – − 6 (6)
I Mason 7 (7) − − −
S Boddie 7 (7) − − −
A Auer 7 (7) 3 (4) 3 (4) 6 (6)
K Guerra
a
2 (2) 1 (1) 2 (2) 1 (1)
P Hollingworth 7 (7) 4 (4) 4 (4) 6 (6)
J Pattullo
a
2 (2) 1 (1) 2 (2) 1 (1)
R Soames
b
7 (7) 4 (4) 4 (4) 5 (6)
(The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets)
a Karen Guerra and John Pattullo were appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2013 
b Rupert Soames was not present at a meeting of the Nomination Committee as he was the subject of discussion. 40 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corpora te Governance continued
The results of this year’s evaluation were constructive and positive. 
The Board was particularly pleased with the recruitment of two 
new Non-Executive Directors, bringing additional experience and 
knowledge to the Board in two key areas, marketing and logistics. 
The following themes were noted for further action:
• Strategy: more visibility of progress against targets by tracking 
agreed Key Performance Indicators at Board meetings 
• Financial performance: more time to be spent on ﬁ nancial 
performance year to date, with increased focus on 
divisional performance
• Succession planning: following changes to the Group’s operating 
model, existing succession plans should be reviewed
Director election/re-election 
The Company’s Articles of Association state that each Director must 
retire from ofﬁ ce every three years. The Code goes beyond this, 
requiring all Directors to retire and stand for re-election at each Annual 
General Meeting. The Company complies with the Code requirement 
in this respect. 
Rupert Soames’ second term of appointment as a Non-Executive 
Director is due to expire in July 2013. The Nomination Committee, 
following a review of his contribution to the Board, recommends that 
his appointment should be extended for a further three-year term. 
This recommendation was agreed by the Board.
Karen Guerra and John Pattullo were appointed as Non-Executive 
Directors on 1 January 2013. In accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association they will be standing for formal election at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2013.
The Board considers that the performance of all the Directors 
continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their role. 
The Board therefore recommends their election or re-election, 
as appropriate. 
Internal control and risk management
The Group has an established and ongoing process of risk 
management and internal control which has continued throughout the 
year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report 
and Accounts. The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control, which has been designed and 
implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and 
the risks to which it is exposed. 
In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the 
recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, 
the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control and risk management and reported 
the results to the Board. These reviews covered all material controls, 
including ﬁ nancial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management systems. Further details of this process are given in the 
Audit Committee report on pages 42 to 44 and the Business review 
on pages 24 to 27 .
The Group’s internal control system can provide reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Induction and training 
A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director. 
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new 
Directors to the Group’s business, its operations and its governance 
arrangements. Inductions for Karen Guerra and John Pattullo were 
carried out during the year and included meetings with senior 
management, sales visits to customers, presentations of key business 
areas, tours of our UK warehouses, as well as receiving technical 
training on legal and governance issues and relevant documentation. 
Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, 
knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external 
seminars and brieﬁ ngs, through participation at meetings and through 
visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by 
receiving presentations from senior management. Board Committees 
and Directors are given access to independent professional advice at 
the Group’s expense if they deem it necessary in order for them to 
carry out their responsibilities. This is in addition to the access that 
every Director has to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and 
advising the Board, through the Chairman, on new legislation and 
corporate governance matters. 
Board evaluation 
The Board recognises the beneﬁ t of annual evaluation, enabling it to 
improve its effectiveness and focus and that of its Committees and 
Directors. In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the 
Company will be sourcing a provider to carry out an external 
evaluation during the forthcoming ﬁ nancial year. 
The main purpose of the Board is to ensure the Group develops a 
clear and stretching strategy that is fully implemented and to support 
the Company in fulﬁ lling its potential.
The actions resulting from last year’s evaluation have been 
followed up.
This year’s questionnaires were sent to Board members covering the 
Board, and its Directors and Committees. The questionnaire included 
issues such as: 
• Balance of skills
• Experience
• Effectiveness of meetings
• How well strategy is tested and developed
• Succession planning
• Diversity
• Risk management controls 
The responses to the questionnaires were collated independently 
by the Company Secretary who prepared reports for the Company 
Chairman and the Chairman of each Committee. These reports were 
discussed at the relevant Committee meetings and the results were 
discussed by the Board at its meeting in January 2013.  Directors’ report: Corporate governance
41  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Relations with shareholders 
The Company encourages two-way communication with both 
institutional and private investors. The Annual Report and Accounts is 
sent to all shareholders who wish to receive a copy. It is also available 
on the Company’s website www.electrocomponents.com, which 
additionally contains up-to-date information on the Group’s activities 
and published ﬁ nancial results and presentations. During the year the 
Company also launched its investor relations app offering instant 
online and ofﬂ ine access, free of charge, to the Company’s latest 
ﬁ nancial and corporate information on the Apple iPad and iPhone. 
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional 
shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Group’s performance, 
which include meetings following the announcements of the annual 
and interim results. At these meetings the Executive Directors meet 
with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and 
governance, and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are 
available for discussions with shareholders if required. During the year 
more than 50 face to face meetings and telephone conference calls 
have been held with institutional shareholders in the United Kingdom, 
United States and Europe, covering over 75% of the shareholder 
base. The Company has hosted visits to its operating facilities for 
institutional shareholders during the year and from time to time it 
hosts brieﬁ ngs for analysts and investors on speciﬁ c topics related to 
business strategy and operations. In February 2013 the GEC member 
responsible for the newly established Global Offer function held one 
such brieﬁ ng for over 20 analysts and institutional shareholders.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 Peter Johnson (as Chairman) 
and Rupert Soames (as Acting Chairman) each met with one major 
shareholder. The Senior Independent Director was also available for 
meetings with major shareholders. 
The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board on investor 
relations, including reports compiled by the Company’s brokers and 
containing feedback from institutional shareholders, ensuring that the 
views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board through 
these reports.
The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is maintained 
with shareholders and the Annual General Meeting is used as an 
additional opportunity for the Chairman and other Board members to 
meet with shareholders and investors and give them the opportunity 
to ask questions. Final voting results are published through a 
Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website 
following the meeting.
 
Going concern
In its review of the ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended 31 March 
2013, the Audit Committee also considered analysis to support the 
going concern judgement. 
The Group’s activities, strategy and performance are explained in the 
Chairman’s report on pages 10 and 11, the Group Chief Executive’s 
review on pages 12 to 15 and the Business review on pages 18 to 33.
Further details on the ﬁ nancial performance, ﬁ nancial position and 
cash ﬂ ows of the Group are provided in the Business review on 
pages 18 to 33.
Note 20 on pages 84 to 91 of the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 
provides details of the Group’s debt maturity proﬁ le, capital 
management policy, hedging activities and ﬁ nancial instruments 
and its exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks.
The Group is cash generative, as evidenced in its cash ﬂ ow 
performance with free cash ﬂ ow representing 78% of proﬁ t after tax 
for the year ended 31 March 2013. Management reviews its actual 
and forecast cash ﬂ ows each month to ensure that sufﬁ cient facilities 
are in place to meet the Group’s requirements.
At 31 March 2013, the Group’s net debt was £159.7m with total 
committed debt and loan facilities of £305.3m and undrawn 
committed facilities of £149.2m.
The Group’s main sources of ﬁ nance are a syndicated multicurrency 
facility from seven banks for US$75m, £120m and €50m maturing in 
November 2015 and US$150m of Private Placement notes, split 
US$65m maturing June 2015 and US$85m maturing June 2017 . 
Compliance with the Group’s bank covenants is monitored monthly 
and sensitivity analyses are periodically applied to forecasts to assess 
their impact on covenants and net debt. At 31 March 2013 there was 
signiﬁ cant headroom between the Group’s ﬁ nancial position and its 
banking covenants; it is expected that such covenants will continue 
to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
The Group has sufﬁ cient ﬁ nancial resources, a large and geographically 
spread customer base and strong supplier relationships. Therefore, the 
Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the 
Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Group’s accounts. The Directors 
conﬁ rm that this statement has been prepared in accordance with 
Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. 42 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit committee report
Membership
The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board is satisﬁ ed that the Chairman of the Committee has the 
current and relevant ﬁ nancial and accounting experience required by 
the provisions of the Code, having previously held chief ﬁ nancial ofﬁ cer 
positions in public companies for most of his career, including most 
recently the position of Group Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer at Thomas Cook 
Group plc up to June 2012. The other members of the Committee have 
a wide range of business experience and expertise, as evidenced in 
their biographies on pages 34 and 35. The Board is also satisﬁ ed that 
the Committee can effectively fulﬁ l its responsibilities. 
Meetings and attendance
The Committee met four times during the year ended 31 March 2013. 
Meetings are scheduled in accordance with the ﬁ nancial and reporting 
cycles of the Company. Members and their attendance at meetings 
during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance section on 
pages 36 to 41 . 
In addition to the members of the Committee, it was normal for 
others to receive the Committee papers and attend meetings, when 
required. Attendance was at the invitation of the Committee Chairman 
only and does not restrict the Committee’s independent decision 
making. Details of the regular attendees are shown opposite.
s Chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to 
present our report detailing the role and responsibilities 
of the Committee and its activities during the year. 
The Board’s report on the systems of internal control and their 
effectiveness, together with the going concern statement, can 
be found in the Corporate Governance section on pages 36 to 41 .
A
Committee members:
Paul Hollingworth (Chairman)
Adrian Auer
Karen Guerra (following her appointment in January 2013)
John Pattullo (following his appointment in January 2013)
Rupert Soames
Other regular attendees: 
Company Chairman
Group Chief Executive
Group Finance Director
Group Company Secretary
Group Financial Controller
Head of Internal Audit
Group Risk Manager
Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG
Role
The Committee’s main responsibilities include the following:
• Assisting the Board in its duties regarding the integrity of the 
ﬁ nancial and corporate reporting and auditing processes
• The maintenance of a sound internal control and risk 
management system
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the 
Group’s system of internal control, including ﬁ nancial reporting 
and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing 
the Group
• Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between 
Electrocomponents and its external auditors
• Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process, 
including the auditors’ appointment, fees and independence
• Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditors
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent 
access to the Internal Audit team and to the external auditors. The 
Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to 
the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its 
authority and responsibilities and these are reviewed periodically 
by the Committee. The Committee’s current terms of reference 
are available for inspection on the Company’s website.
The Board is kept fully informed of the Committee’s work and the 
minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members. Directors’ report: Corporate governance
43  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, 
monthly and annual reporting cycles. Monthly management accounts 
are prepared by all operating companies and major cost functions. 
These contain actual ﬁ nancial performance measures for both the 
most recent month and year to date which are compared with 
forecasts and prior years. In addition forecasts, which are usually 
updated at least four times a year, are compared against the previous 
forecast, the budget and prior year actual ﬁ gures. Variances are 
reviewed by the GEC and by the Board. Speciﬁ c reporting systems 
cover treasury operations, major investment projects and legal and 
insurance activities, which are reviewed by the Board and its 
Committees on a regular basis. 
Internal audit 
The Group has a team of internal auditors which has an audit 
programme covering scope and resources of the function, 
annually agreed and approved by the Committee.
The Committee also reviews:
• The level and skills of resources allocated to the internal audit 
function to conduct this programme of work
• The summary of the results of each audit and the resolution of 
any control issues identiﬁ ed
• The effectiveness of the internal audit function
The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the Chairman 
of the Committee, with access to the Company Chairman and 
other members of the Committee. 
On an annual basis the Committee as a whole discusses with the 
Head of Internal Audit the control environment of the Group without 
the presence of executive management.
External auditors 
The Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity of 
the Company’s auditors, KPMG, in their reporting to shareholders. To 
ensure full and open communication, the Group Audit Engagement 
Director from KPMG was present at all of the Committee meetings. 
The performance and effectiveness of the auditors is reviewed 
annually by the Committee, and covers qualiﬁ cation, expertise, 
resources and re-appointment as well as reassurance that there are 
no issues which could adversely affect the auditors’ independence 
and objectivity taking into account the relevant standards. As part 
of risk evaluation planning the Committee considers the risk of 
its current auditor withdrawing from the market. 
Views of management are also taken into account and this is reported 
to senior members of KPMG. This forms part of KPMG’s own system 
of quality control. The Committee also met with KPMG, without 
management being present, to review the adequacy of controls and 
any signiﬁ cant area where management judgement has been applied.
The auditors’ engagement letter and the scope of the year’s annual 
audit cycle is discussed in advance by the Committee, ensuring that 
any changes in circumstances arising since the previous year are 
taken into account. Following discussions between the operating 
companies and the local KPMG ofﬁ ces and a review by Group 
management, audit and non-audit fees are reviewed by the 
Committee and are then recommended to the Board for approval. 
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 3 on page 71 .
Activities during the year
Financial reporting
In its ﬁ nancial reporting to shareholders and other key interested 
parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects, providing necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the Company’s business model, 
strategy and performance. The Committee reviews and advises the 
Board on the Group’s annual and half-yearly ﬁ nancial reports, interim 
management statements and other periodic statements. The 
Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and 
practices adopted by the Group and any signiﬁ cant areas of judgement 
that may materially impact reported results. In its review of the 
ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013, the Committee 
also considered analysis to support the going concern judgement. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board’s responsibilities for internal control are set out in the 
Corporate Governance section on pages 36 to 41 .
The Committee receives reports on the performance of the system 
of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing material risks 
and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
The Committee annually reviews the Group’s risk management process 
with the outcome of the review being reported to the Board. This, 
together with the provision of regular updates to the Board on material 
risk issues, allows the Board to make the assessment on the systems 
of internal control for the purposes of making its public statement. 
Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been 
identiﬁ ed through the monitoring processes outlined above, plans 
for strengthening them are put in place and action plans regularly 
monitored until complete. During the period under review there 
were no control failings or weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen 
material losses.
Further information regarding risks to the business is given on pages 
24 to 27 of the Business review.
Internal ﬁ nancial controls
Internal ﬁ nancial controls are the systems employed by the Group 
to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities for ﬁ nancial 
matters. Those responsibilities are noted on page 57 .
The main ﬁ nancial control elements are described below.
Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and the 
Board Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility 
through the Board Committees to management in all locations. 
Operating company controls are detailed in Group Finance and 
Group Treasury manuals that specify the controls necessary in 
identiﬁ ed areas of ﬁ nancial risk. 44 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit committee report continued
The Group has a policy on employment of former employees of 
the external auditors. This requires that any such employment is 
considered on a case by case basis and takes into account the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards on such appointments. 
Any appointment requires approval by a combination of the Group 
Finance Director, Audit Committee and Board, depending on the 
seniority of the appointment.
The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, and beyond this, there 
are controls in place to ensure that additional work performed by the 
auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
Fraud
The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection 
of fraud in the Group. Suspected cases of fraud must be reported 
to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by 
operational management or Internal Audit, as appropriate. The 
outcome of any investigation is reported to the Company Secretary. 
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of 
any investigation is kept, which is circulated to the Committee on 
a regular basis.
Anti-bribery
An anti-bribery policy has been developed and implemented following 
the Bribery Act coming into force. Its introduction was supported by a 
training programme and an online training module. A gift register has 
been introduced to ensure transparency. 
Whistleblowing
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Committee is 
responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in 
conﬁ dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of 
ﬁ nancial reporting or other matters and ensuring that any matters are 
investigated and escalated as appropriate. This is run by an external 
third party. Whistleblowing is referred to as ‘Speak Up’ internally and 
is available to all employees in the Group. The Committee receives 
aggregated reports on matters raised through these services and 
monitors their use throughout the Group.
By order of the Board
Paul Hollingworth, Chairman of the Audit Committee
23 May 2013
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG, the 
Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services 
does not impair KPMG’s independence or objectivity. In determining 
the policy, the Committee has taken into account possible threats to 
auditor independence and objectivity. The policy is part of the Group 
Finance Manual. 
The policy is as follows:
• When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake 
non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times give 
consideration to the provisions of the Financial Reporting Council 
Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of 
independence and objectivity
• The external auditors must certify to the Company that they are 
acting independently
• In providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not: 
 – audit their own work
 – make management decisions for the Company
 – create a mutuality of interest
 –ﬁ nd themselves in the role of advocate for the Company
• Before commissioning non-audit services, the Committee or the 
Group Finance Director as appropriate must ensure that the external 
auditors are satisﬁ ed that there is no issue as regards independence 
and objectivity
• The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the 
external auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a 
speciﬁ c project with a cost that is not expected to exceed £50,000. 
This work has to be reported to the Committee at its next meeting. 
If the cost is expected to exceed £50,000, the agreement of the 
Committee is required before the work is commissioned. In either 
case, other potential providers must be adequately considered
• The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the external 
auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere in 
the Group in excess of £10,000
It is the Committee’s current intention to carry out an external audit 
tender process, in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Guidance on Audit Committees and the new Code, both of which 
were published in September 2012. The timing is likely to coincide 
with the cycle for the rotation of the current Group Audit Engagement 
Director. There are currently no contractual obligations that will restrict 
the Committee’s choice of external auditors.
The Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards require rotation of 
the Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG. This took place in 
July 2009 when a new Director was appointed, replacing the previous 
Director who had held the post for ﬁ ve years. A formal statement of 
independence from the external auditors is received each year. The 
Group will not engage the auditors to undertake any work that could 
threaten their independence. Directors’ report: Corporate governance
45  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Remunera tion Report
his report sets out the Company’s remuneration 
policy and provides details of the remuneration of the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors for services 
provided during the year ended 31 March 2013. The report has 
been prepared in accordance with the relevant legal and 
accounting regulations, and meets the requirements of the UK 
Listing Authority Listing Rules. During the year the Committee 
has complied with the principles and provisions of the relevant 
part of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). 
The Company’s remuneration policy has remained unchanged 
during the year under review, and our approach to 
implementation has also remained consistent with previous 
years. The policy is not expected to change for the forthcoming 
year in respect of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is aware of the ongoing public debate on 
executive remuneration in the UK and is sensitive to the 
concerns of shareholders and other stakeholders on this 
subject. During the year, the Committee has kept abreast of 
the developments in regulatory thinking on shareholder voting 
rights and the reporting of Directors’ remuneration. Although 
the proposed new reporting requirements are not yet ﬁ nalised, 
we have opted to incorporate a number of the proposed 
changes in this year’s report to enhance transparency. This 
report is therefore divided into two distinct sections: a ‘Policy 
Report’ and an ‘Implementation Report’. The Policy Report 
outlines Electrocomponents’ remuneration policy for the year 
ended 31 March 2013, and the forthcoming ﬁ nancial year, 
setting out the role of each element of pay, how the structure 
of the package helps to reinforce the achievement of our 
strategy, and details of reward opportunities available to the 
Company’s Executive Directors. The Implementation Report 
details how the policy was implemented in the year ended 
31 March 2013, and includes a table for the new single ﬁ gure of 
total remuneration for both Executive Directors. We hope these 
changes help make the Remuneration report clearer and easier 
to understand.
Rupert Soames, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 May 2013
T
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES 
AND MEMBERSHIP 
The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the Board. Its 
responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference which can be 
found on the Company’s website at www.electrocomponents.com. 
The task of the Committee is to consider the remuneration packages 
needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and 
other senior employees and to ensure that they are compensated 
appropriately for their contributions to the Group’s performance. 
The Committee also considers the remuneration of the Company 
Chairman. The Board as a whole considers and determines the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. No individual was 
present while decisions were made regarding their own remuneration. 
The Committee membership during the year has changed following 
Peter Johnson’s resumption of his role as Company Chairman 
in November 2012. This enabled Rupert Soames, who had been 
Acting Company Chairman, to resume his role as Chairman of
the Committee. Its membership during the year under review 
was as follows:
Rupert Soames (Chairman from November 2012)
Adrian Auer (Chairman until November 2012)
Karen Guerra (following her appointment in January 2013)
Paul Hollingworth 
John Pattullo (following his appointment in January 2013)
The Company Chairman was invited to attend Committee meetings, 
and he and the Group Chief Executive are consulted on appropriate 
matters, other than their own remuneration.
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance by 
individual Committee members at meetings is detailed in the 
Corporate Governance report on page 39.
POLICY REPORT
The Committee keeps the Company’s senior executive remuneration 
policy under regular review. The current reward strategy was put in 
place by the Committee with effect from 1 April 2010. In formulating 
this policy, the Committee took advice from Kepler Associates. 
The Committee considers that the current reward strategy remains 
appropriate for the ﬁ nancial year ending 31 March 2014. The principal 
objective of the reward strategy is to enable the Company to attract, 
motivate and retain the people it needs to maximise the value of 
the business. In so doing the Committee will be mindful of:
• Aligning the interests of executives and shareholders
• Achieving an appropriate balance between ﬁ xed and performance-
related pay
• Achieving an appropriate balance between the rewards available 
for meeting short- and long-term objectives
• Supporting the Group’s behaviours and culture
• Complying with corporate governance best practice guidelines
• Expressing the reward strategy in a way that is understandable, 
clear and meaningful
• That there should generally be congruence between the reward 
strategy for the Executive Directors and the GEC members
In determining Executive Directors’ remuneration, the Committee 
also considers the pay review levels of employees around the Group. 46 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Committee is satisﬁ ed that its approach to setting the structure 
of remuneration packages for senior executives underpins the 
effective and proper management of risk by rewarding executives 
fairly for sustainable proﬁ t growth and long-term returns to 
shareholders, and delivering a signiﬁ cant proportion of senior 
executive remuneration in the form of Company shares. 
In positioning pay, the Committee’s policy states that:
• The target/fair value of total remuneration is to be set at broadly 
median market levels
• Fixed pay (basic salary, pension, value of other beneﬁ ts) positioning 
is to be at broadly median market levels
• The fair value of variable pay as a percentage of salary should be 
positioned at broadly median market levels
The Committee recognises that, as a matter of practicality, it may 
on occasion have to step outside these guidelines in order to attract, 
motivate and retain particular individuals.
In considering market levels against which elements of remuneration 
are to be benchmarked, the Committee will seek its advisers’ views 
on the population of benchmark companies. In devising the 
benchmark, the Committee has instructed advisers that: 
• Companies should be UK based FTSE 250 companies with 
a majority of their revenues outside the UK
• Sectors should include support services, distribution and 
manufacturing and other similar classiﬁ cations, but they should 
not include ﬁ nancial services
• The benchmark weighting criteria should be, in descending order of 
weight: revenue, number of employees and market capitalisation
• The size of the benchmark population should be large enough to 
have statistical integrity, but not so large as to become a general 
average of FTSE 250 businesses
The benchmark population is reviewed annually. 
The following should be benchmarked:
• Fixed pay (basic salary, pension, value of other beneﬁ ts)
• Variable pay (annual bonus, LTIP)
• Total remuneration (ﬁ xed pay and fair value of variable pay)
Whilst ultimately total remuneration is the key benchmark, ﬁ xed 
and variable pay cannot be too far away from the adopted policy 
if total remuneration is to be around benchmark levels.
Pay policy table
This section of our report describes the key components of the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors who were 
in place for the year ended 31 March 2013. These will remain 
unchanged for the year ending 31 March 2014.
Remunera tion Report continued
Component Objective
Base salary and beneﬁ ts (Fixed)
Base salary To provide broadly market median levels of 
ﬁ xed pay.
Pension To provide an appropriate level of retirement beneﬁ t. 
Existing Directors participated in the Deﬁ ned Beneﬁ t 
section of the Company Pension Scheme but chose 
to opt out of the Scheme and receive cash in lieu 
of pension. 
Any new Executive Directors who are not already 
in the Deﬁ ned Beneﬁ t section of the Scheme would 
not participate in this section as it is now closed 
to new entrants.
Beneﬁ ts Provision of beneﬁ ts in line with the market.
Annual incentives (Variable)
Annual Bonus 
Plan
To focus Executive Directors on achieving 
demanding annual targets relating to 
Company performance.
Longer-term incentives
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
To incentivise Executive Directors and senior 
managers to deliver long-term performance by 
aligning their performance with shareholders’ 
interests and reﬂ ect best practice. Directors’ report: Corporate governance
47  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operation Opportunity
Performance measures for 
year to 31 March 2013
Changes for year 
to 31 March 2014
Generally reviewed each year, with increases effective 
1 June with reference to salary levels at other FTSE 
250 companies of broadly similar size, sector and 
international scope to Electrocomponents.
The Committee also considers the salary increases 
applying across the rest of the UK business when 
determining increases.
Base salary increases 
are applied in line with 
the outcome of the 
annual review.
n/a No changes to 
policy for 2013.
Salary increases 
are set out on 
page 49.
Where Executive Directors have opted out of the 
Company Pension Scheme, a single cash supplement 
will be paid that is no greater than the value of 
pension beneﬁ ts previously provided.
See page 52 for further 
information in respect 
of current Directors.
n/a None
Executive Directors are provided with a company 
mobile phone, a company car (or a cash allowance 
in lieu thereof) and medical insurance.
See page 52 for further 
information in respect 
of current Directors.
n/a None
Performance targets are set at the start of the year 
and aligned with the annual budget agreed by the 
Board. It therefore follows that annual performance 
targets for bonuses may, like annual budgets, be 
lower in some years than in previous years, if market 
conditions mean that ﬁ nancial performance is 
expected to deteriorate and the resources available 
to management need to be reduced.
At the end of the year, the Remuneration Committee 
determines the extent to which these targets have 
been achieved.
One third of total bonus payments are converted into 
Electrocomponents shares under the Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan. These shares vest after two years, 
subject normally to continued employment.
The Committee has determined that unvested 
Deferred Share Bonus Awards should be available for 
clawback in instances of misconduct or misstatement.
Maximum opportunity:
150% of base salary.
Target opportunity:
75% of base salary.
Sales growth
Proﬁ t before tax and reorganisation costs 
(PBTR)
Cash ﬂ ow
No further performance condition 
for vesting of Deferred Share Bonus 
Plan shares.
Further details are given on page 49.
None
A conditional award of shares (an Award) is made 
following the announcement of the Company’s 
ﬁ nal results. 
The Award is subject both to a performance condition 
and, normally, on continued employment with the Group 
until the determination of the performance condition.
For the Award to vest, the Committee must 
additionally be satisﬁ ed that there has been a 
sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying 
ﬁ nancial performance.
The maximum value of 
Awards permissible 
under the LTIP is 150% 
of basic salary, although 
in normal circumstances 
the Committee would 
grant awards with a 
value below this level. 
Such grants have 
typically been around 
100% of basic salary 
for the Group Chief 
Executive, and 75% 
for the Group Finance 
Director.
A cash payment, 
equivalent to the 
dividends that would 
have accrued on the 
number of shares that 
vest, will be made to 
participants on vesting.
Vesting of one half of the Awards made 
to Executive Directors is dependent upon 
Electrocomponents’ three-year total 
shareholder return (TSR) percentage 
out-performance of a benchmark. Vesting 
of the other half of the Award is 
conditional on growth in the Company’s 
earnings per share (EPS).
The Committee selected TSR and EPS 
as performance measures because it 
felt this would provide a good balance 
between external and internal measures 
of performance, as well as absolute 
and relative performance. TSR aligns 
performance with shareholders’ 
interests. EPS provides a measure of 
the proﬁ tability of the Company, 
reﬂ ecting more directly management 
performance, and is a measure used by 
investors in deciding whether to invest 
in the Company.
Further details are given on page 50.
 None 48 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Executive shareholding guidelines
Executive shareholding guidelines are in place which require 
Executive Directors to retain at least 50% of any share awards that 
vest (net of tax) in order to help build up their personal holdings of 
Electrocomponents plc shares to a value of 200% of salary for the 
Group Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Group Finance 
Director. Details of Executive Directors’ shareholdings are given 
on page 54.
Service contracts
Executive Directors have service agreements that are on a 12-month 
rolling basis. These agreements provide for 12 months’ notice by the 
Company and by the Executive Directors. The Company entered into 
an updated service agreement with Ian Mason on 1 March 2001 . This 
agreement replaced all prior arrangements. The Company entered into 
a service agreement with Simon Boddie on 25 May 2005.
Termination
Termination payments are limited to the Directors’ normal 
compensation, including basic salary, annual incentives and beneﬁ ts 
for the unexpired portion of the notice period subject to performance 
and Remuneration Committee discretion. The Committee will aim to 
minimise the level of payments to that Director, having regard to all 
circumstances, including the Company’s contractual obligations to the 
Director, the reason for the departure, and the Company’s policy to 
apply mitigation in the case of severance. 
External appointments 
Executive Directors are permitted to take up one non-executive 
position on the boards of other companies, subject to the prior 
approval of the Board. The Executive Director may retain any fees 
payable in relation to such appointment. During the ﬁ nancial year, 
Ian Mason was a Non-Executive Director of Sage Group plc. The fee 
payable is £60,000 per annum. In September 2012 Simon Boddie 
became a Non-Executive Director of PageGroup. The fee payable 
is £48,000 per annum. Both will retain the fees paid in relation to 
these appointments.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration comprises an annual fee for the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company. An additional fee is paid to 
the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Neither 
the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors participate in the 
Company’s incentive or bonus schemes, nor do they accrue any 
pension entitlement.
Letters of appointment are provided to the Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors providing for an initial three-year term. The 
Chairman’s letter of appointment provides for a six-month notice 
period and the Non-Executive Directors a three-month notice period. 
Potential opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy which 
will apply in the forthcoming ﬁ nancial year, applied to the base salary 
in force at 1 April 2013. For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated 
are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2013/14. 
It should be noted that any awards granted under the Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan do not normally vest until the second anniversary of the 
date of grant, and LTIP awards do not normally vest until the third 
anniversary of the date of grant. This illustration is intended to provide 
further information to shareholders on the relationship between 
executive pay and performance. Please note, however, that actual pay 
delivered will be further inﬂ uenced by changes in factors such as the 
Company’s share price and the value of dividends paid. The following 
assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts:
0
£000s
500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500
Group CHIEF EXECUTIVE
25% 7% 25% 12%
15%
23%
24% 12%
31%
49%
77%
Stretch
On-Plan
Below Threshold
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500
£000s
Group Finance director
26% 11% 26% 13%
20%
30%
23% 11%
24%
46%
70%
Stretch
On-Plan
Below Threshold
Scenario Annual cash bonus Deferred Share Bonus Plan LTIP Fixed pay
Below Threshold No annual cash 
bonus payable
None Threshold not achieved 
(0% vesting)
Latest disclosed salary, 
pension and beneﬁ ts
On Plan On target annual 
cash bonus
50% of the annual 
cash bonus payable
TSR and EPS growth at 
threshold (0% vesting)
Latest disclosed salary, 
pension and beneﬁ ts
Stretch Maximum annual 
cash bonus
50% of the annual 
cash bonus payable
Performance warrants full 
vesting (100% of award)
Latest disclosed salary, 
pension and beneﬁ ts
Fixed:  
Salary  
 
Pension and beneﬁ ts 
Variable:  
Annual cash bonus  
 
Deferred bonus shares  
 
LTIP
Remunera tion Report continued
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward 
opportunity for Executive Directors, and the potential mix between 
the different elements of remuneration under three different 
performance scenarios: ‘Below Threshold’, ‘On-Plan’ and ‘Stretch’. Directors’ report: Corporate governance
49  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Pensions
The current Executive Directors are able to participate in the deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ ts section of the Electrocomponents Group Pension Scheme 
(the Scheme). However, if their pension beneﬁ ts are greater than or 
equal to the lifetime allowance, they can choose to opt out of the 
pension scheme and receive cash in lieu of pension.
As a result of the reduction in the lifetime allowance to £1 .5 million 
with effect from 6 April 2012, both current Executive Directors opted 
out of the Scheme with effect from 5 April 2012. 
Following a review of pension beneﬁ ts, the Committee agreed that 
both Executive Directors would receive a single cash supplement in 
lieu of pension beneﬁ ts such that the total cash supplement was no 
greater than the cost of pension beneﬁ ts previously provided. The 
new single cash supplement rate was deemed to apply with effect 
from 6 April 2012 and replaced all historic cash supplements and 
pension beneﬁ ts. This single cash supplement will be paid until the 
earlier of (i) the date employment with the Company terminates and 
(ii) the date the Executive Director reaches age 60 (normal retirement 
age). The cash supplement rate will be ﬁ xed as follows: 
Ian Mason 30% of Basic Salary
Simon Boddie 43.5% of Basic Salary
Both Executive Directors had a historic pension beneﬁ t capped at two 
thirds of salary at 60. Ian Mason’s cash supplement rate reﬂ ects the 
limitation imposed by the two-thirds salary cap due to his length of 
employment with the Company. This is not the case for Simon 
Boddie, hence the difference between the cash supplement rates.
Details of the cash supplements paid for the year under review are 
given in the remuneration table on page 52.
2013 Annual Bonus Plan award
In the year under review the annual bonus for Executive Directors was 
determined by performance against targets for three ﬁ nancial factors, 
being: Group sales growth, proﬁ t before tax and reorganisation costs 
(PBTR) and cash ﬂ ow. The respective weighting of each factor for 
the annual bonus calculation in the year ended 31 March 2013 was 
determined by the Committee as 40:40:20. The ﬁ nancial targets and 
relative weightings are reviewed by the Committee on an annual 
basis. The Committee has decided the weightings should remain 
the same for the forthcoming year.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, sales and PBTR have fallen short 
of both internal and external expectations at the time budgets and 
bonus targets were set. Cash ﬂ ow, however, has performed slightly 
better. As a consequence of the results actually achieved, the 
Executive Directors have met the minimum performance targets 
for cash ﬂ ow, but not for sales or PBTR. They have therefore been 
awarded a cash bonus of 3.7% of their base salary. This has been 
calculated as follows:
Performance measure Weighting
Percentage of 
target achieved
Percentage of 
salary earned as 
cash bonus
Group sales growth 40% 9.6% 0%
Group PBTR 40% 81 .4% 0%
Group cash ﬂ ow 20% 91 .6% 3.7%
T otal cash bonus 3.7%
Full details of cash bonuses payable are given in the remuneration 
table on page 52.
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT: REMUNERATION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013
Main activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2012/13
The main activities carried out by the Committee during the year 
under review were:
•  Review and approval of Remuneration report for 2012
• Review of Executive Director pension policy
• Vesting of the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
• Review of reward policy for senior managers below Executive 
Director level
• Remuneration Committee annual evaluation
• Annual bonus performance and payments for the year under review
• Annual bonus structure and performance targets for the 
forthcoming ﬁ nancial year
• Review of structure and performance targets of the LTIP
• Review of this report for the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 March 2013
Independent advisers
During the year under review, the Committee has taken advice from 
the following:
• Kepler Associates, who provided advice and data in respect of 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors, advice regarding the 
setting of performance targets for the LTIP , and the data required 
for the measurement of those performance targets; and the reward 
framework for senior executives, below Board level. Kepler 
Associates has advised the Committee since 2001 and, following 
a tender process, were re-appointed in 2005. The Committee 
reviewed the cost and effectiveness of Kepler during the year and 
agreed to continue with them as their remuneration consultants. 
Kepler provide no other services to the Company or its Directors. 
Kepler Associates is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and adheres to its code of conduct
• The Company Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director, who attended meetings by invitation to advise on speciﬁ c 
questions raised by the Committee and on matters relating to the 
performance and remuneration of senior managers
• The Global HR Director (Ian Watson), who was invited to attend 
meetings to advise on bonus payments, and the remuneration 
of senior managers
• The Company Secretary (Ian Haslegrave), who acts as Secretary 
to the Committee
Base salary and beneﬁ ts
For the year under review, the Executive Directors received an 
increase in basic pay of 2.5%, in line with the rest of the UK business 
and below the increase in base pay averaged across the Group. 
Full details of the Executive Directors’ pay are provided in the 
remuneration table on page 52. 
For the forthcoming year, the Committee has reviewed the base 
salaries of the Executive Directors having considered general 
economic conditions and average salary increases across the rest of 
the UK business of around 2%. The Committee has agreed that Ian 
Mason and Simon Boddie will receive no increase in their salaries. 
This will be the fourth year their rise in salary has been below median 
increase for executive directors of FTSE 250 companies. 50 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2013 LTIP awards for Executive Directors
For awards to be granted in June 2013, the Remuneration Committee 
intends to make LTIP awards with face values of 125% of salary and 
90% of salary to Ian Mason and Simon Boddie, respectively, to 
recognise their critical role and performance during an important 
phase of transition to the new strategy and organisational structure.
2009 LTIP award vesting
On 1 June 2012, the Committee determined that 20.5% of the Award 
made under the LTIP in June 2009 should vest. The performance 
condition was as set out for the 2012 Award above.
Vesting was determined as follows:
TSR % outperformance 
of FTSE 250 Index Achievement 
Award vesting 
(% of LTIP award)
Between Index and 
Index+20% Index +8.3% 20.5%
Annualised 3-year 
EPS growth Achievement 
Award vesting 
(% of LTIP award)
5% p.a. or below 3.6% p.a. 0%
In addition, the Committee was satisﬁ ed that there had been 
sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying ﬁ nancial 
performance during the performance period.
Further details are given in the current Director shareholdings table 
on pages 53 and 54.
2010 LTIP award vesting
For the forthcoming year, it is anticipated at the date of this report that 
the Committee will determine that 55% of the Award made under the 
LTIP in June 2010 should vest in accordance with the performance 
condition, based on the Company’s TSR and EPS performance over 
the performance period. The performance condition was as set out 
for the 2012 Award above.
Vesting is likely to be determined as follows:
TSR % outperformance 
of FTSE 250 Index
Achievement against 
condition
Award vesting 
(% of LTIP award)
Between Index 
and Index+20% Index +2.2% 5.5%
Annualised 3-year 
EPS growth 
Achievement 
against condition
Award vesting 
(% of LTIP award)
10% p.a. or greater 19.2 % p.a. 50%
In addition, the Committee must be satisﬁ ed that there has been 
sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying ﬁ nancial 
performance during the performance period.
All Employee Share Scheme
The Company seeks to make it possible for as many employees as 
practicable to join an all-employee share plan. There are currently 
around 1,200 employees subscribing to all-employee share plans 
around the Group. The Plans are offered annually to employees 
(including Executive Directors) who are in employment with the 
Group immediately before the annual invitation period, including 
employees in most overseas operating companies. 
The Plans allow a maximum of £250 (or equivalent currency value) to 
be saved each month and converted into Electrocomponents’ shares 
(or the value thereof for overseas participants) at the end of either 
three or ﬁ ve years. The price at which they can be converted is at a 
discount (normally 20%) to the price of Electrocomponents’ shares at 
the beginning of the invitation period (calculated on an average of the 
share prices over three days). At maturity, participants have a period 
of six months to convert their savings into shares (or the value 
thereof, for overseas participants). There are no performance 
conditions, other than, normally, continued employment with the 
Group. Details of the participation of Executive Directors are shown 
on page 53.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
Participation in the Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) extends to 
Executive Directors and members of the senior executive team. 
DSBP awards to be made in respect of the year under review
For the year under review, the cash bonus will be augmented by a 
share award under the DSBP equivalent to 50% of the cash award 
i.e. 1 .85% of salary, which will vest two years after the award.
DSBP awards made during the year to 31 March 2013
Awards were made of a total of 147 ,511 ordinary shares on 3 July 
2012, in respect of bonuses earned for the year ended 31 March 2012. 
A cash payment, equivalent to the dividends that would have accrued 
on the shares, will be made to participants on vesting. Shares were 
awarded to the Executive Directors as set out in the current Director 
shareholdings table on pages 53 and 54.
Vesting of DSBP awards during the year to 31 March 2013
Share awards made under the DSBP in 2010 vested in their entirety 
on 30 June 2012. Full details of the vesting and dividend equivalents 
paid to Executive Directors are given in the current Director 
shareholdings table on pages 53 and 54.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company operates a long-term incentive, the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP). Participation in the LTIP extends to Executive 
Directors and around 100 senior managers. Under the Company’s 
LTIP , a conditional award of 1,633,904 shares (an Award) was made 
to plan participants on 3 July 2012, and will normally vest after three 
years, subject to a performance condition and, normally, the 
participant’s continued employment with the Group. 
A cash payment, equivalent to the dividends that would have accrued 
on the number of shares that vest, will be made to participants 
on vesting.
2012 LTIP awards for Executive Directors
In the year ended 31 March 2013, an LTIP award of 100% (2012: 
100%) of salary was granted to Ian Mason and 75% (2012: 75%) 
of salary to Simon Boddie in July 2012. Details are provided in 
the current Director shareholdings table on pages 53 and 54.
Vesting of one half of the Awards made to Executive Directors is 
dependent upon Electrocomponents’ total shareholder return (TSR) 
percentage out-performance of the FTSE 250 index (the Index) over 
the three ﬁ nancial years commencing 1 April 2012, as follows:
TSR % outperformance of 
FTSE 250 Index Award vesting (% of LTIP award)
Index +20% or greater 50%
Between Index and Index +20%
Straight-line sliding scale from 
0%-50%
In line with Index, or below 0%
The FTSE 250 index was chosen as the benchmark because 
Electrocomponents is a constituent of the index and it is objective 
and transparent. 
Vesting of the other half of the Award is conditional on growth in 
the Company’s cumulative earnings per share (EPS), as follows:
Annualised 3-year EPS growth Award vesting (% of LTIP award)
10% p.a. or greater 50%
Between 5% p.a. and 10% p.a.
Straight-line sliding scale from 
0%-50%
5% p.a. or below 0%
In addition, for the Awards to vest, the Committee must be satisﬁ ed 
that there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying ﬁ nancial performance.
Remunera tion Report continued Directors’ report: Corporate governance
51  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Single ﬁ gure of remuneration 
The following table provides a single ﬁ gure for remuneration of 
the Executive Directors. In calculating this ﬁ gure, we have used the 
methodology proposed to the Government’s Department of Business, 
Innovation & Skills (BIS) by the Financial Reporting Lab at the FRC. 
Ian Mason (£000s) Simon Boddie (£000s)
2013 2012 2013 2012
Salary 577 551 385 363
Beneﬁ ts 18 17 15 13
Pension 173 188 167 187
Annual bonus 21 159 14 106
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 11 80 7 53
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 395 181 197 91
TOTAL 1,195 1,176 785 813
Long-Term Incentive Plan: For 2013, the value at 31 March 2013 of shares expected to 
vest in the ﬁ nancial year to 31 March 2014, subject to performance over the three-year 
period ending 31 March 2013.  For 2012, the value of shares (at their date of vesting) 
which vested in the ﬁ nancial year to 31 March 2013.
Group Chief Executive ﬁ ve-year historic pay ﬁ gures
The table below shows Ian Mason’s total remuneration for the last 
ﬁ ve years, together with annual bonus outcomes and LTIP vesting 
ﬁ gures. The total remuneration ﬁ gure is calculated on the same 
basis as the single ﬁ gures given above.
Financial year Incumbent
CEO total 
remuneration
(£000s)
Annual bonus
outcome
(% of max.)
LTIP vesting 
outcome
(% of max.)
2013 I Mason 1,195 3.7% 55.5%
2012 I Mason 1,176 28.2% 20.5%
2011 I Mason 1,862 100.0% 50.0%
2010 I Mason 1,472 74.1% 21 .4%
2009 I Mason 750 0.0% 0.0%
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
Peter Johnson agreed to forgo his fee when he temporarily stepped 
down from his role as Chairman in October 2011 . From May 2012 
he was paid a Non-Executive Director fee only, until he resumed 
his role as Chairman in November 2012. Peter is paid £175,000 
(2012: £190,000) per annum. 
The Non-Executive Directors are each paid a fee of £45,000 per 
annum. In addition, Rupert Soames, as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, and Paul Hollingworth, as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, each receive an additional fee of £10,000 per annum. 
Rupert Soames and Adrian Auer’s fees were increased temporarily 
to reﬂ ect their increased responsibilities until the Chairman resumed 
his role in November 2012.
Full details are given in the remuneration table on page 52.
Dilution headroom
Awards granted under the Company’s LTIP are capable of being 
satisﬁ ed by the issue of new shares. The Company’s current dilution 
levels are well within commonly accepted limits. The Company’s 
Employee Beneﬁ t Trust can also be used to provide shares to satisfy 
LTIP share awards, by purchasing shares in the market. This trust is 
funded by the Company. It is intended that awards made under the 
Company’s Deferred Share Bonus Plan will be satisﬁ ed by the trust. 
The trust currently holds 337 ,059 (2012: 408,417) shares.
Five-year TSR performance
The following graph shows the ﬁ ve-year TSR performance of the 
Company relative to the FTSE All Share and the FTSE 250 Indices. 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 
(VALUE OF £100 INVESTED ON 31 march 2008)
31 Mar 08 31 Mar 09 31 Mar 10 31 Mar 11 31 Mar 12 31 Mar 13
0
50
100
150
200
250
 
Electrocomponents  
 
FTSE All Share  
 
FTSE250
The FTSE All Share is a broad equity market index of which 
Electrocomponents is a member, and the Company is measuring 
its TSR performance versus the FTSE 250 for the purposes of the 
LTIP and has therefore included this as a relevant index.
PROFIT AFTER TAX (£m)
 -2 %
2012
2013
0 20406080 100
DIVIDEND (£m)
 0%
2012
2013
0 20406080 100
TOTAL EMPLOYEE 
PAY EXPENDITURE (£m)
 -0 . 1%
2012
2013
0 50 100 150 200 250
Distribution statement
The graphs below shows Electrocomponents’ proﬁ t after tax, dividend and expenditure on total employee pay for the year under review 
and the prior year, and the percentage change year on year. 52 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2013 (audited)
Salary, annual bonus and other beneﬁ ts
Salary paid 
2013
£
Salary paid
 2012
a
£
Cash 
supplement 
in lieu of 
pension
 2013
b
£
Cash 
supplement 
in lieu of 
pension
 2012
b
£
Beneﬁ ts
2013
£
Beneﬁ ts
2012
£
Cash 
bonus
 2013
c
£
Cash 
bonus
 2012
c
£
T otal
2013
£
Total 
2012
£
Emoluments of 
the Chairman
P Johnson
e
95,416 95,000 – – – – – – 95,416 95,000
Emoluments of 
Executive Directors
I Mason 578,005 552,270 173,042 99,236 16,608 16,132 21,429 159,062 789,084 826,700
S Boddie 385,740 364,693 167 ,275 114,772 13,457 12,229 14,286 106,041 580,758 597 ,735
T otals 1,059,161 1,011,963 340,317 214,008 30,065 28,361 35,715 265,103 1,465,258 1,519,435
Fees of Non-
Executive Directors
A Auer
e
50,833 49,792
K Guerra 11,250 –
P Hollingworth
d
55,000 54,792
J Pattullo 11,250 –
R Soames
d,e
 81,250 81,667
T otals 1,674,841 1,705,686
a The salary shown in the 2012 column excludes £11,664 for Ian Mason and £11,664 for Simon Boddie, which was deducted in respect of salary sacriﬁ ce. No deduction was 
made in respect of salary sacriﬁ ce for the year under review.
b The increase in cash supplement in lieu of pension for Ian Mason and Simon Boddie is as a consequence of the decision by both Executive Directors to opt out of the 
Company Pension Scheme. Further details can be found on page 49.
c An additional 50% of these amounts was awarded to each of the Executive Directors in the form of shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, described on page 50 
of this Report.
d Rupert Soames, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and Paul Hollingworth, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, each received an additional fee of £10,000 per 
annum. This fee is included within their remuneration shown above.
e Peter Johnson waived his fee for the period to 1 November 2012 but was paid a Non-Executive Director fee to reﬂ ect his continuing participation as a Board member from 
May 2012. Rupert Soames’ remuneration increased temporarily until 1 November 2012 to £100,000 and Adrian Auer’s remuneration increased temporarily until the same date 
to £55,000. These increases are pro-rated to the time during which Rupert was Acting Chairman and Adrian was acting as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Ian Mason and Simon Boddie’s annual salaries from 1 June 2012 are £579,160 and £386,110 respectively (before 1 June 2012: £565,031 and 
£376,688). The salary paid ﬁ gure in the table above includes £1,200 (2012: £1,200) paid to both Ian Mason and Simon Boddie in cash, in lieu 
of personal fuel allowance. 
No compensation for loss of ofﬁ ce was paid during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Remunera tion Report continued Directors’ report: Corporate governance
53  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Pensions 
The following table gives details for each Executive Director of:
• The annual accrued pension payable from normal retirement age, calculated as if they had left service at the year end i.e. 31 March 2013
• The increase in accrued pension attributable to service as a Director during the year
• The transfer value of the accrued beneﬁ t at the year end
• The transfer value of the accrued beneﬁ t at the previous year end
• The increase in the transfer value over the period
These amounts exclude any (i) beneﬁ ts attributable to contributions to the deﬁ ned contribution section of the Scheme, (ii) additional voluntary 
contributions and (iii) actual members’ contributions.
Ian Mason and Simon Boddie both opted to cease their pensionable service at 5 April 2012. Neither of them accrued any pension in the Scheme 
or paid any contributions to the Scheme during the year.
 Age at 31 
March 
2013
Y ears
Accrued 
pension as 
at 31 
March
2013
a
£
Increase in 
accrued 
pension 
beneﬁ ts
£
Increase in 
accrued 
pension 
net of
 inﬂ ation
b
£
T ransfer 
value as at 
31 March
 2013
c
£
Transfer 
value as at
31 March
2012
£
Increase in
 transfer
 value
c
£ 
T ransfer value 
at 31 March 
2013 of the 
increase in 
accrued 
pension net
of inﬂ ation
c
£
I Mason 50 54,148 1,577 (52) 999,000 886,000 113,000 (1,000) 
S Boddie 53 28,335 786 (68)500,000 451,000 49,000 (1,000) 
a The accrued pension beneﬁ ts shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement at normal retirement age, based on pensionable service to 5 April 2012 
and the revaluation of their deferred pension to 31 March 2013. 
b RPI inﬂ ation for the year to March 2013 was 3.1%. This is the predominant measure used to revalue deferred pensions each year. The increase in accrued pension net of 
RPI inﬂ ation is negative as a result of a 2.5% p.a. cap applying to the revaluation of pension accrued after 5 April 2009.
c Transfer values at 31 March 2013 have been calculated on the Scheme’s transfer value basis, in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values) 
Regulations 2008. 
The transfer value calculations include the effect of ﬂ uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company 
and Directors, such as ﬁ nancial market movements. 
Current Director shareholdings
Share options (audited)
Scheme 
Date of 
grant
Vesting 
date
Expiration 
date
Exercise 
price
Shares 
under 
option 1 
April 2012
Granted in 
2013
Exercised 
in 2013
Lapsed in 
2013
Shares 
under 
option 31 
March 
2013
I Mason Savings related 01-Jul-09 01-Sep-14 28-Feb-15 149.00p 10,436 – – – 10,436
Total 10,436 – – – 10,436
S Boddie Savings related 30-Jun-10 01-Sep-13 28-Feb-14 175.00p 3,085 – – – 3,085
29-Jun-11 01-Sep-14 28-Feb-15 235.00p 1,536 – – – 1,536
Total 4,621 – – – 4,621 54 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Share awards
Notes Scheme Date of Award
Shares 
awarded at
1 April 2012
Shares 
awarded in 
2013 
Vested in 
2013
Lapsed in 
2013
Shares 
awarded at 
31 March 
2013
I Mason a
Long T erm 
Incentive Plan 30-Jun-09
b
386,165 – 79,163 307 ,002 –
30-Jun-10 248,009 – – – 248,009
5-Jul-11 201,480 – – – 201,480
3-Jul-12 – 276,975 – – 276,975
c
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 30-Jun-10
d
93,005 – 93,005 – –
5-Jul-11 100,483 – – – 100,483
3-Jul-12 – 38,119 – – 38,119
Total 1,029,142 315,094 172,168 307 ,002 865,066
S Boddie a
Long T erm 
Incentive Plan 30-Jun-09
b
193,082 – 39,581 153,501 –
30-Jun-10 124,005 – – – 124,005
5-Jul-11 100,740 – – – 100,740
3-Jul-12 – 138,488 – – 138,488
c
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 30-Jun-10
d
62,003 – 62,003 – –
5-Jul-11 66,989 – – – 66,989
3-Jul-12 – 25,412 – – 25,412
Total 546,819 163,900 101,584 153,501 455,634
a Awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are subject to performance conditions and a vesting period set out on page 50. The vesting date for the awards 
granted under the LTIP in 2010 is expected to be in May 2013.
b On 1 June 2012, the Committee determined that 20.5% of the Award made under the LTIP in June 2009 should vest in accordance with the performance condition based 
on the Company’s TSR and EPS as described on page 50 of this report. The Committee was satisﬁ ed that there had been sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying ﬁ nancial performance during the performance period. In addition, cash dividend entitlements of £26,519 and £13,259 were paid at vesting to Ian Mason and 
Simon Boddie respectively. 
c Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) awards are subject to the terms set out on page 50.
d On 2 July 2012, the Award made under the DSBP in June 2010 vested in full. There are no performance conditions but vesting is dependent normally on continuing 
employment with the Group. Cash dividend entitlements of £21,623 and £14,415 were paid at vesting to Ian Mason and Simon Boddie respectively. 
The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 31 March 2013 was 251 .0p. During the year, the price of the Company’s shares varied 
between 195.2p and 265.0p. The mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 1 June 2012, being the date on which the 2009 LTIP vested, 
was 195.2p. The mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 2 July 2012, being the date on which the 2010 DSBP vested, was 209.3p. 
The mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 3 July 2012, when the LTIP and DSBP awards were made, was 213.4p. 
Directors’ interests in shares 
The beneﬁ cial interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are set out in the table below. The Directors 
have no non-beneﬁ cial interests. 
31 March 2013 or date 
ceased to be a Director
1 April 2012 or date 
appointed as a Director
A Auer 2,500 2,500
S Boddie 187 ,349 139,358
K Guerra 7 ,525 –
P Hollingworth 10,000 10,000
P Johnson 100,000 100,000
I Mason 294,126 212,989
J Pattullo 10,000 –
R Soames 15,024 15,024
Up to 22 May 2013 there have been no changes in the Directors’ interests or rights to subscribe for shares.
By Order of the Board
Rupert Soames, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
23 May 2013
Remunera tion Report continued Directors’ report: Corporate governance
55  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Other Disclosures 
Payment to suppliers
The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions 
with different suppliers. Payment is then made according to these 
terms, subject to the supplier fulﬁ lling its obligations. The Company 
has no trade creditors. Supplier payment days for the continuing 
operations of the Group outstanding at 31 March 2013 represent 
39 days (2012: 42 days) of average purchases.
Political and charitable contributions
The Group made no political contributions during the year. Charitable 
contributions within the UK amounted to £24,253 (2012: £7 ,737) 
and outside the UK amounted to £33,515 (2012: £36,240). Further 
information regarding charitable work and involvement in local 
community activities within the Group is given in the Corporate 
responsibility section of the Business review on page 31 .
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at 
12 noon on Wednesday, 17 July 2013 at the Company’s premises: 
The International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park 
North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out in a separate circular.
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by 
ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding 
the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim 
dividends whenever the ﬁ nancial position of the Company, in the 
opinion of the Board, justiﬁ es such payment. The Board may withhold 
payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in 
respect of the Company’s shares from a person with a 0.25% interest 
(as deﬁ ned in the Articles) if such a person has been served with 
a notice after failure to provide the Company with information 
concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under 
the Companies Act.
Voting rights
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of 
shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and 
every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and 
on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one 
vote for each share. In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of 
the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be 
accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and 
for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which 
the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the Group income statement on 
page 59. An analysis of revenue, proﬁ t and net assets by region is 
shown in note 2 on pages 68 to 70. The Directors have declared 
dividends as follows:
Ordinary shares
Paid interim dividend of 5p per share 
(11 January 2013)
2012: 5p per share
Proposed ﬁ nal dividend of 6.75p per share 
(to be paid on 22 July 2013)
2012: 6.75p per share
Total ordinary dividend of 11 .75p per share 
for year ended 31 March 2013
2012: 11 .75p per share
Share capital
Full details of share options and awards and shares issued under the 
terms of the Company’s share incentive plans can be found in note 6 
to the accounts on pages 72 to 73.
As at 31 March 2013, the Company’s issued share capital comprised 
a single class of 438,124,179 ordinary shares of 10p each, totalling 
£43,812,417 .90.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting held on 13 July 2012 to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary 
share capital in the market. This authority will expire at the end of 
the 2013 Annual General Meeting and the Company is proposing 
a resolution to renew it for another year.
Directors’ indemnities
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Company entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the Directors and 
Ofﬁ cers (from time to time) of the Company to the extent permitted 
by law. A copy of this indemnity (which remains in force as of the date 
on which this report was approved) is available at the registered ofﬁ ce 
of the Company.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors’ and Ofﬁ cers’ 
liability insurance throughout 2012, which was renewed for 2013. 
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event that 
a Director or Ofﬁ cer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Financial instruments
For information on the Group’s use of ﬁ nancial instruments, including 
ﬁ nancial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, and 
exposure of the Group to certain ﬁ nancial risks, see note 20 on 
pages 84 to 91 .
Substantial shareholders
As at 22 May 2013, the Company has been notiﬁ ed, in accordance with the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests 
in the voting rights of the Company: 
Nature of interest Number of shares Percentage held
Silchester International Investors LLP Direct 83,089,855 19.05%
Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 33,046,296 7 .58%
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Direct and Indirect 22,383,083 5.11%
Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 21,996,999 5.04%
FIL Limited Indirect 21,547 ,083 4.92%
Sanderson Asset Management Ltd Direct 18,240,445 4.18%
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. and Baring Asset Management Ltd Indirect 17 ,649,626 4.05% 56 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by 
special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by 
the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company. The 
Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money 
and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and 
uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether 
outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of 
the Company or of any third party.
Signiﬁ cant agreements: change of control
All of the Company’s share plans contain provisions relating to a 
change of control. Outstanding awards and options would normally 
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment of Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of 
special resolution.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁ ce at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report each conﬁ rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each 
Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Company number
Registered Number: 647788
By order of the Board
Ian Haslegrave, General Counsel and Company Secretary
23 May 2013
Restrictions on voting
No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at 
any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held 
by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of 
that share remains unpaid. In addition no member shall be entitled 
to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide 
the Company with information concerning interests in those shares 
required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to 
corporate members, by corporate representative. The Articles provide 
a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or 
adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights
Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached 
to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the 
holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued 
shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution 
passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any 
usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the 
Directors. The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf 
of the transferor and (except in the case of fully paid shares) by or on 
behalf of the transferee. Transfers of shares which are in uncertiﬁ cated 
form are effected by means of the CREST system. The Directors may, 
in the case of shares in certiﬁ cated form, in their absolute discretion 
and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of 
shares (not being fully paid shares) provided that such discretion may 
not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares 
of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis. The 
Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of 
shares (whether fully-paid or not) in favour of more than four persons 
jointly. If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they 
shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment 
or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the allottee or 
transferee a notice of the refusal. Subject to statutes and applicable 
CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares 
may be held in uncertiﬁ cated form and that title to such shares may 
be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any 
class should cease to be so held and transferred. A shareholder 
does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other 
shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to 
take place.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve in 
number. A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company 
by way of qualiﬁ cation. The Company may by ordinary resolution 
increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors. 
Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before 
the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the 
current calendar year shall retire by rotation. In addition, each Director, 
(other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive ofﬁ ce) 
shall retire at each Annual General Meeting following the ninth 
anniversary of the date on which he was elected. A retiring Director 
is eligible for re-election. The Board may appoint any person to be a 
Director (so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed 
the limit prescribed in the Articles). Any such Director shall hold ofﬁ ce 
only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible 
for re-election.
Other Disclosures continued Directors’ report: Corporate governance
57  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
st a tement of directors’ responsibilities
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Accounts 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts and the Group and Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company ﬁ nancial statements for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group ﬁ nancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁ nancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of 
their proﬁ t or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
• For the Group ﬁ nancial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
• For the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent 
Company ﬁ nancial statements
• Prepare the ﬁ nancial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent 
Company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁ cient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁ nancial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its ﬁ nancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ Remuneration 
report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that 
law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁ nancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of ﬁ nancial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
Annual Report and Accounts
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 34 to 35 of this document, conﬁ rms that to the best of 
their knowledge:
• The accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and proﬁ t or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
and
• The Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
By order of the Board
Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive
Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director
23 May 2013
The report and accounts contains certain statements, statistics and 
projections that are or may be forward-looking. The accuracy and 
completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, 
statements regarding the future ﬁ nancial position, strategy, projected 
costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations 
of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted 
or guaranteed. These statements typically contain words such as 
‘intends’, ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘estimates’ and words of similar 
import. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk 
and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend 
on circumstances that will occur in the future. Although 
Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reﬂ ected in 
such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such 
expectations will prove to be correct. There are a number of factors, 
which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which 
could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any 
exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents 
plc has no intention or obligation to update forward-looking 
statements contained herein. 58 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
We have audited the ﬁ nancial statements of Electrocomponents plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2013 set out on pages 59 to 102. The 
ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Group ﬁ nancial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The 
ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements is applicable law and UK 
Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 57 , the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the ﬁ nancial statements and for being satisﬁ ed that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, 
the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the ﬁ nancial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁ nancial statements is 
provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.
uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on ﬁ nancial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2013 
and of the Group’s proﬁ t for the year then ended; 
• the Group ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; 
• the ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards 
the Group ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ report for the ﬁ nancial year 
for which the ﬁ nancial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the ﬁ nancial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by law are 
not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 41, in relation to 
going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 37 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁ ed for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.
Paul Sawdon (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
23 May 2013
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC Financial statements
59  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Revenue 1,2 1,235.6 1,267.4 
Cost of sales  (667.2) (674.7)
Gross profit  568.4 592.7 
Distribution and marketing expenses  (461.8) (455.4)
Administrative expenses  (9.7) (9.2)
Operating profit  96.9 128.1 
    
Financial income 1 2.8 1.8 
Financial expense 1 (8.4) (7.6)
    
Profit before tax 1,2,3 91.3 122.3 
    
Income tax expense 8 (28.4) (37.4)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company  62.9 84.9 
    
Earnings per share    
Basic 10 14.4 19.5 
Diluted 10 14.3 19.3 
    
Dividends    
Amounts recognised in the period:    
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 9 6.75p 6.5p 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 9 5.0p 5.0p 
  11.75p 11.5p 
A final dividend of 6.75p per share relating to the year has been proposed since the year end. 
The notes on pages 68 to 93 form part of these Group accounts. 
Headline profit before tax    
Profit before tax  91.3 122.3 
Reorganisation costs 4 7.4  – 
  98.7 122.3 
    
Headline earnings per share     
Basic 10 15.7 19.5 
Diluted 10 15.6 19.3 
  60 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Profit for the year  62.9 84.9 
Other comprehensive income    
Foreign exchange translation differences  11.5 (3.1)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 7 (25.5) (21.8)
Movement in unrecognised pension surplus  11.3 13.8 
Net (loss) gain on cash flow hedges  (0.7) 2.0 
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income  4.2 1.2 
Other comprehensive income (expense) for the year  0.8 (7.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year  63.7 77.0 
  Financial statements
61  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
GROUP BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2013 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 11 223.5 204.1 
Property, plant and equipment 12 112.1 119.5 
Investments 14 0.6 0.6 
Other receivables 17 7.1 7.0 
Other financial assets 20 11.8 7.7 
Deferred tax assets 21 6.4 10.2 
  361.5 349.1 
Current assets    
Inventories 16 261.9 258.4 
Trade and other receivables 17 221.1 220.8 
Current tax receivables  5.9 2.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 25 9.3 19.8 
  498.2 501.9 
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables 18 (194.8) (212.3)
Provisions and other liabilities 4 (0.6) – 
Loans and borrowings 19 (10.7) (1.4)
Other financial liabilities 19 (1.4) – 
Current tax liabilities  (13.9) (11.3)
  (221.4) (225.0)
Net current assets  276.8 276.9 
Total assets less current liabilities  638.3 626.0 
Non-current liabilities    
Other payables 18 (11.8) (10.7)
Retirement benefit obligations 7 (19.0) (8.3)
Loans and borrowings 19 (168.0) (180.2)
Other financial liabilities 19 (0.7) (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (59.2) (60.7)
  (258.7) (260.0)
Net assets  379.6 366.0 
Equity    
Called-up share capital 24 43.8 43.7 
Share premium account  40.3 39.8 
Retained earnings  263.9 263.9 
Cumulative translation reserve  32.8 20.3 
Other reserves  (1.2) (1.7)
Equity attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company  379.6 366.0 
These Group accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2013 and signed on its behalf by: 
Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director 
The notes on pages 68 to 93 form part of these Group accounts.  62 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities    
Profit before tax  91.3 122.3 
Depreciation and other amortisation  25.9 27.9 
Equity-settled transactions  2.0 2.9 
Finance income and expense  5.6 5.8 
Non-cash movement on investment in associate   – 0.1 
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital, interest and taxes  124.8 159.0 
Decrease (increase) in inventories  1.4 (28.7)
Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables  3.0 (12.1)
(Decrease) increase in trade and other payables  (21.9) 5.0 
Increase in provisions  0.6  – 
Cash generated from operations  107.9 123.2 
Interest received  2.8 1.8 
Interest paid  (8.4) (7.6)
Income tax paid  (25.6) (26.9)
Net cash from operating activities  76.7 90.5 
Cash flows from investing activities    
Capital expenditure  (28.7) (38.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  1.3 0.6 
Net cash used in investing activities  (27.4) (37.8)
Free cash flow  49.3 52.7 
Cash flows from financing activities    
Proceeds from the issue of share capital  0.6 1.1 
Purchase of own shares  (0.5) – 
New loans   – 106.0 
Loans repaid  (18.2) (95.2)
Dividends from vested share options  (0.7) – 
Equity dividends paid 9 (51.3) (50.1)
Net cash used in financing activities  (70.1) (38.2)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents  (20.8) 14.5 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  18.6 5.6 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation on cash  0.8 (1.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 25 (1.4) 18.6 
The notes on pages 68 to 93 form part of these Group accounts. 
   Financial statements
63  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
   Other reserves    
 
Share
capital
£m 
Share 
premium
£m 
Hedging 
reserve
£m 
Own  
shares held 
£m 
Cumulative 
translation 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2012 43.7 39.8 0.2 (1.9) 20.3 263.9 366.0 
        
Profit for the year  –  –  –  –   –  62.9 62.9 
Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  –  –  11.5  – 11.5 
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes  –  –  –  –   –  (25.5) (25.5)
Movement in unrecognised pension surplus  –  –  –  –   –  11.3 11.3 
Net loss on cash flow hedges (see note 20)  –  – (0.7) –   –   – (0.7)
Taxation relating to components of other  
comprehensive income  –  – 0.4  –  1.0 2.8 4.2 
Total comprehensive income  –  – (0.3) –  12.5 51.5 63.7 
Equity-settled transactions  –  –  –  –   –  2.0 2.0 
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –   –  (51.3) (51.3)
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 0.1 0.5  – 1.3  –  (1.7) 0.2 
Own shares acquired  –  –  – (0.5)  –   – (0.5)
Related tax movements  –  –  –  –   –  (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 March 2013 43.8 40.3 (0.1) (1.1) 32.8 263.9 379.6 
 
   Other reserves    
 
Share
capital
£m 
Share 
premium
£m 
Hedging 
reserve
£m 
Own  
shares held 
£m 
Cumulative 
translation 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2011 43.6 38.8 (1.4) (1.7) 23.6 232.4 335.3 
        
Profit for the year  –  –  –  –   –  84.9 84.9 
Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  –  –  (3.1)  – (3.1)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes  –  –  –  –   –  (21.8) (21.8)
Movement in unrecognised pension surplus  –  –  –  –   –  13.8 13.8 
Net gain on cash flow hedges (see note 20)  –  – 2.0  –   –   – 2.0 
Taxation relating to components of other  
comprehensive income  –  – (0.4) –  (0.2) 1.8 1.2 
Total comprehensive income  –  – 1.6  –  (3.3) 78.7 77.0 
Equity-settled transactions  –  –  –  –   –  2.9 2.9 
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –   –  (50.1) (50.1)
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 0.1 1.0  –  –   –   – 1.1 
Own shares acquired  –  –  – (0.2)  –  – (0.2)
At 31 March 2012 43.7 39.8 0.2 (1.9) 20.3 263.9 366.0 
The notes on pages 68 to 93 form part of these Group accounts. 64 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AS AT 31 MARCH 2013 
Basis of consolidation 
Electrocomponents plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled  
in England. The Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as 
the ‘Group’) and the Group’s interest in a jointly controlled entity. 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. All significant 
subsidiary accounts are made up to 31 March and are included in the 
Group Accounts. Further to the IAS Regulation (EC 1606/2002) the 
Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the EU (‘adopted 
IFRS’). The Company accounts continue to be prepared in accordance 
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’) and 
details of the Company accounts, notes to the accounts and principal 
accounting policies are set out on pages 95 to 96.  
The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on  
23 May 2013. 
Basis of preparation 
The accounts are presented in £ Sterling and rounded to £0.1m.  
They are prepared on a going concern basis, as referred to in the 
Directors’ report on page 41, and on the historical cost basis except 
certain financial instruments as detailed below.  
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets  
and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the 
results of which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent 
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Estimates and judgements 
The preparation of accounts requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of 
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expense. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  
The significant estimates made in the accounts for the year ended  
31 March 2013 are: 
• Pensions: the key assumptions and estimates relate to discount 
rates, inflation rates and increases to salaries and pensions in 
payment. These are explained in more detail in note 7 
• Goodwill: the Group’s goodwill principally relates to the acquisition 
of Allied Electronics Inc. in July 1999. The key assumptions used  
to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill relate to future 
operating performance, cash flows and discount rates. These are 
set out in note 11 
• Inventory: the estimation of the net realisable value of inventory. 
This estimation includes assessment of product sales levels and 
assumptions around product lifecycles 
• Taxation: The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws 
and regulations that apply in each of the jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. Where the precise impact of these laws and 
regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to 
determine the tax charge included in the financial statements 
• Share-based payments: The estimation of the likelihood of vesting 
conditions being met is included in the calculation of the cost of 
share-based payments. These are explained in more detail in note 6 
 
Statement of compliance 
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with IFRS  
as adopted for use by the EU.  
Adjusted measures 
Profit measures such as operating profit, profit before tax and 
earnings per share are also presented as being results before 
reorganisation costs/income and pension changes or as headline 
results. Similarly a cash flow term, ‘free cash flow,’ representing  
the Group’s cash flow before financing activities is also disclosed.  
These measures are used by the Group for internal reporting 
purposes and employee incentive arrangements. The terms ‘pension 
changes/reorganisation’, ‘headline’ and ‘free cash flow’ are not 
defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similar 
measures disclosed by other companies. Likewise, these measures 
are not a substitute for GAAP measures of profit or cash flow.  
Revenue 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income 
statement on dispatch when the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership have been transferred. Revenue represents the sale of 
goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes and volume 
discounts. Freight recharged to customers is included within revenue. 
Customer loyalty schemes 
The cost of loyalty schemes is treated as a deduction from sales and 
part of the fair value of the consideration received is deferred and 
subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are 
redeemed. The fair value of the points awarded is determined with 
reference to the fair value to the customer and takes into account 
factors such as the redemption rate. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income and 
expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in 
preparing Group accounts. Unrealised gains arising from transactions 
with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the 
same way as unrealised gains.  
Goodwill and other intangibles 
Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been 
written off against reserves. Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 
April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP, was amortised 
on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, with a maximum 
of 20 years. 
The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that  
allows goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004  
to remain as stated under UK GAAP. The balance of goodwill as at  
1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward. Goodwill is not 
amortised under IFRS. Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually 
for impairment.  
   Financial statements
65  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. The cost of acquired intangible assets is their purchase 
cost together with any incidental costs of acquisition. Amortisation is 
calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a straight-line basis at 
the following annual rates: 
Trademarks  5% 
Computer software costs  12.5%-50% 
Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses 
in the income statement. The residual value, if significant, is 
reassessed annually. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill  
and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense  
as incurred. 
Investments in jointly controlled entities 
The Group accounts include the Group’s share of the total recognised 
gains and losses in one jointly controlled entity on an equity 
accounted basis. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.  
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, 
direct labour and certain direct overheads. 
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and 
rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Each finance 
leased asset is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair  
value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at  
the inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation. 
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land. Other assets 
have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at  
the following annual rates: 
Freehold and leasehold buildings  2% 
Plant and machinery  10%-20% 
Mainframe computer equipment  20% 
Network computer equipment  33% 
Portable computers  50% 
Other office equipment  20% 
Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses  
in the income statement. The residual value, if significant, is 
reassessed annually.  
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s goodwill are reviewed annually for 
impairment. All other intangible assets are reviewed to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment. If such an indication 
exists the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of  
an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The 
recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less cost 
of sale and value in use. The present value of estimated future cash 
flows is calculated using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable  
value. This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis. Work  
in progress and goods for resale include attributable overheads. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis of their 
fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method. 
Net debt 
Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings. Cash 
and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with qualifying 
financial institutions in current accounts or overnight deposits net of 
overdrafts with qualifying financial institutions. Cash and cash 
equivalents include investment in money market funds and term 
deposits with qualifying financial institutions. Borrowings represent 
term loans from qualifying financial institutions together with financial 
instruments classified as liabilities. 
Operating expense classification 
Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods sold to customers. 
Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company 
expenses, including freight costs and movements in inventory 
provisions, together with the Group-wide Marketing, Offer and 
Information Technology expenses. 
Administration expenses comprise Group Finance, Legal and Group 
Human Resources process expenses, together with the expenses  
of the Group Board. 
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated 
using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds 
invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on 
hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, 
using the effective interest method. The interest expenses 
component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income 
statement using the effective interest rate method. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred 
using the effective interest rate method. Other interest payable 
includes interest charges on the unhedged portion of the Private 
Placement Loan notes. 
Catalogue costs 
The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues 
are expensed to the income statement when incurred. Major 
investments in software associated with new catalogue production 
systems are capitalised as intangible assets and written off over the 
period during which the benefits of those investments are anticipated, 
such period not to exceed three years. 
Operating leases 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the course of the lease period. The benefits of 
rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.  
   66 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
Government grants 
Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and 
equipment are credited to the income statement at the same rate  
as the depreciation on the asset to which the grants relate. The 
unamortised balance of capital grants is included within trade and 
other payables. 
Employee benefits 
Pension costs 
In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme 
providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for eligible 
employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004. The scheme  
is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent 
of the Group’s finances. In addition there are defined benefit pension 
schemes in Germany and the Republic of Ireland. 
For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides  
a defined contribution pension scheme. There are also defined 
contribution schemes in Australia, North America, Germany and  
the Republic of Ireland, and government schemes in France, Italy, 
Scandinavia and North Asia. Obligations for contributions to  
defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in  
the income statement as incurred. 
The cost of the defined benefit scheme charged to the income 
statement comprises; current service cost, past service cost, 
expected return on scheme assets and the interest cost on the 
expected amount of the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities 
within administrative expenses and distribution and marketing 
expenses. The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income immediately. 
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit 
credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality 
corporate bonds. Assets are measured at their fair value at the 
balance sheet date. 
Share-based payment transactions 
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest 
of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE), the 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Deferred Share Bonus Plan. 
Details of these are provided in note 6 to the Group accounts. 
Equity-settled share-based schemes are measured at fair value at  
the date of grant. The fair value is expensed with a corresponding 
increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the period during which 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair values 
are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model. The income 
statement charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels  
of vesting based on non market performance related criteria. 
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance 
sheet date. The Group recognises a liability at the balance sheet date 
based on these fair values, taking into account the estimated number 
of options that will actually vest and the relative completion of the 
vesting period. Changes in the value of this liability are recognised  
in the income statement for the year. 
Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses 
include the cost of the share-based payment schemes. 
Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer 
the schemes, are shown within reserves. 
The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2 
(Share-Based Payments) is applied only to awards made after  
7 November 2002.  
Tax 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and 
deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable 
income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in 
respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes.  
The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or 
the deferred tax liability is settled. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which these 
temporary differences can be utilised. 
Foreign currency 
Financial statements of foreign operations 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill  
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues 
and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate 
for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. 
Net investment in foreign operations 
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign 
operations and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly  
to equity. They are released into the income statement  
upon disposal. 
The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation 
differences prior to the date of transition (1 April 2004) do not need to 
be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed cumulative translation 
differences at this date can be set to £nil. Thus, any cumulative 
translation differences arising prior to the date of transition are 
excluded from any future profit or loss on disposal of any entities.  
The Group adopted this exemption. 
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate ruling  
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are 
translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the 
income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. 
   Financial statements
67  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
Financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure 
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational 
and financing activities. It principally employs forward foreign 
exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates over 
the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies. In 
addition there are also a number of interest rate swaps which swap 
certain fixed rate loans into floating rate. 
In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold or 
issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.  
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in 
line with the Group’s risk management policies. Hedges are classified 
as follows:  
• Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in 
cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
forecast transaction 
• Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes  
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability 
• Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to  
changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets  
of foreign operations 
All the Group’s derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value 
of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash flow or 
net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. 
Cash flow hedge accounting 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge  
of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or  
a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain  
or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly  
in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. When the forecast transaction 
subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or 
liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity 
and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability. 
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition 
of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss 
that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the income 
statement in the same period during which the asset acquired  
or liability assumed affects the income statement. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or 
exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship 
but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is 
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction 
occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, 
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference 
between their discounted contractual forward price and their current 
forward price.  
Fair value hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to 
interest rate and exchange rate risks arising from financing activities, 
holding a small number of interest rate and cross currency swaps 
which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate. The fair value of 
the swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance sheet date, 
taking into account current interest rates. The market value of 
changes in fair values of derivatives designated as fair value hedges 
and changes in fair value of the related hedged item are recognised 
directly in the income statement.
All hedges not accounted for under fair value hedge accounting are 
held at amortised cost, which approximates to fair value as interest 
repricing takes place on a regular basis. 
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge  
a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be  
an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. The ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.  
Changes in accounting policies 
There were no standards and interpretations enacted applicable  
to the period ended 31 March 2013 that are considered to have  
an impact on these accounts. 
The following standards and interpretations have been issued but  
not yet applied: 
• IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments) was originally issued in November 
2009 to review and replace IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement). In October 2010 the IASB issued 
an amended version. The standard will be applicable for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The effect on the 
Group is still being evaluated 
• Amendments to IAS 19 (Defined Benefit Plans) is applicable  
for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. IAS 19 (revised 
2011), (Employee Benefits), which replaces interest cost and 
expected return on plan assets with a finance cost component. This 
comprises net interest on the net defined benefit pension deficit 
calculated using the discount rate currently used to measure 
defined benefit pension liabilities. If this amendment had been 
applied in the year ended 31 March 2013, pre-tax profit would have 
been £4.6m lower, primarily because the discount rate is lower than 
the expected return on plan assets. The net pension deficit would 
have been unchanged 
• Amendments to IAS 1 (Presentation of Financial Statements)  
is applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. It 
requires that an entity separately presents the items of Other 
Comprehensive Income that may be reclassified to profit or  
loss in the future from those that would never be reclassified  
to profit or loss. This will not affect the reported results or net 
assets of the Group 
• IFRS 10 (Consolidated Financial Statements), IFRS 11 (Joint 
Arrangements) and IFRS 12 (Disclosure of Interests in Other 
Entities) were endorsed in December 2012 and will be effective for 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. These will replace the 
existing accounting standards for subsidiaries and joint ventures. 
This will not affect the reported results or net assets of the Group 
• IFRS 13 (Fair Value Measurement) was endorsed in December 
2012. It provides a single definition of fair value, a framework  
for measurement of fair values and disclosures about fair value 
measurements. This will not affect the reported results or net 
assets of the Group. The effective date is not yet known 
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments 
or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have 
a significant impact on the financial statements. 
  68 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
1 Analysis of income and expenditure 
This analysis reconciles the Income Statement presentation to the segmental reporting shown in note 2. 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Revenue 1,235.6 1,267.4 
Cost of sales (667.2) (674.7)
Distribution and marketing expenses within contribution (324.7) (325.9)
Headline contribution before Process costs 243.7 266.8 
Distribution and marketing expenses within Process costs (129.7) (129.5)
Administrative expenses within Process costs (9.7) (9.2)
Process costs (139.4) (138.7)
   
Headline operating profit 104.3 128.1 
Bank interest receivable 2.8 1.8 
Bank interest payable (3.8) (3.1)
Private placement note interest payable (4.6) (4.5)
Net financial expense (5.6) (5.8)
Headline profit before tax 98.7 122.3 
   
Reorganisation costs (7.4) – 
   
Profit before tax 91.3 122.3 
Distribution and marketing expenses within contribution comprise local costs relating to the selling and distribution of the Group’s products  
and are attributable to the region to which they relate. 
Distribution and marketing expenses within Process costs comprise the identification, introduction and sourcing of the Group’s products, 
managing supplier relationships, developing the Group’s strategy, managing the Group’s stock (both quantity and location) and the Group’s 
worldwide IT infrastructure. 
2 Segmental reporting 
In accordance with IFRS 8 (Operating Segments), Group management has identified its operating segments. The performance of these 
operating segments is reviewed, on a monthly basis, by the Group Chief Executive and the senior management team (the Group Executive 
Committee). There have been no changes to the segments as a result of the reorganisation. 
These operating segments are: the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, North America and Asia Pacific. The United Kingdom comprises 
operations in the United Kingdom and exports to distributors where the Group does not have a local operating company. Continental Europe 
comprises operations in France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Republic of Ireland, Spain, Switzerland, the Netherlands, 
Belgium, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. North America comprises operations in the United States of America and Canada. Asia 
Pacific comprises operations in Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Hong Kong, Taiwan, People’s 
Republic of China, South Korea, Chile and South Africa. 
Each reporting segment derives its revenue from the high service level distribution of electronics and maintenance products. 
Intersegment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis, comprising sales of product at cost and a handling charge included within 
distribution and marketing expenses. 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Revenue from external customers   
United Kingdom 375.1 364.7 
Continental Europe 426.2 456.3 
North America 268.6 277.5 
Asia Pacific 165.7 168.9 
 1,235.6 1,267.4 
 
   Financial statements
69  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
2 Segmental reporting continued 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Intersegment sales   
United Kingdom 205.3 211.4 
Continental Europe 57.3 51.9 
North America 7.4 6.4 
Asia Pacific 4.0 3.1 
 274.0 272.8 
 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Contribution   
United Kingdom 105.9 106.0 
Continental Europe 90.9 99.8 
North America 34.9 43.3 
Asia Pacific 12.0 17.7 
 243.7 266.8 
Reconciliation of headline contribution to profit before tax   
Headline contribution 243.7 266.8 
Group Process costs (139.4) (138.7)
Reorganisation costs (7.4) – 
Net financial expense (5.6) (5.8)
Profit before tax 91.3 122.3 
Net financial expenses, reorganisation costs and income tax are not included or reviewed as a measure of performance of a reportable 
segment, but as total costs to the Group. Therefore no segmental information has been provided. 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Segment assets   
United Kingdom 278.7 267.8 
Continental Europe 161.7 169.4 
North America 292.4 278.6 
Asia Pacific 93.5 94.6 
 826.3 810.4 
Unallocated assets   
Cash at bank and in hand 9.3 19.8 
Deferred tax assets 6.4 10.2 
Income tax assets 5.9 2.9 
Other financial assets 11.8 7.7 
Total assets 859.7 851.0 
 
   70 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
2 Segmental reporting continued 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Segment liabilities   
United Kingdom 126.6 124.7 
Continental Europe 59.4 60.3 
North America 21.7 23.7 
Asia Pacific 18.5 22.6 
 226.2 231.3 
Unallocated liabilities   
Income tax liabilities 13.9 11.3 
Deferred tax liabilities 59.2 60.7 
Loans and overdrafts 178.7 181.6 
Other financial liabilities 2.1 0.1 
Total liabilities 480.1 485.0 
 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Capital expenditure   
UK 24.2 24.8 
Continental Europe 1.2 2.1 
North America 2.1 8.0 
Asia Pacific 1.2 2.9 
 28.7 37.8 
 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Depreciation and amortisation   
UK 3.4 2.7 
Continental Europe 1.6 1.9 
North America 3.2 2.5 
Asia Pacific 0.7 0.8 
Process costs 17.0 20.0 
 25.9 27.9 
The intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the Group are reported within the geographic region to which they relate. The 
depreciation and amortisation of assets are expensed through the geography if they relate to a cost that is incurred by an operating company  
or through Process costs if they relate to costs incurred by a Group Process. 
The Group derives its revenue from two product types: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Electronics 504.7 531.8 
Maintenance 730.9 735.6 
 1,235.6 1,267.4 
   Financial statements
71  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
3 Profit before tax 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Profit before tax is stated after charging (crediting):   
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Parent Company and Group accounts 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:   
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6 
Other services pursuant to legislation – 0.1 
Other services relating to taxation  0.3  – 
Depreciation 12.2 12.6 
Amortisation of intangibles 13.7 15.3 
Amortisation of government grants (0.2) (0.2)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 
Hire of plant and machinery 7.5 3.6 
4 Reorganisation costs 
Reorganisation costs arising during the period are as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Redundancy and associated costs 7.4  – 
 7.4  – 
During the year, the Group undertook a significant restructuring of the business from a geographically-based operating model to a functionally-
based global operating model. The costs incurred in relation to this restructuring activity included redundancy and associated consultancy costs. 
£6.8m of the costs were paid in the year ended 31 March 2013. The remaining £0.6m is held within provisions and other liabilities falling due 
within one year. 
5 Employees 
Numbers employed 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
The average number of employees during the year was:   
Management and administration 357 340 
Distribution and marketing 5,950 6,000 
 6,307 6,340 
 
Aggregate employment costs 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Wages and salaries 189.0 188.0 
Social security costs 21.0 22.6 
Share-based payments 2.1 4.0 
Pension costs 12.7 10.5 
 224.8 225.1 
The remuneration of individual Directors is detailed on page 52. 
   72 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
6 Share-based payments 
The Group has a number of share-based incentive plans for employees. These comprise a Deferred Share Bonus Plan awarded to the Group’s 
most senior executives, a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awarding shares to senior managers and a Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme is 
made available to all eligible employees. 
The total charge included in the Income Statement in the year was £2.1m (2012: £4.0m). Of the total charge £2.0m (2012: £2.9m) related  
to equity-settled share schemes and £0.1m (2012: £1.1m) related to cash-settled share schemes. 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
Under the Company’s Deferred Share Bonus Plan, conditional awards of shares are made to plan participants to the value of 50% of their  
cash bonus. The award vests after two years, normally subject to the continued employment of the participant within the Group. There are  
no other performance conditions. A cash payment equivalent to the dividends that would have accrued on the shares will be made to the 
participants on vesting. 
During the year a total of 147,511 shares (2012: 371,628) and 13,750 share equivalent awards paid in cash (2012: 36,719) were conditionally 
awarded to the scheme’s participants. 
Deferred shares relating to the bonus awards to senior managers for the year ended 31 March 2013 will be awarded in June 2013. 
Details of conditional awards of shares and cash entitlements outstanding as at 31 March 2013 are set out below: 
 Number of shares 
 2013 2012 
Shares 519,139 680,402 
Share equivalent awards to be paid in cash 41,887 71,657 
 561,026 752,059 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Under the Group’s LTIP, conditional awards of shares are made to the plan participants. At the vesting date the share award will either vest,  
in full or in part, or lapse. The awards include a right to receive dividend equivalents on vesting. The terms and conditions of the LTIP are such 
that the vesting conditions are based on both the performance of the Group versus the FTSE 250 and growth in earnings per share over the  
life of the scheme as well as, normally, the continued employment of the participant with the Group.  
The fair value of the LTIP awards was calculated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo model based on the assumptions below. 
 
LTIP
2012 
LTIP 
2011 
LTIP
2010 
LTIP
2009 
Options granted 1,606,980 1,495,629 1,693,536 2,675,883 
Fair value at grant date 105.0p 144.0p 117.1p 52.6p 
Assumptions used:     
Share price 226p 274p 222p 141p 
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil Nil 
Expected volatility 32.1% 34.6% 38.3% 37.1% 
Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 
Expected dividend yield 5.10% 7.30% 8.90% 11.40% 
Risk free interest rate 0.20% 1.80% 4.14% 4.20% 
Volatility was estimated based on the historical volatility of the shares over a three-year period up to the date of grant. 
   Financial statements
73  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
6 Share-based payments continued 
Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes 
The SAYE schemes are available to the majority of employees of the Group. The option price is based on the average market price of the 
Company’s shares over the three days prior to the offer, discounted by 20%. The option exercise conditions are the employees’ continued 
employment for a three-year period and the continued payment of regular monthly savings by the employees. Failure of either of these 
conditions is normally deemed a forfeiture of the option. At the end of the period the employee has six months to either purchase the shares  
at the agreed price, or withdraw their savings with the accrued interest, if applicable. There are no market conditions attached to the vesting  
of the options. 
Equity-settled options 
SAYE 
3 yr 
2012 
SAYE
5 yr
2012 
SAYE
3 yr
2011 
SAYE
5 yr
2011 
SAYE
3 yr
2010 
SAYE 
5 yr 
2010 
SAYE 
3 yr 
2009 
SAYE
5 yr
2009 
SAYE
5 yr
2008 
Options granted 1,223,209 466,184 660,883 299,559 595,181 370,029 568,506 249,009 997,559 
Fair value at grant date 40.2p 37.1p 47.5p 45.0p 57.6p 52.5p 21.8p 19.6p 17.5p 
Assumptions used:          
Share price 201p 201p 269p 269p 217p 217p 141p 141p 141p 
Exercise price 164p 164p 235p 235p 175p 175p 149p 149p 131p 
Expected volatility 32.10% 36.10% 34.6% 33.1% 38.3% 32.9% 37.1% 32.4% 27.2% 
Expected option life 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years 5 years 
Expected dividend yield 5.50% 5.50% 4.30% 4.30% 6.20% 6.20% 7.80% 7.80% 9.00% 
Risk-free interest rate 0.16% 0.40% 1.40% 2.16% 4.27% 4.27% 4.20% 4.20% 5.10% 
Volatility was estimated based on the historical volatility of the shares over a three or five-year period, as appropriate, up to the date of grant. 
Number and weighted average exercise price of share options (equity and cash-settled) 
In thousands of options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2013 
Number  
of options  
2013 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
2012 
Number 
of options 
2012 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 66p 9,124 65p 9,329 
Forfeited during the year 187p (73) 2p (369)
Lapsed during the year 106p (1,721) 103p (1,618)
Exercised during the year 43p (1,637) 88p (1,282)
Granted during the year 86p 4,868 89p 3,064 
Outstanding at the end of the year 71p 10,561 66p 9,124 
Exercisable at the end of the year 241p 1 149p 154 
The options outstanding at 31 March 2013 have an exercise price in the range 0p to 235p and a weighted average contractual life of 3.2 years. 
In thousands of options  2013 2012 
Option prices   
£nil-£1.00 6,159 5,836 
£1.00-£2.00 3,783 2,134 
£2.00-£3.00 619 1,154 
 10,561 9,124 
 
   74 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
7 Pension schemes 
The funding of the UK defined benefit scheme is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. The net UK pension costs 
for the year ended 31 March 2013 amounted to £1.4m (2012: £nil). The contributions paid by the Group to the defined contribution section of 
the scheme amounted to £4.7m (2012: £4.2m). 
The rules of the UK Electrocomponents Group Pension scheme give the Trustee powers to wind up the scheme, which it may exercise if the 
Trustee is aware that the assets of the scheme are insufficient to meet its liabilities. Although the scheme is currently in deficit on a statutory 
funding basis, the Trustee and the Company have agreed a plan to eliminate the deficit over time and the Trustee has confirmed as at 24 April 
2013 that it has no current intention of exercising its power to wind up the scheme. 
The costs of the defined benefit pension schemes in Germany and Republic of Ireland were £0.4m (2012: £0.4m). The costs of the defined 
contribution schemes in Australia, North America, Germany and Republic of Ireland were £2.2m (2012: £2.1m), and those via government 
schemes in France, Italy, Scandinavia and North Asia were £4.1m (2012: £3.8m).  
The Group expects to pay £5.0m to its UK defined benefit pension scheme in the year ending 31 March 2014. 
The principal assumptions used in the valuations of the liabilities of the Group’s schemes were: 
 
2013 
United 
Kingdom 
2013 
Germany 
2013 
Republic of 
Ireland 
2012  
UK 
2012 
Germany 
2012 
Republic of 
Ireland 
Discount rate 4.40% 4.00% 4.00% 5.00% 3.75% 3.75% 
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.55% 2.50% 2.00% 2.55% 3.00% 3.00% 
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.20% 2.00% 2.00% 3.10% 2.00% 2.00% 
Inflation assumption 3.30% 2.00% 2.00% 3.20% 2.00% 2.00% 
The assumption on the rate of increase of pensionable salaries in the UK scheme has been restricted. This is due to the introduction of salary 
capping entitlement arrangements with respect to the defined benefit pension scheme in June 2008. 
The expected long-term rates of return on the schemes’ assets were: 
 
2013 
United 
Kingdom 
2013 
Germany 
2013 
Republic of 
Ireland 
2012  
UK 
2012 
Germany 
2012 
Republic of 
Ireland 
Equities 7.60% n/a 7.00% 7.40% n/a 7.50% 
Corporate bonds 4.60% n/a 4.00% 5.00% n/a n/a 
Government bonds 2.60% n/a n/a 3.90% n/a 4.00% 
Diversified growth funds 7.00% n/a n/a 6.90% n/a n/a 
Enhanced matching funds n/a n/a n/a 3.80% n/a n/a 
Matching plus funds 2.50% n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 
Credit funds 6.50% n/a n/a 6.50% n/a n/a 
Cash 0.00% n/a n/a 0.00% n/a n/a 
Other n/a n/a 2.00% n/a n/a 3.50% 
The expected return for each asset class is based on a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the 
financial markets (as indicated by available yields) and the views of investment organisations. 
   Financial statements
75  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
7 Pension schemes continued 
Based upon the demographics of scheme members, the weighted average life expectancy assumptions used to determine benefit  
obligations were: 
 
2013 
UK 
Years 
2013 
Germany 
Years 
2013  
Republic of 
Ireland  
Years 
2012  
UK  
Years 
2012 
Germany 
Years 
2012 
Republic of 
Ireland 
Years 
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) – male 21.3 18.7 22.5 21.2 18.8 22.3 
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) – female 23.3 22.8 23.9 23.2 22.9 23.7 
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at aged 65) – male 23.5 22.0 25.5 23.4 22.1 25.4 
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at aged 65) – female 25.9 25.9 26.4 25.8 26.1 26.4 
The net costs recognised in the Income Statement were: 
 
2013
 UK
£m 
2013 
Germany
£m 
2013 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2013 
Total
£m 
2012 
 UK 
£m 
2012  
Germany 
£m 
2012 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2012 
Total
£m 
Current service cost 5.3  – 0.1 5.4 4.4  –  0.1 4.5 
Interest cost 16.7 0.3 0.2 17.2 16.3 0.2 0.2 16.7 
Expected return on scheme assets (20.6) – (0.2) (20.8) (20.7)  –  (0.1) (20.8)
Total Income Statement charge 1.4 0.3 0.1 1.8  –  0.2 0.2 0.4 
Of the net cost for the year, a charge of £0.3m (2012: £nil) has been included in administrative expenses and a charge of £1.5m (2012: £0.4m) 
in distribution and marketing expenses. 
The actual gain on scheme assets was: UK £42.8m (2012: £27.3m), Germany £nil (2012: £nil) and Republic of Ireland £0.4m (2012: £0.1m). 
The valuation of the assets of the schemes as at 31 March were: 
 
2013
 UK
£m 
2013 
Germany
£m 
2013 
Republic  
of Ireland 
£m 
2012 
 UK 
£m 
2012 
Germany
£m 
2012 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
Equities 95.7 n/a 2.4 91.1 n/a 2.1 
Corporate bonds 23.1 n/a 1.4 20.4 n/a 1.2 
Government bonds 44.1 n/a n/a 40.2 n/a n/a 
Diversified growth funds 158.7 n/a n/a 146.4 n/a n/a 
Credit funds 14.6 n/a n/a 13.5 n/a n/a 
Matching plus funds 47.3 n/a n/a 33.9 n/a n/a 
Cash 0.8 n/a n/a 0.7 n/a n/a 
Other n/a n/a 0.1 n/a n/a  – 
Total market value of scheme assets 384.3  n/a 3.9 346.2  n/a 3.3 
No amount is included in the market value of assets relating to either financial instruments or property occupied by the Group. 
The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension schemes were: 
 
2013
 UK
£m 
2013 
Germany
£m 
2013 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2013 
Total
£m 
2012 
 UK 
£m 
2012  
Germany 
£m 
2012 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2012 
Total
£m 
Total market value of assets 384.3  – 3.9 388.2 346.2  –  3.3 349.5 
Present value of scheme liabilities (396.7) (5.7) (4.8) (407.2) (335.6) (5.8) (5.1) (346.5)
Schemes’ (deficit) surplus (12.4) (5.7) (0.9) (19.0) 10.6 (5.8) (1.8) 3.0 
Unrecognised pension surplus  –  –  –  – (11.3)  –   – (11.3)
Schemes’ adjusted deficit (12.4) (5.7) (0.9) (19.0) (0.7) (5.8) (1.8) (8.3)
   76 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
7 Pension schemes continued 
As at 31 March 2013 the UK defined benefit pension scheme reported a deficit of £12.4m (2012: surplus of £10.6m). In accordance with the 
requirements of IAS 19 (Employee benefits) and IFRIC 14, the Company did not recognise the pension surplus in its 2012 financial statements. 
The movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current period was: 
  
2013
 UK
£m 
2013 
Germany
£m 
2013 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2013 
Total
£m 
2012 
 UK 
£m 
2012  
Germany 
£m 
2012 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2012 
Total
£m 
Present value of the defined benefit 
obligations at the beginning of the year 335.6 5.8 5.1 346.5 297.9 4.8 3.7 306.4 
Movement in year:         
Current service cost 5.3  – 0.1 5.4 4.4  –  0.1 4.5 
Interest cost 16.7 0.3 0.2 17.2 16.3 0.2 0.2 16.7 
Actuarial loss (gain) 48.9 (0.3) (0.7) 47.9 25.8 1.2 1.3 28.3 
Benefits paid (9.8) (0.1) – (9.9) (8.8) (0.1)  – (8.9)
Exchange differences  –  – 0.1 0.1  –  (0.3) (0.2) (0.5)
Present value of the defined benefit 
obligations at the end of the year 396.7 5.7 4.8 407.2 335.6 5.8 5.1 346.5 
The movement in present value of the fair value of scheme assets in the current period was: 
 
2013
 UK
£m 
2013 
Germany
£m 
2013 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2013 
Total
£m 
2012 
 UK 
£m 
2012  
Germany 
£m 
2012 
Republic 
of Ireland
£m 
2012 
Total
£m 
Present value of the fair value of scheme 
assets at the beginning of the year 346.2  – 3.3 349.5 322.8  –  3.3 326.1 
Movement in year:         
Expected return on scheme assets 20.6  – 0.2 20.8 20.7  –  0.1 20.8 
Actuarial gain (loss) 22.2  – 0.2 22.4 6.6  –  (0.1) 6.5 
Contributions by Company 5.1 0.1 0.2 5.4 4.9 0.1 0.2 5.2 
Benefits paid (9.8) (0.1) – (9.9) (8.8) (0.1)  – (8.9)
Exchange differences  –  –  –  –  –   –  (0.2) (0.2)
Present value of the fair value of scheme 
assets at the end of the year 384.3  – 3.9 388.2 346.2  –  3.3 349.5 
Experience adjustments were: 
 
2013 
UK 
2013 
Germany 
2013 
Republic  
of Ireland 
2012  
UK 
2012 
Germany 
2012 
Republic 
of Ireland 
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 5.8% n/a 4.9% 1.9% n/a  (2.7%)
Experience (gains) losses on scheme liabilities  – 1.1% 1.9%  –   (0.3%) 0.1% 
The cumulative amount of actuarial loss recognised is £16.5m (2012: gain of £9.0m). 
In addition, the value of the assets held by external Additional Voluntary Contribution’s amounted to £0.1m as at 31 March 2013 (2012: £0.1m). 
The value of the assets held externally in relation to the defined contribution section of the UK scheme amounted to £26.7m as at 31 March 
2013 (2012: £19.8m). 
   Financial statements
77  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
7 Pension schemes continued 
Experience adjustments over the last five years in relation to the UK scheme were as follows: 
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Actual less expected return on scheme assets (£m) 22.2 6.6 3.6  54.1 (52.5)
As a % of scheme assets 5.8% 1.9% 1.1% 17.8% (21.8)% 
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities (£m)  –  –  (5.4)  –  (5.3)
As a % of scheme liabilities 0.0% 0.0% (1.8)% 0.0% (2.1)% 
Actuarial (loss) gain recognised in the statement of total 
recognised gains and losses (£m) (26.7) (19.2) 31.0  (5.5) (4.1)
As a % of scheme liabilities 6.7% 5.7% 10.4% (1.7)% (1.7)% 
Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key IAS 19 assumptions 
The following analysis estimates the impact of various assumption changes on the UK defined benefit pension obligation, whilst holding all 
other assumptions constant. 
Effect on obligation of a 0.1% increase to the assumed discount rate Liabilities reduce by £7.9m 
Effect on obligation of a 0.1% increase to the assumed inflation rate Liabilities increase by £6.0m 
Effect on obligation of an assumed increase in one year’s life expectancy Liabilities increase by £10.4m 
8 Income tax expense 
Taxation on the profit of the Group 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
United Kingdom corporation tax at 24% (2012: 26%) 12.8 10.6 
United Kingdom deferred taxation (1.3) 1.7 
 11.5 12.3 
Overseas current taxation 10.9 12.4 
Overseas deferred taxation 6.0 12.7 
Total income tax expense in Income Statement  28.4 37.4 
Total tax expense is reconciled to a notional 24% (2012: 26%) of profit before taxation as follows: 
   
Expected tax charge 21.9 31.8 
Differences in overseas corporation tax rates 5.7 5.5 
Utilisation of tax losses¹ (0.6) (0.9)
Items not (taxable) deductible for tax purposes  (0.5) 0.5 
Other local taxes suffered overseas  1.2 1.4 
Under (over) provision in prior years 0.7 (0.9)
 28.4 37.4 
1 Tax losses refer to losses not previously recognised within deferred tax assets 
   78 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
8 Income tax expense continued 
Tax (income) expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Recognised in retained earnings   
Relating to actuarial losses (2.8) (1.8)
Recognised in the hedging reserve  
Relating to (loss) gain on cash flow hedges (0.4) 0.4 
Recognised in the cumulative translation reserve  
Relating to (loss) gain on net investment hedges (1.0) 0.2 
 (4.2) (1.2)
   
Tax recognised directly in equity   
Relating to equity-settled transactions 0.5  – 
The 2013 Budget on 20 March 2013 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 2015. A reduction to 23% (effective 
from 1 April 2013) was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012. This will apply to the Company’s future tax charge. In line with this change the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 24% to 23% creating a rate adjustment, which is partly reflected 
by a benefit to the Group income statement (£0.1m), and partly in a benefit to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (£0.1m). 
Accordingly both recognised and unrecognised UK deferred tax balances as at 31 March 2013 have been calculated at a rate of 23%. 
The further reduction in rate from 23% to 20% has not yet been substantively enacted. If this reduction had been substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, the effect would have been to reduce the net deferred tax liability by £0.5m. Of this reduction, it is estimated that £0.5m 
would be credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
Deferred taxation balances are analysed in note 21. 
9 Dividends 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts recognised in the period:   
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 – 6.75p (2011: 6.5p) 29.5 28.3 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 – 5.0p (2012: 5.0p) 21.8 21.8 
 51.3 50.1 
Proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 – 6.75p 29.5  
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2013 and has not been included  
as a liability in these accounts. 
10 Earnings per share 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company 62.9 84.9 
Reorganisation costs 7.4 – 
Tax impact of reorganisation costs (1.7) – 
Headline profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company 68.6 84.9 
   
Weighted average number of shares 437,818,646 436,115,083 
Dilutive effect of share options 2,047,772 3,077,146 
Diluted weighted average number of shares 439,866,418 439,192,229 
 Pence Pence 
Basic earnings per share 14.4 19.5 
Diluted earnings per share 14.3 19.3 
Headline basic earnings per share 15.7 19.5 
Headline diluted earnings per share 15.6 19.3 
There were 1,104,306 (2012: 963,097) further share options outstanding as at 31 March 2013 that were anti-dilutive.  
   Financial statements
79  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
11 Intangible assets 
Cost 
Goodwill
£m 
Software 
£m 
Other 
intangibles
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2011 163.7 138.2 0.3 302.2 
Additions  – 17.1  – 17.1 
Disposals  – (0.5)  – (0.5)
Translation differences  – (1.0)  – (1.0)
At 1 April 2012 163.7 153.8 0.3 317.8 
Additions  – 24.4  – 24.4 
Disposals  – (2.1)  – (2.1)
Translation differences 8.5 0.9  – 9.4 
At 31 March 2013 172.2 177.0 0.3 349.5 
Amortisation     
At 1 April 2011  – 99.5 0.1 99.6 
Charged in the year  – 15.2 0.1 15.3 
Disposals – (0.4)  – (0.4)
Translation differences  – (0.8)  – (0.8)
At 1 April 2012  – 113.5 0.2 113.7 
Charged in the year  – 13.7  – 13.7 
Disposals  – (1.7)  – (1.7)
Translation differences – 0.3  – 0.3 
At 31 March 2013  – 125.8 0.2 126.0 
Net book value     
At 31 March 2013 172.2 51.2 0.1 223.5 
At 31 March 2012 163.7 40.3 0.1 204.1 
At 31 March 2011 163.7 38.7 0.2 202.6 
Of total goodwill of £172.2m (2012: £163.7m), £171.6m (2012: £163.1m) related to the acquisition of Allied Electronics Inc. in July 1999,  
and £0.6m (2012: £0.6m) related to the acquisition of the Group’s Norwegian distributor in September 2001. 
Value in use calculations  
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value in use calculations. 
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on actual operating results together with management projections for five 
years. These cash flows are based on extrapolations from earlier budgets and forecasts. These are subject to assessing the reasonableness  
of the assumptions; for example by examining the causes of differences between past cash flow projections and actual cash flows. 
Cash flows for further periods, i.e. beyond five years, are extrapolated using a long-term annual growth rate of 2% (2012: 2%) which is 
consistent with the prudent ‘market estimate’ long-term average growth rate for the distribution industry. 
A pre-tax discount rate of 8.4% (2012: 9.0%) has been applied in calculating the discounted projected cash flows. 
Key assumptions 
The key assumptions used are the sales growth rate and discount rate. 
The sales growth rate is prepared using internal forecasts based upon historical growth rates and future medium-term plans together with 
relevant macro economic indicators. The long-term growth rates used are consistent with the prudent ‘market estimate’ long-term average 
growth rates for the industry and do not exceed expected long-term GDP growth. 
The discount rate is based upon the Group’s Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) at 31 March 2013 and has been calculated reflecting 
market assessments at that time. 
The Directors believe that currently all ‘reasonably likely’ changes in the key assumptions referred to above would not give rise to an impairment charge. 
Outcome of calculations 
The recoverable amount of the Allied Electronics Inc. cash generating unit exceeds its carrying value and the carrying value of the goodwill is 
therefore not impaired. 
   80 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
12 Property, plant and equipment 
Cost 
Land and 
buildings
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Computer 
systems
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2011 112.5 125.7 70.0 308.2 
Additions 0.8 7.6 12.3 20.7 
Disposals (0.2) (1.5) (1.5) (3.2)
Translation differences (2.2) (1.4) (0.5) (4.1)
At 1 April 2012 110.9 130.4 80.3 321.6 
Additions 0.2 4.1  – 4.3 
Disposals  – (1.5) (2.6) (4.1)
Translation differences 1.5 0.8 0.5 2.8 
At 31 March 2013 112.6 133.8 78.2 324.6 
Depreciation     
At 1 April 2011 32.2 103.4 58.5 194.1 
Charged in the year 2.2 5.9 4.5 12.6 
Disposals (0.1) (1.4) (1.0) (2.5)
Translation differences (0.4) (1.3) (0.4) (2.1)
At 1 April 2012 33.9 106.6 61.6 202.1 
Charged in the year 2.2 5.6 4.4 12.2 
Disposals  – (1.3) (1.8) (3.1)
Translation differences 0.3 0.6 0.4 1.3 
At 31 March 2013 36.4 111.5 64.6 212.5 
Net book value     
At 31 March 2013 76.2 22.3 13.6 112.1 
At 31 March 2012 77.0 23.8 18.7 119.5 
At 31 March 2011 80.3 22.3 11.5 114.1 
 
Net book value of land and buildings 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Freehold land 12.3 12.1 
Freehold buildings 60.0 61.2 
Long leasehold buildings 0.4 0.3 
Short leasehold buildings 3.5 3.4 
  76.2 77.0 
   
Net book value of plant and machinery   
Plant and machinery 21.1 21.6 
Other office equipment 1.0 1.6 
Motor vehicles 0.2 0.6 
 22.3 23.8 
All classes of tangible assets are depreciated except for freehold land. 
13 Capital commitments 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Contracted capital expenditure at 31 March, for which no provision has been made in these accounts 1.6  – 
14 Investments 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Jointly controlled entity 0.6 0.6 
For details of the jointly controlled entity, see note 15 to the Group accounts. 
   Financial statements
81  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
15 Principal subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings  
 Principal location Country of incorporation 
High service distribution of electronics and maintenance products   
RS Components Pty Limited*  Sydney Australia 
RS Components Handelsges.m.b.H.*  Gmünd Austria 
Allied Electronics (Canada) Inc.*  Ottawa Canada 
RS Componentes Electrónicos Limitada* Santiago Chile 
RS Components A/S* Copenhagen Denmark 
RS Composants SAS*  Beauvais France 
RS Components GmbH*  Frankfurt Germany 
RS Components Limited*  Kowloon Hong Kong 
RS Components & Controls (India) Limited†  New Delhi India 
RS Components SpA*  Milan Italy 
RS Components KK*  Yokohama Japan 
RS Components Sdn Bhd*  Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 
RS Components BV*  Haarlem Netherlands 
RS Components Limited*  Auckland New Zealand 
RS Components AS*  Haugesund  Norway 
RS Components (Shanghai) Company Limited*  Shanghai People’s Republic of China 
RS Components Sp. Z.o.o.* Warsaw Poland 
Radionics Limited*  Dublin Republic of Ireland 
RS Components Pte Limited*  Singapore Singapore 
Amidata SAu*  Madrid Spain 
RS Components AB*  Vällingby Sweden 
RS Components Company Limited* Bangkok Thailand 
RS Components Limited  Corby UK 
Allied Electronics Inc.*  Fort Worth, TX United States of America 
RS Components Corporation* Manilla Philippines 
Holding and Management Companies   
Electrocomponents France SARL* Beauvais France 
Electrocomponents UK Limited  Oxford UK 
RS Components Holdings Limited* Oxford UK 
Electrocomponents North America Inc.* Laytonsville, MD United States of America 
Except as stated below all of the above are wholly owned by Electrocomponents plc. Those companies marked with an asterisk are indirectly 
owned. The companies operate within their countries of incorporation. RS Components Limited (UK) exports to most countries where the 
Group does not have a trading company and operates branch offices in Japan, South Africa, Taiwan, and the Philippines. RS Components 
Limited also operates under the names of RS Calibration, RS Mechanical and RS Health & Safety in the UK. 
† RS Components & Controls (India) Limited (RSCC) is a jointly controlled entity with Controls & Switchgear Company Limited, a company 
registered in India. The authorised share capital of this company is INR20m, of which INR18m is issued and owned in equal shares by 
Electrocomponents UK Limited and its partner. RS Components Limited supplies products to RSCC, while office space and distribution 
network are provided by Controls & Switchgear. During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group made sales of £0.7m (2012: £0.9m)  
to RSCC. RSCC is accounted for using the equity accounting method. 
A full list of subsidiary companies is available from the Company’s registered office. 
16 Inventories 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Gross inventories value: 
 
 
Raw materials and consumables 52.8 48.1 
Finished goods and goods for resale 240.9 234.1 
 293.7 282.2 
Stock provisions (31.8) (23.8)
 Total net inventories 261.9 258.4 
During the year £11.9m (2012: £11.9m) was recognised as an expense relating to the write down of inventory to net realisable value. 
   82 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
17 Trade and other receivables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Gross trade receivables 208.0 206.3 
Provision for doubtful debts (5.4) (4.7)
Amounts owed by jointly controlled entity 0.2 0.6 
Derivative assets (see note 20) 1.3 1.3 
Other receivables 4.3 4.7 
Prepayments and accrued income 12.7 12.6 
Trade and other receivables falling due within one year 221.1 220.8 
   
Other receivables falling due after more than one year 7.1 7.0 
18 Trade and other payables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Trade payables  120.8 137.3 
Other taxation and social security  12.8 13.2 
Derivative liabilities (see note 20) 1.7 0.9 
Other payables  3.0 3.8 
Government grants  0.1 0.2 
Accruals and deferred income  56.4 56.9 
Trade and other payables due within one year 194.8 212.3 
Other payables  7.9 6.7 
Government grants  3.9 4.0 
Other payables due in more than one year 11.8 10.7 
 
   Financial statements
83  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
19 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Non-current liabilities:   
Unsecured bank facilities 62.2 80.3 
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.1 
Unsecured Private Placement Notes 105.8 99.8 
 168.7 180.2 
Current liabilities:   
Unsecured bank overdrafts 10.7 1.2 
Unsecured bank loans – 0.2 
Finance lease liabilities 1.4 – 
  12.1 1.4 
Borrowings are repayable as follows:   
Amounts falling due on demand or in less than one year 12.1 1.4 
In more than one but not more than two years 0.7 0.1 
In more than two but not more than three years 105.5 – 
In more than three but not more than four years – 121.5 
In more than four but not more than five years 62.5 – 
In more than five years – 58.6 
  180.8 181.6 
 
Borrowings are analysed by currency as: 
Sterling
2013
£m 
US Dollar
2013
£m 
Euro 
2013 
£m 
Other
2013
£m 
Total
2013
£m 
Unsecured bank overdrafts 8.7  – 0.7 1.3 10.7 
Unsecured bank facilities 24.6 26.3 7.6 3.7 62.2 
Unsecured bank loans  –  –  –   –  – 
Finance lease liabilities 2.1  –  –   – 2.1 
Unsecured Private Placement Notes  – 105.8  –   – 105.8 
Total borrowings 35.4 132.1 8.3 5.0 180.8 
 
Borrowings are analysed by currency as: 
Sterling
2012
£m 
US Dollar
2012
£m 
Euro 
2012 
£m 
Other
2012
£m 
Total
2012
£m 
Unsecured bank overdrafts  –  –  –  1.2 1.2 
Unsecured bank facilities 20.0 31.3 25.0 4.0 80.3 
Unsecured bank loans  – 0.2  –   – 0.2 
Finance lease liabilities  – 0.1  –   – 0.1 
Unsecured Private Placement Notes  – 99.8  –   – 99.8 
Total borrowings 20.0 131.4 25.0 5.2 181.6 
 
   84 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
20 Financial instruments 
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: 
None of the financial assets or financial liabilities have been reclassified during the year. 
 Notes 
Valuation 
methodology 
Carrying value
£m 
Fair value
£m 
Financial assets     
Financial assets held at fair value     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  A 11.8 11.8 
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 17 A 1.3 1.3 
   13.1 13.1 
Financial assets held at amortised cost     
Cash and cash equivalents 25 D 9.3 9.3 
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 17 F 217.3 217.3 
   226.6 226.6 
Total financial assets at 31 March 2013   239.7 239.7 
 
Financial liabilities     
Financial liabilities held at fair value     
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 18 A (1.7) (1.7)
Private Placement Notes 19 C (72.9) (72.9)
   (74.6) (74.6)
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost     
Bank facilities 19 D (62.2) (62.2)
Private Placement Notes 19 D (32.9) (35.4)
Finance lease liabilities 19 E (2.1) (2.1)
Bank overdrafts 19 D (10.7) (10.7)
Trade payables, other payables and accruals 18 F (210.4) (210.4)
   (318.3) (320.8)
Total financial liabilities at 31 March 2013   (392.9) (395.4)
 
   Financial statements
85  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
 Notes 
Valuation 
methodology 
Carrying value
£m 
Fair value
£m 
Financial assets     
Financial assets held at fair value     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  A 7.7 7.7 
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 17 A 1.3 1.3 
   9.0 9.0 
Financial assets held at amortised cost     
Cash and cash equivalents 25 D 19.8 19.8 
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 17 F 214.1 214.1 
   233.9 233.9 
Total financial assets at 31 March 2012   242.9 242.9 
     
Financial liabilities     
Financial liabilities held at fair value     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  A (0.1) (0.1)
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 18 A (0.9) (0.9)
Private Placement Notes 19 C (68.5) (68.5)
   (69.5) (69.5)
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost     
Bank facilities 19 D (80.5) (80.5)
Private Placement Notes 19 D (31.3) (33.0)
Finance lease liabilities 19 E (0.1) (0.1)
Bank overdrafts 19 D (1.2) (1.2)
Trade payables, other payables and accruals 18 F (224.9) (224.9)
   (338.0) (339.7)
Total financial liabilities at 31 March 2012   (407.5) (409.2)
Estimation of fair values 
The fair values reflected in the table above have been determined by reference to available market information at the balance sheet date and 
using the methodologies described below. 
A Derivative financial assets and liabilities 
Fair values are estimated by discounting expected future contractual cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves and valuing any amounts 
denominated in foreign currencies at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. These financial instruments are included on  
the balance sheet at fair value, derived from observable market prices (Level 2 as defined by IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures). 
B Interest-bearing loans held at fair value 
These comprise sterling and foreign currency denominated interest bearing loans which are subject to hedge accounting. The foreign  
currency amounts have been valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date (Level 2 as defined by IFRS7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures). 
C Loans designated under fair value hedge relationships 
These comprise Sterling and foreign currency denominated interest-bearing loans which are subject to hedge accounting. The foreign  
currency amounts have been valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. These loans have been designated under  
fair value hedge relationships. 
D Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, interest-bearing loans held at amortised cost 
Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise local bank account balances, which typically bear interest at rates set by reference to local 
applicable rates or cash float balances which have not yet cleared for interest purposes. Fair values are estimated to equate to carrying 
amounts as their repricing maturity is less than one year. 
Interest-bearing loans held at amortised cost comprise fixed rate sterling and foreign currency denominated loans. For carrying values the 
foreign currency principal amounts have been valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Fair values are estimated  
by discounting future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. 
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and are all unsecured. They bear interest at rates set by reference to applicable local rates.  
Fair values are estimated to equate to carrying amounts as their repricing maturity is less than one year. 
E Finance lease liabilities 
Fair values are estimated by discounting future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. 
F Other financial assets and liabilities 
Fair values of receivables and payables are determined by discounting future cash flows. For amounts with a repricing maturity of less than  
one year, fair value is assumed to approximate to the carrying amount.  86 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
Risk management objectives and policies 
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of liquidity, market and credit. Each of these are managed in accordance 
with Board approved policies. The policies are set out below. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s key priority is to ensure that it can meet its liabilities as they fall due. The Group ensures this by having sufficient committed debt 
facilities in place to meet its anticipated funding requirements. The Group’s forecast funding requirements and its committed debt facilities are 
reported to and monitored by the Treasury Committee monthly. 
As at 31 March 2013 the Group had the following committed debt finance in place: 
• Private Placement Notes of $150m with maturities of June 2015 and June 2017 
• A syndicated multicurrency facility for $75m, £120m and €50m with a maturity of November 2015 
As at 31 March 2013 the Group had available £149.2m of undrawn committed debt facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent  
had been met. 
The Group also uses bank overdrafts, uncommitted short-term money market loans, cash and short-term investments. The main purpose  
of these financial instruments is to manage the Group’s day-to-day funding and liquidity requirements. 
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including contractual future interest payments. 
Maturity profile of financial liabilities 
 
Carrying 
amounts
£m 
Contractual 
cash flows
£m 
Within
1 year
£m 
1-2
years
£m 
2-3 
years 
£m 
3-4 
years 
£m 
4-5
 years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Derivative financial liabilities         
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  –  –  –  –  –   –   –  – 
Forward exchange rate contracts used  
for hedging (1.7) (1.7) (1.7) –  –   –   –  – 
Non-derivative financial liabilities         
Bank loans (62.2) (64.8) (0.9) (0.9) (63.0)  –   –  – 
Private Placement Notes (105.8) (116.5) (4.8) (4.8) (46.6) (2.9) (57.4) – 
Finance lease liabilities (2.1) (2.1) (1.4) (0.7) –   –   –  – 
Bank overdrafts (10.7) (10.7) (10.7) –  –   –   –  – 
Trade payables, other payables and accruals* (210.4) (210.4) (207.2) (3.2) –   –   –  – 
At 31 March 2013 (392.9 ) (406.2) (226.7) (9.6) (109.6) (2.9) (57.4) – 
         
 
Carrying 
amounts
£m 
Contractual 
cash flows
£m 
Within
1 year
£m 
1-2
years
£m 
2-3 
years 
£m 
3-4 
years 
£m 
4-5
 years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Derivative financial liabilities   
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) –  –   –   –  – 
Forward exchange rate contracts used  
for hedging (0.9) (0.9) (0.9) –  –   –   –  – 
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Bank loans (80.5) (84.5) (1.3) (1.1) (1.1) (81.0)  –  – 
Private Placement Notes (99.8) (115.6) (4.5) (4.5) (4.5) (44.5) (2.7) (54.9)
Finance lease liabilities (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1) –   –   –  – 
Bank overdrafts (1.2) (1.2) (1.2) –  –   –   –  – 
Trade payables, other payables and accruals* (224.9) (224.9) (222.5) (2.4) –   –   –  – 
At 31 March 2012 (407.5) (427.3) (230.5) (8.1) (5.6) (125.5) (2.7) (54.9)
* Excludes derivatives which are shown separately 
   Financial statements
87  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
Market risk 
Foreign currency transactional risk 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency transaction risk because most operating companies have some level of payables in currencies other 
than their functional currency. Some operating companies also have receivables in currencies other than their functional currency. 
Hedging of currency exposures during periods when operating companies cannot easily change their selling prices is implemented in order  
to ‘shelter’ the forecast gross profits during those periods. In this way the impacts of currency fluctuations can be smoothed until selling prices 
can be changed in the light of movements in exchange rates. The hedges are enacted through forward foreign currency contracts entered into 
by Group Treasury based on trading projections provided by the operating companies. The Group’s largest exposures relate to Euros and  
US Dollars. As at 31 March 2013 net forecast exposures in Euros and US Dollars for the first six months (Euros) and first three months  
(US Dollars) of the year ending 31 March 2014 were 100% hedged. 
In addition specific cash flows relating to material transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the local business are hedged 
when the commitment is made. 
The Group classifies forward exchange contracts as hedging instruments against forecast receivables/payables and designates them as cash 
flow hedges for accounting purposes. The forecast cash flows are expected to occur evenly throughout the period for 12 months from the  
year end, and will affect the income statement in the period in which they occur. The net fair value of forward exchange contracts not used  
as hedges of forecast transactions as at 31 March 2013 was £Nil (2012: £Nil). 
Foreign currency transaction exposures, and the hedges in place to mitigate them, are monitored monthly by the Treasury Committee. 
The Group does not believe its foreign currency transactional risk has materially altered during the year. 
Foreign currency translational risk 
During the year ended 31 March 2010 the Group issued $37.5m of Private Placement Notes with maturities of June 2015 and June 2017 and, 
using cross-currency interest rate swaps, swapped $36.25m to £22.5m at a floating interest rate. 
In June 2010 the Group issued a further $112.5m of Private Placement Notes with maturities of June 2015 and June 2017 and, using cross-
currency interest rate swaps, swapped $63.75m into a combination of £14.8m and €28.3m at floating interest rates. 
These cross-currency interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges and are expected to remain highly effective over the life of the 
Private Placement Notes. 
The Group has designated certain external loans as net investment hedges against its investments in its US and European subsidiaries. 
The carrying amount of the US hedge as at 31 March 2013 was $110m (£72.4m), of which $40m (£26.3m) formed part of the unsecured bank 
facility, $50m (£32.9m) was from the US Private Placement market and $20m (£13.2m) was in the form of an overdraft. The carrying amount  
of the Euro hedge was €32.7m (£31.5m), of which €9m (£7.6m) formed part of the unsecured bank facility and €23.7m (£19.9m) was in the 
form of an overdraft. Both the US Dollar and Euro overdrafts are shown in the balance sheet netted with positive cash balances, as there is  
an absolute right of set-off. 
The carrying value of these US Dollar and Euro hedges remained highly effective, throughout the year ended 31 March 2013. 
A foreign exchange loss of £2.8m (2012: gain of £3.4m) was recognised in equity on translation of the loans to Sterling in the year ended  
31 March 2013. 
No other foreign currency translation exposures are explicitly hedged although local currency debt is used where economic and fiscally efficient 
in the financing of subsidiaries and this provides a degree of natural hedging. Guidelines are in place to manage the currency mix of the Group’s 
net debt. The Group does not believe its foreign currency translational risk has materially altered during the year. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group has relatively high interest cover and therefore the Group adopts a policy of paying and receiving most of its interest on a variable 
interest rate basis, as in the opinion of the Group this minimises interest cost over time. This policy is subject to regular monitoring of the 
effect of potential changes in interest rates on its interest cost with a view to taking suitable actions should exposure reach certain levels.  
The Group does not believe its interest rate risk has materially altered during the year. 
As at 31 March 2013 the Group had: 
• Fixed the interest on $40m borrowings from its syndicated bank facility until June 2013 using an interest rate swap designated as a cash  
flow hedge 
• Left $50m of its Private Placement Notes fixed until June 2015 
• Swapped $100m of its Private Placement Notes from US Dollar fixed to Sterling floating ($60m) and Euro floating ($40m) using an interest 
rate swap. This is designated as a fair value hedge 
 All other borrowings were at a variable rate. 
   88 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
Interest rate profile 
The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments, as at 31 March 2013 and as at 31 March 2012, are set out below. 
The classification and balances include the impact of the interest rate swaps. 
 
2013 2012 
 
Fixed rate
£m 
Floating rate
£m 
Total
£m 
Fixed rate 
£m 
Floating rate
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial liabilities       
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings       
Current (1.4) (10.7) (12.1) (0.2) (1.2) (1.4)
Non-current (59.9) (97.0) (156.9) (56.4) (116.2) (172.6)
At 31 March (61.3) (107.7) (169.0) (56.6) (117.4) (174.0)
Financial assets       
Cash and cash equivalents  – 9.3 9.3  –  19.8 19.8 
At 31 March  – 9.3 9.3  –  19.8 19.8 
       
Cash flow hedges      £m 
Fair value of hedging instruments under cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2011:    
Assets      0.5 
Liabilities      (2.2)
Net      (1.7)
       
In the year ended 31 March 2012:       
Amount removed from equity and taken to Income Statement in operating profit   1.7 
Fair value of cash flow hedges taken to equity      0.3 
       
Fair value of hedging instruments under cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2012:    
Assets      1.3 
Liabilities      (1.0)
Net      0.3 
       
In the year ended 31 March 2013:       
Amount removed from equity and taken to Income Statement in operating profit   (0.3)
Fair value of cash flow hedges taken to equity      (0.4)
       
Fair value of hedging instruments under cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2013:    
Assets      1.3 
Liabilities      (1.7)
Net      (0.4)
   Financial statements
89  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
Maturity profile of financial derivatives 
Within
1 year
£ m 
1-2
years
£m 
2-3
years
£m 
3-4 
years 
£m 
4-5
years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Interest rate and cross-currency swaps 
hedging Private Placement Notes       
Assets  –  – 1.2  –  10.6  – 
Other interest rate swaps       
Liabilities  –  –  –  –   –  – 
Forward exchange contracts:       
Assets 1.3  –  –  –   –  – 
Liabilities (1.7) –  –  –   –  – 
At 31 March 2013 (0.4) – 1.2  –  10.6  – 
 
 
Within
1 year
£ m 
1-2
years
£m 
2-3
years
£m 
3-4 
years 
£m 
4-5
years
£m 
More than
5 years
£m 
Interest rate and cross-currency swaps 
hedging Private Placement Notes       
Assets  –  –  – 0.7  – 7.0 
Other interest rate swaps       
Liabilities (0.1) –  –  –   –  – 
Forward exchange contracts:       
Assets 1.3  –  –  –   –  – 
Liabilities (0.9) –  –  –   –  – 
At 31 March 2012 0.3  –  – 0.7  – 7.0 
Sensitivity analysis 
The sensitivity analysis set out below summarises the impact on: 
• Interest expense of a 1% increase/decrease in interest rates on all currencies from their actual levels for the year ended 31 March 2013 and 
the year ended 31 March 2012 
• Group profit before tax of a 10% increase/decrease in the value of the US Dollar and the Euro against Sterling from the actual level for the 
year ended 31 March 2013 and the year ended 31 March 2012 
The sensitivity analysis is based on the following: 
• Changes in market interest rates affect the interest income or expense of variable interest financial instruments 
• Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these 
are recognised at their fair market value 
• Changes in market interest rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments 
• Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are estimated by discounting the future 
cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end 
   90 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
Year ended 31 March 2013 
1% increase
in interest
rates
£m 
1% decrease 
 in interest 
rates 
£m 
10% increase
in value of
US$ & €
£m 
10% decrease
in value of
US$ & €
£m 
Impact on Income Statement: (loss) gain (1.1) 1.1 5.5 (4.5)
Impact on Equity: gain (loss) 0.0 0.0 20.2 (16.6)
     
Year ended 31 March 2012 
1% increase
in interest
rates
£m 
1% decrease 
 in interest 
rates 
£m 
10% increase 
in value of
US$ & €
£m 
10% decrease
 in value of
US$ & €
£m 
Impact on Income Statement: (loss) gain (1.2) 1.2 5.8 (5.8)
Impact on Equity: gain (loss) – –  15.0 (15.0)
Credit risk 
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash balances (including deposits and cash and cash equivalents) and derivative 
instruments and on trade and other receivables. 
The amounts in the balance sheet represent the maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date. There were no significant 
concentrations of credit risk at the balance sheet date, as exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties, customers and geographic 
locations. As such the Group does not believe its credit risk has materially altered during the year. 
The Group identifies counterparties of suitable creditworthiness based on ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies and has 
procedures to ensure that only these parties are used, that exposure limits are set based on the external credit ratings and that these limits  
are not exceeded. 
Trade and other receivables 
All operating companies have credit policies and monitor their credit exposure on an ongoing basis. Each operating company performs credit 
evaluations on all customers seeking credit over a certain amount. Trade receivables are stated net of allowances for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by local management based on prior experience of customers and assessment of their current economic environment. There are  
no significant individual allowances for doubtful receivables included within this amount. 
For countries with no local operating company presence export credit limits are set and monitored on a country basis monthly by the  
Treasury Committee. 
Given the profile of our customers, whereby credit risk is spread amongst a large number of customers with small balances, no further material 
credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables not past due other than those balances for which an allowance has been made. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
UK 62.7 61.9 
Continental Europe 81.9 82.4 
North America 34.5 32.5 
Asia Pacific 23.5 24.8 
 202.6 201.6 
The ageing of net trade receivables at the reporting date was: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Not past due 136.0 159.4 
Past due 0-60 days 58.0 37.1 
Past due 60-120 days 5.9 4.0 
Past due >120 days 2.7 1.1  Financial statements
91  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
20 Financial instruments continued 
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of loans and receivables during the year was as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Balance at 1 April (4.7) (5.5)
Impairment gain (loss) recognised (0.7) 0.8 
Balance at 31 March (5.4) (4.7)
Capital management 
The Board’s policy is to always maintain a strong capital base, with an appropriate debt to equity mix, to ensure investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to support the future development of the business. The Board monitors the return on capital employed, which the Group 
defines as operating profit as a percentage of net assets plus net debt and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.  
The Group seeks to raise debt from a variety of sources and with a variety of maturities. As at 31 March 2013 the Group had a Revolving Credit 
Facility of £120m, $75m and €50m with a maturity of November 2015 and $65m of US Private Placement Notes due 2015 and $85m of US 
Private Placement Notes due 2017. The Group’s debt covenants are EBITA: Interest to be greater than 3:1 and Net Debt: EBITDA to be less 
than 3.25:1. At the year end the Group comfortably met these covenants. 
There were no significant changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 
21 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
 
Assets
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Liabilities
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Net
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Property, plant and equipment  –  – (9.1) (12.9) (9.1) (12.9)
Goodwill  –  – (57.1) (48.9) (57.1) (48.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 4.3 2.1  –  –  4.3 2.1 
Inventories 1.1  –  (0.1) (0.2) 1.0 (0.2)
Employee benefits 3.2 2.7  –  –  3.2 2.7 
Provisions 0.6 1.5 –  –  0.6 1.5 
Other items 1.6 3.0  –  –  1.6 3.0 
Tax losses 2.7 2.2  –  –  2.7 2.2 
Tax assets (liabilities) 13.5 11.5 (66.3) (62.0) (52.8) (50.5)
Set-off of tax (7.1) (1.3) 7.1 1.3  –  – 
Net tax assets (liabilities) 6.4 10.2 (59.2) (60.7) (52.8) (50.5)
The increase in the deferred tax liability is largely due to the continuing tax amortisation of overseas goodwill and the reduced offset of tax 
losses due to the fact that they are being utilised. This deferred tax liability is not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset has been recognised for tax losses where current projections show that sufficient taxable profits will arise in the near 
future against which these losses may be offset. 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets   
Tax losses 8.3 9.2 
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these tax losses which can be carried forward against future taxable income  
as recoverability is uncertain. 
Deferred tax is provided at the standard rate of corporation tax applicable at the balance sheet date unless there is legislation enacted  
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date changing the rate. 
   92 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
 
22 Lease commitments 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group has entered into non-cancellable leases in respect of plant and machinery, the payments for which extend over a period of up  
to five years. The total annual rental for 2013 was £7.5m (2012: £3.6m). The lease agreements provide that the Group will pay all insurance, 
maintenance and repairs. In addition, the Group leases certain properties on short and long-term leases. The annual rental on these leases  
was £14.2m (2012: £14.5m). The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at various intervals specified in the leases.  
The Group pays all insurance, maintenance and repairs of these properties. Operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 
 
Properties Plant and machinery 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Within one year 8.7 8.8 7.0 7.0 
Within two to five years 14.1 14.8 7.9 11.3 
After five years 1.1 2.3  –  – 
  23.9 25.9 14.9 18.3 
23 Related parties 
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries as disclosed in note 15 to the Group accounts and with its key management 
personnel. The key management personnel of the Group are the Directors and, following the reorganisation activity, the Group Executive 
Committee. Compensation of key management personnel was: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Remuneration 3.2 1.7 
Social security costs 0.5 0.2 
Equity-settled transactions 0.7 0.4 
Pension costs 0.4 0.4 
 4.9 2.7 
Details of transactions with the jointly controlled entity are given in note 15 to the Group accounts. 
24 Share capital 
 
2013
Number of
shares 
2012 
Number of 
 shares 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Ordinary shares of 10p each:     
Called-up and fully paid:     
At 1 April 436,961,886 435,679,731 43.7 43.6 
New share capital subscribed 1,162,293 1,282,155 0.1 0.1 
At 31 March 438,124,179 436,961,886 43.8 43.7 
All of the new share capital subscribed in the financial year 2013 related to the exercise of share options (note 6). 
Details of the own shares held are given in note 8 to the Company accounts on page 99. 
   Financial statements
93  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
25 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Bank balances 9.3 11.2 
Call deposits and investments  – 8.6 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 9.3 19.8 
Bank overdrafts (10.7) (1.2)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement (1.4) 18.6 
Current instalments of loans  – (0.2)
Finance lease liabilities (2.1) (0.1) 
Bank loans repayable after more than one year (62.2) (80.4)
Private Placement Notes due 2015 (4.41%) (43.4) (41.3)
Private Placement Notes due 2017 (5.14%) (62.4) (58.5)
Fair value of swap hedging fixed rate borrowings 11.8 7.7 
Net debt (159.7) (154.2)
Gross pension deficit (19.0) (8.3)
Net debt including gross pension deficit (178.7) (162.5)
The movements on net debt during the year are analysed below: 
Analysis of movement in net debt 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Net debt at 1 April (154.2) (160.7)
Free cash flow 49.3 52.7 
Equity dividends paid (51.3) (50.1)
Dividends from vested share options (0.7) – 
New shares issued 0.6 1.1 
Own shares acquired (0.5) – 
New finance leases (2.0) – 
Translation differences (0.9) 2.8 
Net debt at 31 March (159.7) (154.2)
26 Contingent liabilities 
At 31 March 2013 there were no contingent liabilities (2012: none). 
27 Principal exchange rates 
 
2013
Average 
2013 
Closing 
2012
Average 
2012
Closing 
United States Dollar 1.58 1.52 1.60 1.60 
Euro 1.23 1.19 1.16 1.20 
  94 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2013 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Fixed assets    
Tangible fixed assets 6 15.9 16.3 
Investments 7 284.8 344.4 
   300.7 360.7 
Current assets    
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 9 61.0 56.2 
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 12.4 8.5 
Cash at bank and in hand  76.8 118.6 
   150.2 183.3 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 10 (43.2) (87.5)
Net current assets  107.0 95.8 
Total assets less current liabilities  407.7 456.5 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (168.0) (180.0)
Provisions for liabilities 12 (0.9) (0.9)
   238.8 275.6 
Capital and reserves    
Called-up share capital 15 43.8 43.7 
Share premium account 16 40.3 39.8 
Retained earnings 16 154.7 192.1 
Equity shareholders’ funds  238.8 275.6 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2013 and signed on its behalf by: 
Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director 
The notes on pages 97 to 102 form part of these Company accounts.  Financial statements
95  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
COMPANY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AS AT 31 MARCH 2013 
Basis of preparation 
The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical  
cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with  
UK Company Law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(UK GAAP). 
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union and are presented on pages 59 to 93. 
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company  
is exempt from the requirement to present its own Profit and  
Loss Account. 
Under Financial Reporting Standard 29, the Company is exempt  
from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 (Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures) on the grounds that the parent undertaking, 
Electrocomponents plc, includes the Company in its own published 
consolidated accounts. Disclosures are provided in note 20 under 
IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) which comply with the 
disclosure requirements of FRS 29. 
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies  
under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently. 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans are 
included in the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower of cost 
and the expected recoverable amount. Any impairment is recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account. 
Translation of foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of 
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the 
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and 
losses on translation are included in the Profit and Loss Account. 
Financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operational and financing activities. It principally employs forward 
foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange 
rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating 
companies. In addition there are also interest rate swaps which  
swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate. 
In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does not hold 
or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.  
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges  
in line with the Company’s risk management policies. Hedges are 
classified as follows: 
• Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes  
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability 
• Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability  
in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with  
a forecast transaction 
All the Group’s derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods 
recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for  
cash flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in  
the Profit and Loss Account as they arise. 
Cash flow hedge accounting 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge  
of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or  
a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain  
or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly  
in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised 
immediately in the Profit and Loss Account. When the forecast 
transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial 
asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed 
from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset  
or liability.  
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition 
of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss 
that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the Profit and 
Loss Account in the same period during which the asset acquired or 
liability assumed affects profit or loss. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or 
exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship 
but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised  
in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.  
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.  
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference 
between their discounted contractual forward price and their current 
forward price. 
Fair value hedge accounting 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure 
to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, holding interest 
rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate. 
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap 
at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates. 
Pension costs 
The Company participates in Group operated defined contribution  
and defined benefit pension schemes. The assets of the schemes  
are held separately from those of the Company in independently 
administered funds. 
As allowed by FRS 17 (Retirement Benefits), the Company is unable 
to identify its share of the defined benefit scheme’s underlying assets 
and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as though it was a defined 
contribution pension scheme. The deficit of the scheme is included 
within the accounts of RS Components Limited. 
Share-based payments 
The Company operates several share-based payment schemes,  
the largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(SAYE), the Long Term Incentive Option Plan (LTIOP), the Long Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP). 
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread over the 
period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to 
the options. The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option 
pricing model. The Profit and Loss Account charge is then adjusted  
to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non-market 
performance related criteria.   96 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
COMPANY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
All Profit and Loss Account charges relating to options held by 
members of other Group companies are charged to the appropriate 
Group company. Amounts relating to equity-settled share-based 
payments in subsidiary companies are debited to the value of  
the investment in that entity with the corresponding entry shown  
in reserves. 
The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS  
20 (Share-Based Payments) is applied only to awards made after  
7 November 2002. 
Depreciation 
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land. Other assets 
have been depreciated to residual value on a straight-line basis  
at the following annual rates: 
Freehold buildings  2% 
Warehouse systems  10%-20% 
Plant and equipment  10%-20% 
Mainframe computer equipment  20% 
Network computer equipment  33% 
Portable computers  50% 
Other office equipment  20% 
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and  
takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences. 
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all 
timing differences between the treatment of certain items for  
taxation and accounting purposes. 
Leases 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on 
a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period. The benefits 
of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the Profit 
and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the period up to  
the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing 
market rate. 
Own shares held 
The Company’s own shares held by the Electrocomponents 
Employee Trust are deducted from shareholders’ funds until they  
vest unconditionally with employees as required by UITF 38 
(Accounting for ESOP Trusts). 
  Financial statements
97  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
1 Profit for the financial year 
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £12.8m (2012: £61.9m). A separate Profit and Loss account has not been presented  
in respect of the Company, as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Disclosure of the audit fees payable to KPMG Audit plc for the audit of Electrocomponents plc’s financial statements is made in note 3  
of the Group accounts. 
2 Employees 
Numbers employed 
 2013 2012 
The average number of employees during the year was:   
Management and administration 40 46 
Distribution and marketing 11 18 
  51 64 
 
Aggregate employment costs 
 £m £m 
Wages and salaries 4.2 5.0 
Social security costs 0.6 0.7 
Share-based payments 1.1 1.4 
Pension costs 0.9 0.7 
 6.8 7.8 
The remuneration of individual Directors is detailed on page 52. 
3 Share-based payments 
Details and relevant disclosures of the share based payment schemes that existed during the year are given in note 6 of the Group accounts. 
Number and weighted average exercise prices of share options 
In thousands of options 
Weighted 
average
exercise price
2013 
Number of 
options 
2013 
Weighted 
average
exercise price
2012 
Number of 
options
2012 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3p 2,397 10p 2,828 
Forfeited during the year n/a  –  40p (41)
Lapsed during the year 15p (550) 10p (810)
Exercised during the year 5p (373) 31p (312)
Granted during the year 15p 1,623 7p 732 
Outstanding at the end of the year 8p 3,097 3p 2,397 
Exercisable at the end of the year n/a – n/a – 
The options outstanding at 31 March 2013 have an exercise price in the range 0p to 235p and a weighted average contractual life of 2.9 years. 
The total charge included in the Profit and Loss Account in the year was £1.1m (2012: £1.4m). Of the total charge £1.0m (2012: £1.4m) related 
to equity-settled share schemes and £0.1m (2012: £nil) related to cash-settled share schemes. 
   98 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
4 Pension schemes 
The UK defined benefit scheme is described in note 7 of the Group accounts. The last actuarial valuation of the UK scheme was carried out as 
at 31 March 2010 and has been updated to 31 March 2013 by a qualified independent actuary in accordance with FRS 17. The balance on the 
UK scheme is included within the balance sheet of RS Components Limited, a subsidiary of Electrocomponents plc, as it is this company which 
employs the majority of the scheme members. As allowed by FRS 17, the balance has not been split between Electrocomponents plc and RS 
Components Limited as it is not possible to do so on a consistent and reasonable basis. This disclosure therefore relates to the UK pension 
scheme rather than just the Electrocomponents plc portion of it. 
The only significant difference that has been identified as between IAS 19 (IFRS) and FRS 17 (UK GAAP) is that the surplus in 2012 may be 
recognised under UK GAAP in the accounts of RS Components Limited.  
The valuation of the scheme as at 31 March was: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Total market value of assets 384.3 346.2 
Present value of scheme liabilities (396.7) (335.6)
(Deficit) Surplus in the scheme recognised in RS Components Limited (12.4) 10.6 
5 Dividends 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts recognised in the period:   
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 – 6.75p (2011: 6.5p) 29.5 28.3 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 – 5.0p (2012: 5.0p) 21.8 21.8 
 51.3 50.1 
Proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 – 6.75p 29.5  
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2013 and has not been included  
as a liability in these accounts. 
6 Tangible fixed assets 
Cost 
Land and 
buildings
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Computer 
systems
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2012 21.5 9.2  0.5 31.2 
Additions  –  –   –  – 
At 31 March 2013 21.5 9.2  0.5 31.2 
     
Depreciation     
At 1 April 2012 5.3 9.2  0.4 14.9 
Charged in the year 0.4 – – 0.4 
At 31 March 2013 5.7 9.2  0.4 15.3 
     
Net book value     
At 31 March 2013 15.8  –  0.1 15.9 
At 31 March 2012 16.2  –  0.1 16.3 
 
Net book value of land and buildings 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Freehold land 4.6 4.6 
Freehold buildings 11.2 11.6 
 15.8 16.2 
All classes of tangible fixed assets are depreciated except freehold land.   Financial statements
99  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
7 Investments: subsidiary undertakings 
Cost 
Shares 
£m 
Loans
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2012 187.2  172.6 359.8 
Additions 0.9  – 0.9 
Disposals  –  (60.5) (60.5)
At 31 March 2013 188.1 112.1 300.2 
    
Provisions    
At 1 April 2012  –  15.4 15.4 
Released in the year  –   –  – 
At 31 March 2013  –  15.4 15.4 
    
Net book value    
At 31 March 2013 188.1 96.7 284.8 
At 31 March 2012 187.2  157.2 344.4 
A list of the principal subsidiary undertakings held by the Company is disclosed in note 15 to the Group accounts. 
The cost of share-based incentives in respect of shares in the Company granted to employees of Group companies other than 
Electrocomponents plc, is treated as an increase in investments with the corresponding credit taken directly to reserves. In 2013,  
this amounted to £0.9m (2012: £1.5m). 
8 Own shares 
At 31 March 2013, a total of 337,059 (2012: 408,417) ordinary shares in the Company were held by the Electrocomponents Employee Benefit 
Trust, all of which were under option to employees for a nominal consideration. During the year 237,417 ordinary shares in the Company  
were purchased by the trustees (2012: 100,000), and 308,775 (2012: nil) were disposed of by the trustees. The market value of the shares  
at 31 March 2013 was £846,018 (2012: £1,012,057). 
9 Debtors 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year:   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 58.4 53.9 
Prepayments and accrued income 2.6 2.3 
 61.0 56.2 
   
Amounts falling due after more than one year:   
Derivative asset 11.8 7.7 
Deferred tax asset (see note 12) 0.6 0.8 
 12.4 8.5 
 
   100 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
10 Creditors 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year:   
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)  – 0.2 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 39.7 83.1 
Accruals and deferred income 3.5 4.2 
 43.2 87.5 
   
Amounts falling due after more than one year:   
Loans repayable after more than one year (see note 11) 168.0 180.0 
 168.0 180.0 
11 Loans 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Euro bank loans 7.6 25.0 
Sterling bank loans 24.6 20.0 
South African Rand bank loans 3.7 4.0 
US Dollar bank loans 26.3 31.2 
US Dollar Private Placement Notes 105.8 99.8 
 168.0 180.0 
   
Loans repayable in more than two but not more than five years 105.6 121.4 
Loans repayable in more than five years 62.4 58.6 
 168.0 180.0 
The bank loans are at variable rates of interest and are unsecured. 
Details of the US Dollar Private Placement Notes are provided in note 20 of the Group accounts. 
   Financial statements
101  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
12 Provisions for liabilities  
  
Deferred 
taxation
£m 
At 1 April 2012  0.1 
Profit and loss account  0.2 
At 31 March 2013  0.3 
   
Deferred taxation 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts provided:   
Accelerated capital allowances 0.9 0.9 
Share schemes (0.6) (0.8)
  0.3 0.1 
   
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Disclosed as:   
Deferred tax asset (note 9) (0.6) (0.8)
Deferred tax liability 0.9 0.9 
  0.3 0.1 
13 Lease commitments 
At 31 March 2013 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring as follows: 
 
Motor Vehicles Land and Buildings 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Within one year  –  –  0.3  – 
Within two to five years  – 0.1  1.2  – 
After five years  –  –   – 0.3 
  – 0.1  1.5 0.3 
14 Contingent liabilities 
Guarantees in respect of bank facilities available to certain subsidiaries up to a maximum of £16.6m (2012: £16.5m), of which £10.3m  
(2012: £1.0m) had been drawn down by the end of the year. 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee 
contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under  
the guarantee. 
15 Share capital 
 
2013
Number of
shares 
2012 
Number of 
shares 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Ordinary shares of 10p each      
Called up and fully paid:      
At 1 April  436,961,886 435,679,731 43.7 43.6 
New share capital subscribed 1,162,293 1,282,155 0.1 0.1 
At 31 March 438,124,179 436,961,886 43.8 43.7 
All of the new share capital subscribed in 2013 related to the exercise of share options. 
   102 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 
16 Reserves 
 
 Retained earnings  
Share
premium 
account
£m 
Own shares
held
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Profit and Loss
account
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2012 39.8 (1.9) 1.0  193.0 231.9 
Profit for the year  –  –  –  12.8 12.8 
Dividends paid  –  –  –  (51.3) (51.3)
Equity-settled transactions  –  –  –  2.0 2.0 
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 0.5 1.3 – (1.7) 0.1 
Own shares acquired – (0.5) –   –  (0.5) 
At 31 March 2013 40.3 (1.1) 1.0  154.8 195.0 
The own shares held reserve represents the cost of shares in Electrocomponents plc purchased in the market and held by the 
Electrocomponents Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. 
17 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Profit for the year 12.8 61.9 
Dividends paid (51.3) (50.1)
Gain on cash flow hedges  – 0.2 
Own shares acquired (0.5) (0.2)
Equity-settled transactions 2.0 2.9 
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 0.2 1.1 
Net increase (reduction) in equity (36.8) 15.8 
Equity shareholders’ funds at the beginning of the year 275.6 259.8 
Equity shareholders’ funds at the end of the year 238.8 275.6  Shareholder information
103  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
FIVE YEAR RECORD FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 
£m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Revenue 1,235.6 1,267.4 1,182.2  972.6 974.6 
Operating profit 96.9 128.1 119.8  80.8 103.5 
Reorganisation costs (income)/ pension changes 7.4  –  –  (1.6) (9.9)
Headline operating profit 104.3 128.1 119.8  79.2 93.6 
      
Net financial expense (5.6) (5.8) (5.8) (4.8) (7.0)
      
Profit before tax 91.3 122.3 114.0  76.0 96.5 
Reorganisation costs (income)/ pension changes 7.4  –  –  (1.6) (9.9)
Headline profit before tax 98.7 122.3 114.0  74.4 86.6 
Tax (28.4) (37.4) (35.8) (23.4) (30.3)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders 62.9 84.9 78.2  52.6 66.2 
Basic earnings per share 14.4p  19.5p  18.0p   12.1p  15.2p 
Free cash flow 49.3 52.7 57.4  71.9 78.0 
Non-current assets 361.5 349.1 333.0  349.3 370.5 
Current assets 498.2 501.9 456.1  372.7 350.9 
Current liabilities (221.4) (225.0) (224.3) (190.6) (160.1)
Non-current liabilities (258.7) (260.0) (229.5) (228.3) (258.5)
Net assets 379.6 366.0 335.3  303.1 302.8 
Number of shares in issue:      
Weighted average (excluding own shares held) 437.8 436.1 435.3  435.1 435.0 
Year end 438.1 437.0 435.7  435.4 435.4 
      
Dividend per share (pence) 11.75 11.75 11.5  11.0 11.0 
Average number of employees 6,307 6,340 5,784  5,556 6,025 
Share price at 31 March (pence) 251.0 247.8 267.3  220.0 125.5 
  104 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Registered office, advisers and financial calendar
REGISTERED OFFICE
Electrocomponents plc
International Management Centre 
8050 Oxford Business Park North Oxford OX4 2HW 
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 1865 204000
Fax: +44 1865 207400
www.electrocomponents.com
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
Registrar
If you have any questions about your shareholding in the Company, 
please contact our Registrar: Equiniti Ltd, Aspect House, Spencer 
Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom. Telephone 
0871 384 2158 (+44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK). Lines are 
open between 8.30am and 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding UK 
bank holidays. Calls cost 8p per minute, plus network extras.
Shareview
To access online information about your shareholdings visit 
www.shareview.co.uk. The website also provides information 
useful to the management of investments together with an 
extensive schedule of frequently asked questions. In order to view 
your shareholdings the shareholder reference number is required 
which can be found at the top of share certiﬁ cate or on the last 
dividend tax voucher.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 
Should you wish to reinvest your dividends in the Company, 
you can take advantage of our DRIP . It will allow you to use 
your cash dividend to buy more Electrocomponents shares in 
the market. You will need to complete a DRIP application form 
and return it to Equiniti. This can be found, together with plan 
terms and conditions, at www.shareview.co.uk or on our website 
at www.electrocomponents.com/investor-centre/shareholder-
information/faqs. Alternatively, please contact Equiniti on the 
number given above and details and a form will be sent to you.
Share price information
The latest information on Electrocomponents plc share price 
is available on our website www.electrocomponents.com. 
Investor relations app
The Company has launched an app offering instant online and ofﬂ ine 
access, free of charge, to the company’s latest ﬁ nancial and corporate 
information on the Apple iPad and iPhone. Details are available on our 
website at www.electrocomponents.com/investor-centre.
SHARE FRAUD WARNING
Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue 
and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, 
or an inﬂ ated price for shares they own. These calls come from 
fraudsters operating ‘boiler rooms’ that are mostly based abroad. 
While high proﬁ ts are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this 
way usually lose their money. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
has found that most share fraud victims are experienced investors 
who lose an average of £20,000, with around £200m lost in the UK 
in each year.
PROTECT YOURSELF - If you are offered unsolicited investment 
advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or 
free company research report, you should take these steps before 
handing over any money:
• Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you
• Check the FCA Register at www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do 
to ensure they are authorised
• Use the detail on the FCA Register to contact the ﬁ rm
• Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no 
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date
• Search our list of unauthorised ﬁ rms and individuals to avoid doing 
business with
• REMEMBER: if it sounds to good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised ﬁ rm to buy or sell shares or other 
investment, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service of Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things 
go wrong.
REPORT A SCAM - If you are approached about a share scam 
you should tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at 
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams, where you can ﬁ nd out about 
the latest investment scams. You can also call the Consumer Helpline 
on 0800 111 6768.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Announcement of results
The results of the Group are normally published at the following times.
Half-yearly results for the six months to 30 September in 
early/mid November.
Preliminary announcement for the year to 31 March in late 
May/early June.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 31 March in mid June.
Dividend payments
Current policy is to make dividend payments at the following times:
Interim dividend in January and ﬁ nal dividend in July.
2013 ﬁ nal dividend:
Ex-dividend date: 19 June
Record date: 21 June
Annual General Meeting: 17 July
Dividend paid: 22 July
ADVISERS
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Merchant bankers
Citigroup
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
London E14 5LB
Registrars and transfer ofﬁ ce
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Solicitors
Linklaters LLP
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
Joint stockbrokers
Canaccord Genuity
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London, EC2M 2PP Access the latest shareholder information
• Updates via email
• Latest share price
• Corporate governance
• Analysts
View archive information
• Company reports
• Company presentations
• Results and trading updates
• Video library
Shareholder services
• Register online
• Shareview
• FAQs
GET MORE ONLINE
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
Printed by Park
 International Management Centre
8050 Oxford Business Park North
Oxford OX4 2HW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 1865 204000
Fax: +44 1865 207400
www.electrocomponents.com
PRINCIPAL LOCATIONS
United Kingdom
UK
rswww.com
Global exports
www.rsdelivers.com
Continental Europe
Austria
www.rs-components.at
Belgium
www.rsonline.be
Czech Republic
www.rscomponents.cz
Denmark
www.rsonline.dk
France
rswww.fr
Germany
www.rsonline.de
Hungary
www.rscomponents.hu
Ireland
rswww.ie
Italy
rswww.it
Netherlands
www.rsonline.nl
Norway
www.rsonline.no
Poland
www.rspoland.com
Portugal
www.rsportugal.com
Spain
www.rsonline.es
Sweden
www.rsonline.se
Switzerland
www.rsonline.ch
North America
Canada
www.alliedelec.com
USA
www.alliedelec.com
Asia Paciﬁ c
Australia
www.rsaustralia.com
Chile
www.rschile.cl
People’s Republic of China
www.rsprc.com
Hong Kong
www.rshongkong.com
India
www.rsindia.com
Japan
rswww.co.jp
Malaysia
www.rsmalaysia.com
New Zealand
www.rsnewzealand.com
Philippines
www.rsphilippines.com
Singapore
www.rssingapore.com
South Africa
www.rssouthafrica.com
South Korea
www.rscomponents.kr
Taiwan
www.rstaiwan.com
Thailand
www.rsthailand.com
STAY UP TO DATE
ALSO A V AILABLE ONLINE
For more information and the latest news visit: www.electrocomponents.com
To view our online Annual Report 2013 visit: 
annualreport.electrocomponents.com/2013 
