 23079.04 - Proof 1 -30 May 2014 3:37 PM
The global distributor for engineers
www.electrocomponents.com
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
Electrocomponents plc
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 31 March 2014
Stock Code: ECM
 
 
 
 
 
Electrocomponents Front AR 2013.indd   3 02/06/2014   09:24:39 ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Welcome 
We are Electrocomponents, the global 
distributor for engineers.
Below is a snapshot of who we are and how we operate. There are  
signposts below to key sections of this report that we hope will  
enable readers to understand our marketplace and business model,  
assess our most recent performance and learn about our strategies  
and growth ambitions for the future. We also discuss the risks the  
business is likely to face as it seeks to achieve these ambitions.
Strong brands eCommerce driven marketing Large, locally-based sales force
Watch the video online
www.electrocomponents.com
58% 
of sales via eCommerce
See page 12 for 
Our Strategy
2,500 
sales people globally
See page 22 for 
Business and Financial Review
Leading global suppliers Broadest product range in industry T argeting engineers & their buyers
Over
2,500  suppliers
Read more online
www.electrocomponents.com
Around
500,000  products
See page 10 for 
Business Model
More than
1 million customers
See page 08 for 
Marketplace
Network of 17 distribution centres Sophisticated global IT network People at the heart of the business
Delivering
44,000 parcels every day
See page 14 for 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
50+ critical systems  
See page 28 for 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Around
6,300 employees
See page 34 for
Corporate Responsibility 23079.04 - Proof 1 -5 June 2014 3:02 PM
Our Business
01
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
In this report
Our Business
Highlights 2014 04
Chairman’s Report 06
Marketplace 08
Business Model 10
Our Strategy 12
Our Performance
Group Chief Executive’s Review 14
Key Performance Indicators 20
Business and Financial Review 22
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 28
Corporate Responsibility 34
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors 42
Directors’ Report: 45
• Corporate Governance Report 48
• Audit Committee Report 58
• Nomination Committee Report 65
• Directors’ Remuneration Report 67
• Additional Information 88
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
90
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 94
Group Income Statement 96
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
97
Group Balance Sheet 98
Group Cash Flow Statement 99
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
100
Notes to the Group Accounts 101
Company Balance Sheet 137
Notes to the Company 
Accounts
138
Shareholder Information
Five Y ear Record 146
Registered office, advisers
and financial calendar
147
Principal Locations IBC
Look out for these icons:
Watch the video online
Read more online
Read more in this report
Strategic Report
Business Model
 
12
3 9
6
We start each
day with minimal 
orders and ﬁnish the 
day with minimal orders, 
but in between we  
process and despatch 
around 44,000 parcels 
to customers
Reliable 
delivery
5
Inventory
management
3
Offer
presentation
2
Supplier
management 
1
Order
receipt &
management
4
Read more in this report
Our business model has existed for 
over 75 years. It is designed to save 
our customers, principally engineers and 
buyers, time and money. For further 
information on our Business Model  
and how we make money go to  
Page 10
Our Strategy
Read more in this report
A new global strategy was introduced 
last year in order to put the business in
the best possible shape to capture
our growth opportunities. For further 
information on Our Strategy go to 
Page 12
Visit us online at
www.electrocomponents.com 02
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Working together 
to deliver an 
extraordinary 
customer experience
Strategy in Action
Building a consistent global offer
TE Connectivity (TE), a $13 billion world 
leader in connectivity with nearly 90,000 
employees in over 50 countries, is our 
largest electronics supplier.  
TE designs and manufactures components 
that are found in nearly every product 
in the world that uses electronics in 
industries including energy, industrial, 
broadband, consumer devices, automotive, 
aerospace and defence. 
With their expertise and design 
capabilities, TE builds the connectors, 
systems and solutions that engineers rely 
on to transport power and data, helping 
to solve today’s biggest connectivity 
challenges in new and creative ways. 
Investment in innovation allows TE to not 
only meet, but anticipate, customers’ 
needs. 
Electrocomponents’ vast engineering 
customer base, worldwide presence, 
eCommerce capabilities and free online 
tools help ensure that TE’s unmatched 
product portfolio is available to customers,  
saving time and money by accelerating the 
design process and simplifying product 
sourcing and purchasing.
Canda Carr, Vice President, Global 
Channel Sales at TE, commented: “TE 
is committed to the highest standards 
of innovation, quality, availability, and 
service and support, underscored by a 
commitment to delivering an extraordinary 
customer experience. Electrocomponents  
is aligned with this strategy through their 
global level-up programme, making sure 
their extensive range of TE products 
is consistently stocked and promoted. 
Electrocomponents’ worldwide presence 
gives TE access to a large and diverse 
customer base, increasing exposure of our 
products across new markets and ensuring 
customers benefit from the highest 
service levels. ”
  Our Business
03
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 23079.04 - Proof 1 -5 June 2014 3:02 PM
04
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Highlights 2014
2014 was the first year of our new medium-term business plan. 
Below are the key financial and operational highlights of the year.
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR BUSINESS > HIGHLIGHTS 2014
Key numbers
Headline profit before tax Group sales growth * eCommerce sales share
£1 0 1 .1 million
(2013: £94.1 million 
†
)
2.1% 
(2013: 0.5%)
58% 
(2013: 56%)
Headline return on sales Headline return on capital employed Headline free cash flow
8.3%
(2013: 8.1% 
†
)
20.9%
(2013: 18.5% 
†
)
£58.3 million
(2013: £56.1 million)
* Adjusted for trading days and currency movements.
†
  Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits.
How are we progressing with our strategy ?
3% more customers
6% eCommerce growth
Range globalisation begun
Stable gross margin
Employee engagement up
ELECTROCOMPONENTS
THE LEADING
GLOBAL DISTRIBUTOR
TOP 5 DISTRIBUTORS 
SHARE 15% 
OF MARKET
HIGHL Y FRAGMENTED
85%
PROVIDES BIGGEST 
OPPORTUNITY 
4% ‘Famous for‘ growth
DesignSpark Mechanical 
Improved website search
SAP system rollout in APAC
Business insight system
See page 12 for 
Our Strategy Our Business
05
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Global sales
Continental Europe
£157m
13% of sales
£461m
36% of sales
Asia Paciﬁc
North Amer ica
£281m
22% of sales
UK
£374m
29% of sales
See page 24 
See page 26 
See page 25 
See page 25 
Operating companies
Distributor companies
Reasons to invest
Well-established 
global market leader
Growing markets
Structural growth 
opportunity
Ambitious targets
Our two well-established 
brands, RS Components 
(RS) and Allied Electronics 
(Allied), have existed for 
more than 75 years and 
have grown to produce 
a Group that is a global 
leader in its marketplace, 
covering around 90% of 
the world’s GDP .
The markets we operate 
in grow faster than GDP 
on average. This is driven 
by electronic components 
demand, which grows at 
around twice GDP through 
the business cycle, with 
continued innovation 
increasing the proliferation 
of electronic components 
in everyday life.
The marketplace we 
operate in is highly 
fragmented, with 
numerous smaller 
competitors. There are 
clear benefits to being a 
large, global competitor 
in this marketplace, 
meaning we are well 
placed to take a greater 
share of this fast-growing 
market over time.
We have raised our 
growth ambitions for 
the Group. We expect 
that the execution of our 
global strategy will deliver 
market share gains in our 
international markets, 
leading to higher sales 
growth and improved 
financial performance 
over the medium-term.
 See page 10 for 
Business Model
 See page 08 for  
Marketplace
 See page 12 for  
Our Strategy
 See page 20 for  
Key Performance 
Indicators 06
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Chairman’s Report
This annual report is our first since new reporting regulations 
have required the inclusion of a strategic report and 
confirmation by the Directors that the report, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable. The content of 
this strategic report is not significantly different to content 
that has been presented in previous years, though we 
have enhanced our reporting of key performance indicators 
(KPIs – page 20) and the principal risks and uncertainties our 
business faces (page 28). We have made greater use of cross-
referencing and signposting between various sections of the 
report to make it more cohesive. We have also tried to use 
clear and concise language and to improve the transparency 
of our reporting. We hope that this will help shareholders 
assess the Company’s past performance, its main objectives 
and strategies going forward, and the key risks it faces in the 
pursuit of these.
Strategy and medium-term business plan
Last year I reported on the changes we had made to the 
Group’s organisation and strategy, which are designed to 
deliver improved financial performance for shareholders over 
the medium-term.
In the past 12 months the new organisation has bedded 
down, the plan is being implemented and good early progress 
against our strategic priorities is being delivered. Details of 
these are in the Our Strategy section (page 12) and Group 
Chief Executive’s Review (page 14). I would also like to 
highlight the significant strides made in rolling out our global 
systems platform across Asia Pacific, the improvements to 
search functions on our website and the initial steps taken 
to build a global offer by developing a consistent global range 
with strategic suppliers such as TE Connectivity and Omron.
We have an ambitious plan, and the scale and complexity 
of what we have set out to do over the coming years is 
significant. As the strategy is implemented we will ensure 
we learn lessons and adapt our plans accordingly. The Board 
regularly reviews our overall strategy, business plan and 
progress on implementation. We remain confident the Group 
is set on the right course to grow market share and improve 
financial performance over the medium-term.
T rading performance
The Group grew underlying sales (adjusted for trading days 
and currency movements) by 2% over the past year. Group 
underlying sales growth improved from around 1% in the 
first half of the year to around 3% in the second half, partially 
reflecting improving global markets, as illustrated by the 
increase in manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices 
(PMIs) in many developed markets. All our International 
regions contributed to this improvement, most notably 
Continental Europe, where we benefited from improving 
PMIs and took market share from our numerous smaller 
competitors. This continues a long-standing trend of share 
gains by our International business; we estimate that over the 
period 2006 to 2013 around half of our International compound 
annual sales growth of 6% was attributable to market share 
gains.
Our strategy is focused on growing customer numbers, 
eCommerce sales and sales of our ‘Famous For’ product 
range (comprising our electronics and automation and control 
categories). All three of these operational measures grew 
faster than total Group sales. More information on these, and 
our other KPIs, can be found on page 20.
Underlying sales growth of 2% contributed to headline profit 
before tax increasing by 7% to £101 million, reflecting a stable 
gross margin and growth in operating costs (at constant 
exchange rates) of 2%. Headline profit before tax growth also 
benefited by around £4 million from additional trading days 
and favourable currency movements, without which growth in 
headline profit before tax would have been 3%.
Welcome to the 2014 Electrocomponents Annual Report.
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR BUSINESS > CHAIRMAN’S REPORT Our Business
07
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our business model is highly cash-generative and Group 
headline free cash flow during the year remained strong at 
£58 million (compared with £56 million in the prior year), 
even after the planned increase in capital expenditure from 
£27 million to £36 million required to deliver our strategy. 
Free cash flow as a percentage of sales at 4.6% was within 
the parameters set out in our medium-term performance 
framework, as is the Group’s return on capital employed of 
21%. This remains well ahead of our weighted average cost 
of capital (for more information on these KPIs please refer to 
page 20).
Dividend
The Board is proposing an unchanged final dividend for the 
year of 6.75 pence per share. This will be paid on 29 July 2014 
to shareholders on the register on 27 June 2014. As a result, 
the total dividend for the year will be 11 .75 pence per share, 
resulting in headline earnings dividend cover of 1 .4 times.
The Board continues to believe that the business has 
significant opportunities to invest for growth at attractive 
returns, as encapsulated in the Group’s medium-term 
business plan. As previously stated, over time and as earnings 
increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend 
policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover 
towards two times.
Governance
The Board and its committees have worked effectively 
throughout the year. The Board is closely involved with the 
development of Group strategy, as well as scrutiny of progress 
towards its implementation and ongoing performance. 
An external, independent evaluation of the Board’s structure, 
composition and performance, carried out in autumn 2013, 
concluded that the Board works well, is engaged and 
committed and has broad diversity. Recommendations on 
improvements to target setting and review, succession 
planning and competitor analysis have been implemented.
After five years, Adrian Auer is standing down from the Board. 
His extensive experience has been of great benefit to the 
Board and we will miss him. I would like to thank him for his 
valued contribution. Recruitment of a successor is underway.
The Board is fully committed to showing leadership in 
fostering diversity of gender, race and nationality throughout 
all levels of the business, and ensures it considers candidates 
from all such backgrounds and irrespective of physical 
disability when appointing new Board members.
During the year the Audit Committee oversaw an audit 
tender process which has resulted in the intention to change 
auditors, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. The Board also reviewed its approach to risk 
management, resulting in an even greater focus on those risks 
which could have a large impact on shareholder value. 
There is more detail in the Corporate Governance section on 
pages 42 to 91 than in the past, most notably in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report where we have clearly set out how our 
remuneration policy supports the business’ strategy. We hope 
that these changes will help readers understand the work 
of the various Board committees and the role they play in 
promoting the long-term success of the Group. 
Corporate responsibility
As members of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate 
responsibility is integral to our business. Our greatest focus 
is on our employees, through ensuring a safe and healthy 
working environment and engaging them fully in our business 
strategy and operations. The Board provides clear leadership 
in both these areas. We are also strongly committed to being 
good citizens, playing a full part in the communities in which 
we operate and controlling our impact on the environment. 
More information on our approach to corporate responsibility 
can be found on page 34.
Employees
The success of the Group in its ability to grow and achieve its 
ambitions is totally dependent on the talents and efforts of 
our employees. As a Board, whenever we visit our operations, 
either together or individually, we are always delighted at 
the enthusiasm, commitment and dedication shown by our 
colleagues, even through the period of change and uncertainty 
many have experienced in recent years. I am delighted to 
see the way our employees have embraced these changes 
and engaged with the new strategy, and it is pleasing to see 
that the most recent employee engagement survey reported 
an improvement in employee engagement. On behalf of the 
Board I would like to thank them all.
Peter Johnson 
Chairman 
22 May 2014 08
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code: ECM
Average order circa £150
Average order contains 2-3 product lines
Wide variety of products per order
T ypical Order Characteristics
> 1 million
customers
Op
F
Our business mainly serves the demand created 
by engineers at the start and end of a 
product life cycle.
Stages of the product lifecycle
Our key customer groups:
Buyers
Research &
Development
Engineers
Machine &
Panel Builders
Maintenance
Engineers
R&D
Maintenance Production
Reaching circa 90% of global GDP
N
Marketplace
The demand that we serve and our market opportunity.
See page 14 for
Group Chief 
Executive’s Review
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR BUSINESS > MARKETPLACE Our Business
09
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information
ELECTROCOMPONENTS
THE LEADING
GLOBAL DISTRIBUTOR
TOP 5 DISTRIBUTORS 
SHARE 15% 
OF MARKET
HIGHL Y FRAGMENTED
85%
PROVIDES BIGGEST 
OPPORTUNITY 
GLOBAL MARKET CIRCA  
Opportunity to take a larger share of growing markets
FUTURE
£30 BILLION
NOW
Structural growth opportunity  
in growing and fragmented markets
The markets we operate in grow faster than GDP through 
the cycle. This is driven by electronics component 
demand, which grows at twice GDP whilst maintenance 
components demand typically grows at the same rate as 
GDP . However, electronics component demand is typically 
more volatile than the economic cycle, as spending on 
new technological innovation can easily be halted and then 
re-started. Maintenance component demand, in contrast, 
is typically less volatile and more aligned to the economic 
cycle.
The supplier base serving this demand is highly 
fragmented, being mainly populated by a large number of 
small local and regional distributors. There are five large 
international distributors, of which Electrocomponents is 
the largest, who together have around 15% of the available 
global market and who have, over time, been consistently 
gaining share from the smaller distributors. This trend is 
expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
 See page 12 for Our Strategy to capture this structural 
growth opportunity, and page 14 for the Group Chief 
Executive’s Review, where there is further discussion of 
this opportunity. 10
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Business Model
Our business model is focused on saving our customers time 
and money, and delivering them peace of mind.
 
12
3 9
6
We start each
day with minimal 
orders and ﬁnish the 
day with minimal orders, 
but in between we  
process and despatch 
around 44,000 parcels 
to customers
Reliable 
delivery
5
Inventory
management
3
Offer
presentation
2
Supplier
management 
1
Order
receipt &
management
4
See page 28 for
Principal Risks  
and Uncertainties
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR BUSINESS > BUSINESS MODEL Our Business
11
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Global component distribution
The business model we operate today is largely unchanged 
in principle from that designed by the Company’s founders 
over 75 years ago. The key stages are highlighted in the 
diagram on the opposite page and described below. 
We make money by providing reliable and fast delivery 
of small quantities of a vast range of quality products to 
customers. We provide multiple ways for them to transact 
with us, and provide support and tools to help them make 
their transaction with us a quick and simple process. With 
this focus on providing high levels of customer service, the 
business is able to earn a high return on the broad range of 
stock it holds.
1. Supplier management
We work closely with over 2,500 major suppliers 
of semiconductors, interconnect, passives and 
electromechanical components, automation and control 
components, electrical, test and measurement products 
and tools and consumables to ensure we have the right 
products in stock to fulfil customer demand.
2. Offer presentation, sales and marketing
We present this offer of leading products using rich and 
full content via web and catalogue, backed up by technical 
support and design tools, so that customers can make 
informed purchase decisions. 
Our highly-skilled sales teams are deployed to optimise this 
stage of the process for our high-value customers, whilst 
our digital resources are used to market to all customer 
types. 
We price our offer competitively, changing prices on our 
leading global brands regularly and offering own-brand 
products within certain parts of our product range to 
supplement our offer to customers.
3. Inventory management
Our global network of 17 distribution centres houses around 
500,000 products. Fast-moving products are stored close to 
the local market to enable next day delivery, with medium-
moving products being stored regionally and new products 
and slower-moving products stored at a global warehouse.
4. Order receipt and management
Customers can place orders via the internet, phone, email, 
mobile, fax or in person. No minimum order quantity is 
required. Orders are picked and packed within several hours 
of receipt, with around 44,000 orders being processed 
every day.
5. Reliable delivery
We pride ourselves on giving our customers peace of 
mind by delivering the full order on time. The majority of 
our orders are for next day delivery and we outsource the 
transportation of parcels from the distribution centres 
to customers to the major global freight forwarding 
companies.
See page 12 for Our Strategy to execute this business 
model in the manner that we believe will most effectively 
serve our marketplace and take advantage of the structural 
growth opportunity available to us.
Why customers choose us
Range and availability — we stock the broadest range of products, which saves customers the time and expense 
of managing multiple suppliers and minimises their inventory costs. We sell genuine, high-quality products from over 
2,500 known and trusted brands. 
Service accuracy — customers trust our fast and reliable on-time delivery; they benefit from same-day despatch 
and avoid downtime. We also provide online and telephone technical support to help customers with their purchase 
decisions.
Ease of doing business — with no minimum order, customers can buy as few or as many parts as they need. They 
can choose how to transact with us (online, in person, by phone, mobile, email or fax), when they want to. Our award-
winning, easy-to-use free design tools and eCommerce solutions save customers time and money. 
All at a fair price — we change over 15 million prices every year to ensure we stay competitive and provide a range of 
around 40,000 own-brand products, ensuring best value for money. 12
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Our Strategy
Our global strategy comprises seven strategic priorities.
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR BUSINESS > OUR STRATEGY
See page 14 for the 
Group Chief 
Executive’s Review
See pages 02, 40 and 92 for 
Strategy in Action Case 
Studies
See page 20 for 
Key Performance 
Indicators
See page 28 for 
Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
Grow T arget 
Customers WITH
We will increase corporate customer 
numbers and our sales to existing 
customers by focusing on four core 
groups: Electronic Design Engineers, 
Machine and Panel Builders, 
Maintenance Engineers and Buyers.
Milestones in 2014:
 Corporate customer numbers 
increased by 3% during the year
 Sharing of best practice on 
deployment of the sales force 
led to improved sales growth 
performance in Europe
 Development of aligned sales, 
offer and marketing business plan 
for each customer type
 More effective management of 
customer life cycle
Focus for 2015:
 Large accounts strategy
 Develop our real-time customer 
feedback tools
KPIs:
 Group sales growth
 Customer numbers growth
Risks:
 Increasing competition
 Customer acquisition
One Global  
Offer AND
We will get more products to 
customers by making 75% to 85% 
of our range available to all our 
customers across the world without 
compromising our reliable, high 
level of service. We will be Famous 
For electronics and automation and 
control, and will focus on driving a 
higher return on stock.
Milestones in 2014:
 Famous For sales growth of 4%, 
around twice the Group sales 
growth rate
 Added c. 60,000 new products
 Developed more globally 
consistent range for products 
from TE Connectivity, Omron, 
ON Semiconductor, Panasonic, 
Honeywell and Phoenix Contact
 Reduced stock provisions as a 
percentage of gross stock
Focus for 2015:
 Continued development of more 
globally consistent range across 
RS and Allied
 Implement global planning tool 
across RS
 Develop and begin 
implementation of new product 
management tool
KPIs:
 Group sales growth
 Group return on sales
 Headline return on capital 
employed
 Headline free cash flow as a 
percentage of sales
 Famous For sales growth
Risks:
 Increasing competition
 Effective range management
 Product data integrity
 Regulatory compliance
eCommerce with 
a Human Touch 
PROVIDING
We will significantly develop 
eCommerce to acquire customers 
at a faster rate than before, and 
our medium-term target remains 
for 70% of our business to be 
transacted online. For high-value 
customers we will deploy our highly 
skilled sales people to nurture 
these opportunities. By allocating 
digital and human resources more 
effectively we will manage our 
customer base more profitably.
Milestones in 2014:
 eCommerce sales growth of 6%, 
around three times the Group 
sales growth rate 
 Improved search and browse 
functionality on websites
 eProcurement solutions sales 
growth of 13%
 Developed global nursery 
programme
Focus for 2015:
 Begin preparation for upgrade to 
web platform 
 Embed new ways of working to 
enable faster development of 
website functionality
 Increased spend on digital 
marketing
 Sales force best practice sharing
KPIs:
 Group sales growth
 eCommerce sales growth
Risks:
 Increasing competition
 Customer acquisition
  13
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our Business Our Performance
Value for 
Money WITH A
We will transform our customers’ 
perceptions of the value we offer 
them, through the consistent, global 
execution of our strategy. There 
will be a step change in how we 
communicate our value and why this 
sets us apart from the competition, 
supported by dynamic pricing.
Milestones in 2014:
 Delivered stable Group gross 
margin
 Product technology pricing 
strategies implemented across 
UK and Europe
 Discount effectiveness 
programme implemented across 
RS
 Increased capability to change 
and monitor prices
 Price perception measurement 
tool developed
Focus for 2015:
 Maintain focus on Group gross 
margin
 Implement product pricing 
strategies across Asia Pacific
 Implement price perception 
measurement tool
 Share best practice across RS 
and Allied
KPIs:
 Group sales growth
 Group return on sales
 Group gross margin
Risks:
 Increasing competition
 Customer acquisition
 Pricing risk
 Product data integrity
High  
P erformance T eam 
USING
Our people will ensure the 
successful delivery of our strategy. 
Our focus will be on driving a high 
performance culture that equips our 
people with the skills and capabilities 
that they need to achieve our growth 
ambitions.
Milestones in 2014:
 Successfully embedded new 
global operating model
 Established a Group change 
management and programme 
management capability
 Developed action plans to 
respond to first global employee 
engagement survey
 Second global engagement 
survey completed, resulting 
in an increase in employee 
engagement
Focus for 2015:
 Implement a global HR 
management system
 Enhance and act upon our 
employee engagement action 
plans
 Develop career structures
KPIs:
 Group lost time accident rate
Risks:
 People risk
Business 
Insight AND
We will increase our capability to turn 
data into insight and understanding, 
through consistent global data, 
improved data tools and a culture 
where we actively seek new insights.
Milestones in 2014:
 Implemented a new SAP-based 
business intelligence (BI) system
 Begun using new BI system to 
establish global product data tool
Focus for 2015:
 Resource and establish central BI 
capability
 Drive more effective insight of 
product data via BI system
 Begin using BI system to 
establish global customer data 
tools
Risks:
 Product data integrity
World Class Systems
We will create a world class 
infrastructure and our systems will be 
built on a single platform to give us 
pace and agility. A globally-connected 
freight network will deliver a fast, 
reliable service for customers.
Milestones in 2014:
 Implemented SAP-based system 
in South East Asia and Greater 
China
 Commenced implementation of 
disaster recovery system in Allied
 Begun development of new 
enterprise architecture
Focus for 2015:
 Implement SAP-based system 
in Japan
 Put new enterprise architecture 
foundations in place to enable 
faster pace of system and 
business change
 Implement additional 
environments for testing of 
system changes
Risks:
 Key infrastructure dependencies
 Cyber risk
  
   14
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Group Chief 
Executive’s Review
Market environment
The market environment improved as the year progressed. 
This was reflected in the Group’s sales growth rates, which 
improved from 1% in the first half (on a day-adjusted, 
constant currency basis) to 3% during the second half. This 
improvement did not occur in a consistent manner. After a 
step-up in sales growth rates in the autumn, growth faltered 
during December and January (these months were noticeably 
impacted by severe weather conditions in North America 
which kept many of our customers away from their workplace) 
before another step-up was seen in February and March. 
The most important indicator of our market conditions remains 
the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs). In the 
early part of the year the PMIs in the UK, Europe and Japan 
improved to a reading above 50, which is indicative of a return 
to growth in the manufacturing sector in these countries. In 
the US and China the PMIs have been relatively stable, with 
the US reading slightly above 50 and China reading around 50 
for most of the year. We believe that the Group’s improved 
sales growth performance in the second half of the year in 
part reflects this more favourable PMI backdrop.
Trade associations from within the electronics distribution 
industry, such as the Association of Franchised Distributors 
of Electronic Components (AFDEC) and National Electronic 
Distributors Association (NEDA), have reported improving 
activity levels from their members during the year. In addition, 
the large volume electronics distributors have reported a 
return to sales growth during the year and improving order 
book trends. This more favourable electronics environment 
has also begun to feed through to our business, with our 
electronics product categories, an important part of our 
Famous For product range, showing a return to sales growth 
of 3% in the year, having been in slight decline for much of 
the past two years.
Whilst our market backdrop is more robust than it was a 
year ago it remains difficult to predict future sales growth, 
particularly given our limited order book visibility.
International share gains and margin expansion
During the year the International business grew sales by 4% 
(on a day-adjusted, constant currency basis). Whilst there 
has been a more favourable market backdrop as the year has 
progressed we have supplemented this by taking market 
share from the numerous small distributors against whom we 
primarily compete. 
Within the International business the share gains have been 
greatest in our Continental Europe region. This partly reflects 
the fact that many of our smaller competitors in this region 
have found it difficult to obtain credit for several years now 
and therefore they have not been able to significantly invest 
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
>  1 million
 customers
Global Market 
Circa £30 billion
Electrocomponents 
leading distributor
See page 08 for 
Marketplace
Market environment
Opportunity to take a larger share of growing markets
FUTURE
NOW
Reaching c. 90% of global GDP
Group sales growth
2.1% 
(20 13: 0.5%)
See page 20 for 
Key Performance Indicators Our Business
15
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
in their product range, website or sales capabilities. This has 
created an opportunity for the larger global competitors, such 
as Electrocomponents, to gain market share by continuing 
to invest in these areas to enhance their service levels. 
Continental Europe is also the region where the Group has 
made the greatest progress in implementing the new global 
strategy, particularly with regards to the sharing and rolling out 
of global best practice in sales and marketing. The progress 
we have made implementing our new global strategy is 
discussed further below.
When we introduced our global strategy last year we 
highlighted that during the period 2006 to 2013 around half 
of the 6% compound annual growth rate achieved by our 
International business was generated by share gains, with the 
other half coming from market growth. Our global strategy, 
introduced last year, is seeking to alter this sales growth 
composition such that more than half of our International 
growth comes from share gains, reducing our dependency on 
the market rate of growth.
The rate of sales growth of our International business is 
particularly important as this is where we have the greatest 
ability to generate economies of scale and improve the 
International business’ contribution margin. Our UK business, 
where we are well penetrated in the marketplace having 
operated there for over 75 years, generates a contribution 
margin of around 28–29% which we believe is sustainable. 
Our International business, in contrast, generated a 
contribution margin of 16.7% last year. Whilst this was an 
improvement of around 70 basis points on the prior year, it 
is still considerably below the UK contribution margin. With 
all regions achieving similar levels of gross margin as the UK, 
except for North America (where the industry gross margin is 
lower), there is a significant opportunity for the International 
business to expand its contribution margin towards the UK 
level as it grows and generates economies of scale. 
UK profitability
When we introduced our global strategy last year we raised 
our ambitions for the UK business, targeting an average 
of 1% to 2% per annum sales and contribution growth 
through the cycle, rather than seeking to maintain absolute 
contribution levels as had previously been the case. This 
increased ambition for the UK is based on our view that the 
UK manufacturing sector now provides a more stable trading 
environment than it did a decade ago. 
During the year the UK business’ sales declined by 2% (on a 
day-adjusted, constant currency basis). Sales trends improved 
in the second half versus the first half, but not by as much as 
we had expected given the improvement in UK manufacturing 
PMI. Consequently, we have made a number of senior 
management changes. Whilst the UK sales performance was 
disappointing the UK business did improve its contribution 
margin by 120 basis points to 28.7% due to an increase 
in gross margin and good control of operating costs, and 
contribution increased by 4%.
Strategy implementation
A new global strategy and a new global operating model 
for the business were introduced last year in order to put 
the business in the best possible position to capture the 
international growth opportunity described above whilst 
maintaining our strong UK position and profitability. 
In the past 12 months the new global operating model has 
bedded down, and there has been good early progress 
implementing the global strategy and delivering our seven 
strategic priorities (comprising four growth initiatives 
supported by three enablers). Below is information on some 
of the key strategic milestones achieved over the past year. 
A summary of each element of the strategy, the milestones 
achieved during the past year and the focus for the coming 
year, can be found on pages 12 and 13, Our Strategy. 
Accompanying the global strategy last year we also set out 
a new medium-term performance framework to reflect our 
increased ambition. We report on the four elements of this 
medium-term performance framework, together with key 
operational performance measures that we use to monitor 
our strategic progress, on pages 20 and 21, Key Performance 
Indicators.
International sales growth
3.8% 
(20 13: 0.8% decline)
See page 22 for 
Business and Financial Review
International contribution margin
16.7% 
(20 13: 16.0%)
See page 10 for our
Business Model
UK contribution margin
28.7% 
(20 13: 27 .5%)
See page 12 for 
Our Strategy 16
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Strategic progress during the year
Four Growth Initiatives
1.  Grow T arget Customers 
Across the Group, corporate customer numbers have 
increased by 3% since the end of last year. 
Some of this growth reflects the initial realisation of the 
benefits from sharing best practice on when and how to 
deploy the human touch to more effectively grow customer 
numbers. For example, our French business had previously 
developed a customer qualification process, working with our 
suppliers to identify which industry sectors and customers 
had high growth potential and warranted a targeted sales 
approach. During the year we shared this best practice 
from France with our smaller European markets, helping 
businesses like our Spanish business attract new customers 
and deliver strong underlying sales growth in the period.
Customer growth was also aided by driving a significant 
increase in traffic to our websites and our continued focus 
on providing great service to engineers via our family of 
free, easy-to-use design tools, DesignSpark. In the middle 
of the year we successfully launched our latest such tool, 
DesignSpark Mechanical. This fast 3D modelling and assembly 
tool brings 3D design capability to mechanical engineers, 
helping them to bring innovative products to market quickly. 
In the first seven months following its launch there have 
been over 70,000 activations of the software, with a large 
proportion of these coming from new contacts.
We also made progress developing an integrated strategy for 
each of our four target customer types to ensure our sales, 
offer and marketing approach and service levels are targeted 
to each group, and we are now managing customers more 
effectively across the customer life cycle.
2. One Global Offer 
 
Our five product categories are built to service our four target 
customer groups and there are clear, distinct strategies for 
each. Our Famous For range, comprising semiconductors, 
interconnect, passives and electromechanical, and automation 
and control product categories, are actively promoted and 
are the primary growth driver for the Group. During the year, 
the Famous For range grew underlying sales by 4%, around 
twice the Group sales growth rate. Our two other product 
categories, electrical, test and measurement, and tools and 
consumables, are included in our Other Maintenance range. 
We aim to defend and grow these product categories whilst 
focusing on return on stock.
Across the Group we added around 60,000 new products to 
our range during the year, slightly below the 70,000 products 
added in the previous year. This is in line with our objectives 
of improving the quality of our range by focusing new product 
investment on the Famous For product categories and 
building a more consistent global offer. During the year we 
took our first significant steps towards this second element. 
We have completed the build of a more consistent global offer 
across RS and Allied for our TE Connectivity product range, 
and have begun this process with ON Semiconductor, Omron, 
Honeywell, Panasonic and Phoenix Contact.  This means that 
there are around 30,000 additional products now available 
to customers globally that previously were only available in 
certain regions. As at the end of the year, around 10% of 
our product range was available to customers anywhere in 
the world. These initial pilots have successfully proven the 
concept, and moving forward we will now look to scale up our 
ability to conduct a range level-up so that we can proceed at a 
faster pace over the next few years.
The new way in which we manage our product categories has 
enabled us to improve our management of our stock. Stock 
provisions as a percentage of gross stock have fallen from 
11% last year to 10% this year. All of the above has been 
achieved whilst maintaining our high and reliable levels of 
service.
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Our Business
17
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
3.  eCommerce with a Human T ouch 
During the year our eCommerce channel grew sales at 6% in 
the year, significantly ahead of the 2% Group sales growth. 
eCommerce channel share, up 2% points in the year to 58%, 
continues to move towards our medium-term target of 70%.
This growth has been driven by a number of factors, including 
enhanced search functionality, increased investment in 
search engine marketing (SEM) and the clear value provided 
by our human touch, which manifests itself in the strong 
sales performance of our eProcurement solutions for larger 
customers and in our Live Chat service, amongst other 
initiatives.
Improved search functionality has made it even easier 
for our customers to do business with us. Visitors to our 
websites now get more relevant and clearer product 
information and have the ability to browse quick views of 
product specifications. Together with improvements we have 
made to the speed and effectiveness of the search filtering 
functionality, customers are now able to find and buy the 
products they need faster. 
We have driven a significant increase in traffic to our RS 
websites over the year, reflecting an increase in SEM 
investment of over 10%. Offsetting this increased SEM 
spend has been a reduction in our expenditure on catalogue 
marketing of a broadly equivalent amount.
Our eProcurement solution, sales of which grew by 13% 
in the year, helps large customers reduce their total cost of 
procurement. During the year our sales force worked hard to 
market the solution’s benefits, resulting in sales to our large 
customers across RS outperforming the overall customer 
base. We also completed the global roll-out of our Live Chat 
service across RS during the year. The service includes both 
sales chats, when customers are invited to chat based on their 
behaviour on site, and service chats, when customers can 
click a button to initiate a chat themselves. This service is now 
live in 29 countries in 19 languages across the world. 
4. Value for Money 
 
This strategic priority is concerned with improving customers’ 
perception of our range, availability and price. This is 
underpinned by our global price differentiation strategy, 
which is designed to enable us to capture more value from 
our slower-moving products. This will partially mitigate 
our investment in margin to improve our value for money 
proposition to customers of our fast-moving products.  We 
made particular progress with this strategy in the UK and 
Continental Europe, and have begun to implement this 
strategy in Asia Pacific. This strategy, together with actions 
implemented to improve our customer discount effectiveness, 
has enabled the business to deliver a broadly stable Group 
gross margin in the year (see Operational KPIs on page 21). 
During the year we significantly increased our communication 
on our Value for Money strategic priority and we also carried 
out pricing experiments to improve our knowledge of how 
different product categories react to price movements 
and price messaging. We rolled out a price perception 
measurement tool in the UK, the US and China to help us 
understand how both existing and potential customers view 
our prices, and plan to take this tool into more of our markets 
during the coming year. 
Three Strategic Enablers
1. High Performance T eam 
 
The major milestone for this strategic priority was the 
achievement of a smooth transition from our previous country-
based operating structure to a global operating model that is 
functionally-based but which retains the value of a local sales 
presence.
Our first global employee engagement survey in spring 2013 
showed above average levels of employee engagement. 
During the year we then developed action plans across the 
Group to enable us to improve upon these levels of employee 
engagement and in spring 2014 we undertook our second 
global employee engagement survey to check how we 
were progressing with these action plans. This reported an 
New products added
c. 60,000
(20 13: c. 70,000)
See page 02 for our
Strategy in Action
eCommerce sales growth
6% 
(20 13: 4%)
See page 92 for our 
Strategy in Action
Gross margin stability
45.9% 
(20 13: 46.0%)
See page 22 for 
Business and Financial Review 18
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
improvement in employee engagement levels, which we will 
look to build on in the coming year. We have also invested in 
building our programme management capabilities to ensure 
we are well-equipped to deliver our growth ambitions.
2. Business Insight 
 
During the year we defined, built, installed and implemented 
a new SAP-based business intelligence system on time and in 
budget. The systems will support quicker and more effective 
data analysis and insight. We are leveraging this new system 
to establish global product data tools. We are now generating 
product reports significantly faster than before and are putting 
in place training to enable users to utilise these tools and 
reports to generate improved product insight for the business.
3.  World Class Systems 
 
During the year we successfully installed a SAP-based system 
in South East Asia and Greater China. These are the second 
and third of our four sub-regions in Asia Pacific to move to 
this system, following Australasia which went live with its 
new system in December 2012. Asia Pacific is the last of the 
Group’s regions to move to a SAP-based system. During the 
coming year our systems implementation focus moves to 
the final sub-region, Japan. Having all four global regions on 
a common SAP-based system will allow all of our markets 
to have greater and faster access to the Group’s strategic 
initiatives.
We have begun the initial work required to separate the 
front office, middle office and back office of our systems 
architecture to enable more change to occur in the business, 
faster; this work will continue into the coming year. We have 
also commenced the installation of a new disaster recovery 
system for Allied.
Strategic focus for next year
Looking into the 2015 financial year, the strategic emphasis 
will be on our One Global Offer and eCommerce with a 
Human Touch strategic priorities, though as highlighted 
on pages 12 and 13, Our Strategy, there will be ongoing 
developments in all seven of our strategic elements next year.
Within the One Global Offer strategy we plan to work with 
more of our major suppliers to build a more consistent global 
range in their product categories, using the lessons we 
learnt this year to enable us to move faster as we extend the 
process to additional suppliers. We also intend to implement a 
global planning tool that will improve our supply chain planning 
effectiveness and demand planning across the RS distribution 
network. The third major area of focus for this strategic priority 
next year is the development of a new product management 
tool to allow us to consistently manage the life cycle of our 
products globally whilst remaining compliant with local market 
regulations. 
The eCommerce with a Human Touch strategic focus will be 
on the preparation for the upgrade of our web platform which 
we plan to commence during the year. This will be designed 
to enable improved functionality to enhance our competitive 
edge and alongside this we will embed new ways of working 
to enable us to drive a faster pace of change to our website.
Other important strategic developments planned for the 
coming year include the roll-out of a SAP-based system 
in Japan. This will complete the SAP-based system 
implementation in Asia Pacific, the last of the Group’s regions 
to move to this system. We also plan further systems 
investment in order to enable the business to make more 
changes faster, including a new enterprise architecture as well 
as a second testing environment.
We will retain our focus on growing our four customer 
types, implementing a new customer insight tool and 
communicating our value proposition in a globally consistent 
manner to improve brand awareness.
Current trading and outlook
In the first seven weeks of the new financial year the Group 
has delivered sales growth of 2%. Sales trends in May to date 
have improved as compared to April, which was impacted by 
the timing of Easter holidays. The International business grew 
by 4% and the UK declined by 3% (UK sales decline excluding 
Raspberry Pi was 2%). Within International, Continental 
Europe grew by 1%, North America grew by 6% and Asia 
Pacific grew by 8%.
Whilst the global economic recovery is uneven and there are 
foreign exchange headwinds, we will continue to invest in 
our strategic initiatives. We expect to make further progress 
towards our medium-term performance goals during the 
coming year.
Ian Mason   
Group Chief Executive  
22 May 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued Our Business
19
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our Famous For Product Categories.
The product categories below constitute around 55% of our sales; they will 
be our growth drivers and we expect them to grow at around twice GDP 
through the cycle.
Semiconductors 
Semiconductors are at the heart 
of any electronic device and the 
starting point of any new electronics 
design. This is why our customers 
need them and this is why we focus 
on providing a broad range of high 
quality products.
Interconnect, Passives and 
Electromechanical (IP&E) 
Virtually all electronic and electrical 
systems require interconnect, 
passive and electromechanical 
components. Thanks to the strong 
relationships we have with our 
IP&E suppliers, we can offer our 
customers quick, easy access to the 
broadest range and most innovative 
components on the market.
Automation and Control (A&C) 
We are committed to enhancing our 
portfolio of A&C products, including 
stop switches, motor controls 
and industrial cabinets. We are 
focused on being the main supplier 
for small and medium enterprises 
machine and panel builders, on-site 
maintenance engineers and buyers. 20
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Key Performance Indicators
Priority Financial KPIs Definition Performance
 
 
Group sales growth
We are targeting an average Group sales growth rate of 5% 
to 8% per annum through the cycle. This compares with our 
historical average of 4% Group sales growth per annum. We 
expect International sales growth to average between 7% and 
10% per annum through the cycle (compared with a historic 
average of 6% per annum), and we expect UK sales growth 
to average between 1% and 2% per annum through the cycle 
(compared with a historic average of 1% per annum).
Underlying sales 
growth, adjusted 
for trading days 
and currency 
movements.
2014 2.1%
2013 0.5%
2012 6.9%
An improvement on 2013 
but below the target 
range, reflecting the 
early stage of the global 
economic recovery.
 
 
Group return on sales
We are targeting a through the cycle Group operating margin 
range of between 9% and 11%, which would represent an 
improvement on our historical performance of 7% to 10% 
(adjusted to reflect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix). This 
improvement is primarily driven by operating cost leverage. 
Our targets also assume that Group gross margin will reduce 
by around two percentage points over the medium term as 
we grow faster in lower-margin technologies and countries. 
Our global pricing strategy will enable us to partially mitigate 
the investment in margin we will make to improve our value 
for money proposition to customers.
Headline 
operating profit 
expressed as a 
percentage of 
sales.
2014 8.3%
2013 8.1%
2012 10.1%
An improvement on 2013 
but below our target 
range.
 
 
Return on capital employed
Historically, the Group’s return on capital employed (including 
goodwill) has ranged between 15% and 25%, significantly 
above the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. We are 
targeting to raise this range to between 20% and 30% as the 
benefits of faster sales growth and continued strong cash 
generation are realised.
Headline 
operating profit 
expressed as a 
percentage of 
net assets plus 
net debt.
2014 20.9%
2013 18.5%
2012 24.6%
An improvement on 2013 
and within our target 
range.
 
Headline free cash flow as a percentage of sales
Our global strategy is being supported by increased 
investment. Combined with a slight improvement in stock 
turns and improved profitability we are targeting medium-term 
Group headline free cash flow to range between 4% and 6%.
Headline free 
cash flow is 
reported free 
cash flow before 
reorganisation 
cash flows. This 
is expressed as 
a percentage of 
Group sales.
2014 4.6%
2013 4.5%
2012 4.2%
Slightly above 2013 and 
within our target range.
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our Business
21
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Priority Operational KPIs Definition Performance
 
Growth in customer numbers
In order to achieve our Group sales growth targets we will 
need to increase both corporate customer numbers and our 
sales to existing customers, with the first of these expected 
to be of greatest importance as we seek to increase our 
market share in our international markets.
Percentage 
increase in 
number of 
corporate 
customers 
placing an order 
during the year.
2014 3%
2013 3%
2012 n/a
3% growth in Group 
corporate customer 
numbers.
Group eCommerce sales growth 
For the Group to deliver its Group sales growth target and 
achieve its medium-term growth ambitions it will need to 
continue to successfully grow its eCommerce business. 
We expect that eCommerce sales growth rate should 
consistently exceed the Group sales growth rate.
Growth in Group 
eCommerce 
sales.
2014 6%
2013 4%
2012 18%
Group eCommerce 
sales growth was 6%, 
significantly ahead of the 
overall Group sales growth.
 
Famous For product sales growth 
For the Group to deliver its Group sales growth target and 
achieve its medium-term growth ambitions it will also need 
to achieve its aim of being Famous For electronics and 
automation and control product ranges. We expect that the 
sales growth rate of our Famous For product ranges should 
consistently exceed the Group sales growth rate.
Growth in 
Famous For 
product sales.
2014 4%
2013 2%
2012 n/a
Famous For product sales 
growth was 4%, around 
twice the growth rate of 
the Group’s full product 
range.
 
Group gross margin 
A key component of the Group’s medium term return on 
sales target is the delivery of a broadly stable Group gross 
margin, before allowing for product or geographical mix 
effects and currency movements. After allowing for mix 
effects, we expect Group gross margin to reduce by around 
two percentage points over the medium-term.
Group gross 
profit expressed 
as a percentage 
of Group sales.
2014 45.9%
2013 46.0%
2012 46.8%
Group gross margin was 
stable.
 
 
Group lost time accident rate 
The delivery of the Group’s global strategy is dependent 
on our largest asset, our workforce, and we are committed 
to providing a safe and healthy work environment. We are 
targeting an ongoing reduction in the rate at which time 
is lost due to our employees suffering accidents in the 
workplace.
Number of lost 
time accidents 
per 200,000 
hours worked.
2014 0.42
2013 0.60
2012 0.78
30% reduction in the 
Group lost time accident 
rate.
Grow T arget 
Customers
 
One Global 
Offer
eCommerce 
with a Human 
Touch
 
Value for 
Money
 
High  
Performance 
Team
 
Business 
Insight
 
World Class 
Systems 22
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Business and 
Financial Review
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND POSITION
Financial Performance 2014
 2013
as restated
1
Sales £1,273.1m £1,235.6m
Gross margin 45.9% 46.0%
Headline contribution
2
£257 .9m £241 .0m
Headline Group Process costs
2
£(151.8)m £(141 .3)m
Headline operating profit
2
£106.1m £99.7m
Headline return on sales
2
8.3% 8.1%
Interest (net) £(5.0)m £(5.6)m
Headline profit before tax
2
£101.1m £94.1m
Headline free cash flow
2
£58.3m £56.1m
Headline earnings per share
2
16.3p 14.9p
Dividend per share
3
11.75p 11 .75p
Net debt to EBITDA
4
1.1x 1 .2x
1. Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details 
refer to note 1 on page 102
2. Headline measures of profitability and cash flow are defined as the relevant 
reported profit/cash flow measure before reorganisation costs/cash flows. 
Additional trading days and currency movements increased headline profit 
before tax by £4 million
3. 2014: comprises 5p interim and 6.75p proposed final dividend 
4. EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation  
(inc. government grants)
Sales
Group sales were £1,273.1 million, representing underlying 
sales growth of 2.1%. Group eCommerce sales growth was 
6%, with eCommerce averaging 58% of Group sales during 
the year. Our Famous For products (comprising around 55% 
of Group sales) grew by 3.7%. These products outperformed 
our Other Maintenance products (comprising around 45% of 
Group sales), sales of which grew by 0.2%. 
Additional trading days and currency movements increased 
Group reported sales by around £12 million.
Gross margin
Group gross margin at 45.9% was stable with the prior 
year. This reflected favourable currency movements, offset 
by adverse geographic mix and some price repositioning in 
certain markets. 
Costs
Headline operating costs at constant currency increased by 
2.3% (1 .9% as reported). We benefited from the annualisation 
of the cost efficiencies arising from last year’s implementation 
of a global organisation structure amounting to £3 million in the 
year, all of which was reflected in the first half, together with 
lower stock provisions. These benefits were offset by fixed cost 
inflation, increased IT costs, higher depreciation and investment 
in our strategic growth initiatives, which was particularly 
focused on the second half. These factors are expected to 
continue into the coming financial year, leading to expected 
growth in headline operating costs at constant currency of 
around 5%.
Headline profit before tax
Headline profit before tax was £101 .1 million, an increase 
of £7 .0 million (or 7 .4%) on the prior year.  The International 
business’ contribution increased by £12.6 million (9.1%), 
driven by a strong performance from Continental Europe and 
North America, whilst the UK’s contribution increased by 
£4.3 million (4.2%). Process costs increased by £10.5 million 
(7 .4%), primarily reflecting inflation and additional IT costs and 
depreciation associated with the implementation of our global 
strategy. Net interest costs reduced by £0.6 million, reflecting 
lower net debt levels and lower interest costs associated with 
our new multicurrency European cash pool.
Group headline profit before tax benefited by £4 million due to 
additional trading days and currency movements.
Reported profit before tax
Reported profit before tax, which comprises headline profit 
before tax after reorganisation costs, increased by 16.6%. This 
increase was above the 7 .4% increase in headline profit before 
tax due to the absence of exceptional items in the year. In the 
prior year non-recurring reorganisation costs of £7 .4 million 
arose, primarily relating to redundancy charges arising from 
the implementation of the global organisation structure. 
T axation
The Group’s effective tax rate was 29% of headline profit 
before tax, 2% points lower than the prior year, primarily 
reflecting the reduction in the UK corporate tax rate. The 
effective tax rate on reported profit before tax was 29%.  The 
Group’s effective tax rate includes the effect of a significant 
and continuing increase in the deferred tax liability due to the 
tax amortisation of overseas goodwill. This deferred tax liability 
is not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future. The 
effective tax rate was higher than the cash tax rate of 24% of 
headline profit before tax, which is expected to increase going 
forward as prior-year tax losses are utilised.
During the year the Board reviewed and endorsed the Group’s 
tax strategy. The strategy seeks to ensure that key tax risks 
are appropriately mitigated, that appropriate taxes are paid 
in each jurisdiction where the Group operates, and that the 
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Our Business
23
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Group’s reputation as a responsible taxpayer is safeguarded. 
We are committed to having a positive relationship with 
tax authorities, and to dealing with our tax affairs in a 
straightforward, open and honest manner. 
Headline earnings per share
Headline earnings per share of 16.3p increased by 9%. This 
was slightly above the increase in headline profit before tax, 
reflecting the decrease in the effective tax rate noted above.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a maintained final dividend of 6.75p 
per share. This will be paid on 29 July 2014 to shareholders on 
the register on 27 June 2014. As a result, the total dividend 
for the financial year will be maintained at 11 .75p per share, 
resulting in headline earnings dividend cover of 1 .4 times. The 
business has significant opportunities to invest for growth at 
attractive returns and we intend to maintain a strong balance 
sheet. As previously stated, over time and as earnings 
increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend 
policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover 
towards two times.
Cash flow
Headline free cash flow for the year of £58.3 million was 4% 
above the prior-year level, with the increase in headline profit 
before tax partially offset by increased capital expenditure. 
Stock turn improved from 2.5 times to 2.7 times, or 2.6 times 
on a consistent currency basis. Next year we expect stock 
turn to be around 2.5 times.
As planned, net capital expenditure increased by  
£8.2 million from £27 .4 million to £35.6 million. All of this 
growth in capital expenditure arose in the second half, 
reflecting the commencement of our investment in several 
strategic initiatives following a period of planning. We 
invested in a SAP-based business intelligence system and 
commenced investment in a new enterprise architecture to 
enable the business to make more system changes, faster. 
We also continued to roll out a SAP-based IT system across 
Asia Pacific, the last region to move to this system, with its 
successful installation in South East Asia and Greater China. 
Next year we expect capital expenditure to be around  
£40 million, consistent with the planned investment in our 
global strategy. We plan to complete the system investment 
in Asia Pacific, with Japan being the final market to transition 
to a new SAP-based IT system. Additional investment will be 
targeted at our strategic priorities, including a new enterprise 
architecture, preparation for an upgrade of our web platform, 
enhanced website functionality and systems to enable a more 
consistent global offer across RS and Allied.
Financial position
At 31 March 2014 net debt was £143.6 million. This was  
£16.1 million lower than last year, reflecting positive free 
cash flow after dividend payments together with currency 
movements.  
Year-end net debt comprised gross borrowings of £144.2 
million (currency split: £58.3 million in US Dollars,  
£58.8 million in Sterling, £23.6 million in Euros and the 
balance in other currencies) and financial assets of £0.7 
million. The currency mix is designed to partially hedge the 
Group’s translation exposures. The peak month-end net 
borrowing during the year was £175.1 million. 
The Group’s committed debt finance comprises a syndicated 
multi-currency facility (currency split: US Dollars $75 million, 
Sterling £120 million, Euros €50 million) maturing in November 
2015, together with $150 million of US Private Placement 
notes ($65 million with a June 2015 maturity and $85 million 
with a June 2017 maturity). Taken together, the Group’s 
committed debt facilities and loans amount to £296.9 million, 
of which £169.1 million was undrawn as at 31 March 2014.
The Group’s financial metrics remain strong with net debt 
to EBITDA of 1 .1 times, gearing of 39%, and EBITA interest 
cover of 24.7 times, with significant headroom to the Group’s 
banking covenants.
Pension 
The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, 
Ireland and Germany, the largest of which is the UK scheme. 
All these schemes are closed to new entrants. The German 
and Irish schemes are closed to accruals for future service.
Under IAS 19R the combined gross deficit of the Group’s 
defined benefit schemes was £40.9 million as at 31 March 
2014 (UK deficit: £33.7 million, Germany deficit: £6.2 million, 
Republic of Ireland deficit: £1 .0 million deficit). The UK 
deficit increased from a deficit of £12.4 million at 31 March 
2013, reflecting higher liabilities (due to the use of updated 
census data for the current triennial valuation and higher life 
expectancy assumptions) together with actuarial losses due 
to returns on assets being lower than expected; these factors 
were only partially offset by a higher discount rate. In order to 
mitigate the increase in the UK deficit the Company has been 
consulting with active members of the scheme regarding 
changes to benefits. These changes involve lowering the cap 
on the level of salary which is pensionable and increasing 
member contributions. Members are in the process of making 
decisions in respect of their future pension provision. The 
triennial actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit scheme 
is currently ongoing and due to complete in summer 2014.
Amendments to IAS 19, which became effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013, have resulted in the use 
of a lower rate of return on assets and a £4.4 million increase 
in the 2014 pension charge, which totalled £7 .2 million. The 
prior-year pension charge has also been restated to reflect 
these amendments (IAS 19R restatement £4.6 million, total 
pension charge £6.4 million). The £1 .2 million increase in the 
pension charge is mainly due to lower discount rates used to 
value scheme liabilities. 24
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
INTERNA TIONAL
2014 2013
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £898.8m £860.5m 4.5% 3.8%
Gross margin 44.1% 44.6%
Operating costs £(246.2)m £(245.7)m (0.2)% (0.6)%
Contribution £150.4m £137.8m 9.1% 8.8%
Contribution % 
of sales 16.7% 16.0%
1. Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
The International business represents over 70% of Group 
revenue and comprises three regions: Continental Europe 
(51% of the International business), North America (31%) and 
Asia Pacific (18%). 
During the year, underlying sales increased by 3.8%. Within 
International, both Continental Europe and North America 
grew underlying sales by 4% and underlying sales in Asia 
Pacific grew by 2%. All of our emerging markets continued to 
deliver strong sales growth, particularly Eastern Europe and 
South Africa. International eCommerce sales grew by 10%, 
more than twice the rate of the overall International business, 
driven by a strong performance from North America and 
Continental Europe.
Gross margin reduced by 0.5% points. This was impacted 
by adverse currency movements, negative product mix (due 
mainly to Raspberry Pi) and some price repositioning and 
discounting in certain markets. 
Operating costs at constant currency grew by 0.6%, with 
fixed cost inflation and investment in search engine marketing 
partially offset by the annualisation of cost efficiencies 
associated with the prior-year reorganisation and lower stock 
provisions.
The above combination of sales growth, lower gross margin 
and increased costs resulted in the International contribution 
as a percentage of sales increasing by 0.7% points to 16.7%.
CONTINENT AL EUROPE
2014 2013
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £460.6m £426.2m 8.1% 4.1%
Contribution £99.4m £90.9m 9.4% 5.6%
Contribution % 
of sales 21 .6% 21 .3%
1. Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
Our business in Continental Europe operates in 15 markets. 
The largest of these are France, Germany and Italy, which 
together comprise around 70% of sales in the region. The 
remaining markets are Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, 
Denmark, Hungary, the Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands, 
Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
Continental Europe delivered underlying sales growth of 
4.1%. All markets in the region contributed to this growth, 
notably Germany, which benefited from strong sales of 
Raspberry Pi, and smaller markets such as Spain, Benelux, 
Scandinavia and Eastern Europe. Regional growth improved 
as the year progressed, increasing from around 3% in the first 
half to 5% in the second half. This improvement was partly 
due to the more favourable PMI backdrop but also reflected 
good progress implementing in the new global strategy, 
particularly with regards to the sharing of best practice in 
sales and marketing to enhance our customer proposition.
eCommerce has played a key role in the region’s success. 
Continental Europe is the region with the highest eCommerce 
penetration in the Group, averaging 69% share of sales in 
the year (compared with 66% in the prior year) and exiting 
the year at 70%. eCommerce sales grew by 8% in the year, 
around twice the rate of the region’s overall sales, driven by 
sales of our leading eProcurement solution. This helped the 
region gain 20 corporate accounts during the year. 
The 5.6% increase in underlying contribution reflected 
positive operating cost leverage and also benefited from the 
annualisation of the cost efficiencies associated with the prior-
year reorganisation and lower stock provisions. 
International: 
71% of Group 
sales
Continental Europe:
36% of Group 
sales
 56% eCommerce sales share in  2014
 15 distribution centres
 3,100 full-time equivalent employees
 69% eCommerce sales share in 2014
 6 distribution centres
 1,400 full-time equivalent employees Our Business
25
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
NORTH AMERICA
2014 2013
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £281 .3m £268.6m 4.7% 4.2%
Contribution £39.1m £34.9m 12.0% 14.3%
Contribution % 
of sales 13.9% 13.0%
1. Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
Allied, our North American business, reported underlying 
sales growth of 4.2%. Growth rates improved as the year 
progressed, with the exception of a temporary but significant 
impact from adverse weather conditions during December 
and January which prevented many customers from getting 
to work. The improvement in sales growth rates during the 
year partly reflected easier comparators, but also reflected a 
gradual recovery in the electronics market.
Business performance benefited from enhancements to 
Allied’s electronics and automation and control range, with 
around 42,000 new products added to the range, which is 
significantly above its usual annual run-rate of 25,000–30,000 
products. This reflected the commencement of our strategy 
to build a more consistent global offer across RS and Allied. 
During the year we completed this process with our largest 
electronics supplier TE Connectivity and began the process 
with other leading global suppliers ON Semiconductor, 
Omron, Honeywell, Panasonic and Phoenix Contact. 
The restoration of full online functionality during the year 
(following the SAP-based system implementation in the prior 
year there was a temporary reduction in online functionality) 
led to a strong recovery in Allied’s eCommerce performance, 
with eCommerce sales growth of 19%. eCommerce sales 
averaged 39% during the year (compared with 34% in 2013), 
and this metric has now returned to the 40% level it reached 
prior to SAP implementation.
The 14.3% increase in underlying contribution reflected 
positive operating cost leverage partly offset by costs related 
to the strategy to build a more consistent global offer.
ASIA P ACIFIC
2014 2013
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
1
Sales £156.9m £165.7m (5.3)% 2.1%
Contribution £11.9m £12.0m (0.8)% 19.8%
Contribution % 
of sales 7 .6% 7 .2%
1. Adjusted for currency; sales also adjusted for trading days
Our Asia Pacific business is the region’s market leader and 
comprises four similarly-sized sub-regions: Australasia, Greater 
China, Japan and South East Asia. 
Underlying sales in the region increased by 2.1% in the 
year, improving from flat in the first half to 4% growth in the 
second half. This in-year improvement was principally due to 
a pick-up in growth rates in Japan and a return to growth in 
Australasia and South East Asia following a period when both 
of these markets had been impacted by the slowdown in the 
resources-related sectors. Greater China remained in growth 
during the year.
Our Japanese business benefited from improving PMIs, easier 
comparators and a gradual recovery in the electronics market. 
However, our Japanese business also improved performance 
by enhancing its customer offer. This included increased focus 
on its automation and control range and the targeting of large 
customer accounts with eProcurement solutions. Across 
the region 46 corporate accounts were added to the large 
customer portfolio during the year. 
The improvement in sales growth in Japan, which has a 
high eCommerce sales share of around 75%, contributed 
to regional eCommerce sales growth of 5% exceeding the 
overall regional sales growth of 2%. The region’s eCommerce 
sales share improved slightly to 50%.
Asia Pacific’s contribution margin improved by 40 basis points 
to 7 .6%, mainly reflecting positive operating cost leverage and 
lower marketing costs after the prior-year period included set-
up costs for the RS Infinity customer loyalty programme. 
North America:
22% of Group sales 
Asia Paciﬁc:
13% of Group sales
 39% eCommerce sales share in 2014
 1 distribution centre
 700 full-time equivalent employees
 50% eCommerce sales share in 2014
 8 distribution centres
 1,000 full-time equivalent employees 23079.04 - Proof 1 -2 June 2014 1:57 PM
26
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
UK
2014
2013
as restated
1
Growth
reported
Growth
underlying
2
Sales £374.3m £375.1m (0.2)% (1 .8)%
Gross margin 50.0% 49.3%
Operating costs £(79.8)m £(81 .7)m 2.3% 2.3%
Contribution £107 .5m £103.2m 4.2% 4.2%
Contribution % 
of sales 28.7% 27 .5%
1. Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details 
refer to note 1 on page 102
2. Sales adjusted for trading days
Our UK operation is the largest high service distributor in 
its market. Against strong comparators the UK business’ 
underlying sales declined by 1 .8%, 0.6% excluding sales of 
Raspberry Pi. There was a slight improvement in sales trends 
following the pick-up in the UK manufacturing PMI, with UK 
sales excluding Raspberry Pi flat in the final quarter. However, 
this improvement was not as significant as we had expected 
and we have made several senior management changes.
We added 16 corporate accounts during the year but 
experienced a softening of demand in the latter part of the 
year from some existing corporate accounts, particularly 
those in the manufacturing, utilities and defence sectors. 
eCommerce sales declined by 1%, outperforming the overall 
UK business, and eCommerce sales share averaged 62%, 
which was similar to the prior year. 
Despite declining sales UK contribution increased by 4.2%, 
delivering a 120 basis point improvement in the contribution 
margin to 28.7%. This reflected an increase in gross margin 
of 0.7% points, due to favourable currency movements, 
favourable product mix and benefits from our global pricing 
strategy, together with a 2.3% reduction in operating costs, 
reflecting the annualisation of cost efficiencies associated 
with the prior-year reorganisation and lower stock provisions.  
PROCESSES
2014
2013
as restated
1
Change 
reported
Change 
underlying
2
Process costs £(151 .8)m £(141 .3)m (7 .4)% (8.0)%
Costs % of 
sales (11 .9)% (11 .4)%
1. Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details 
refer to note 1 on page 102
2. Adjusted for currency
The Processes principally comprise our teams that 
manage our Group-wide marketing, offer and IT activities, 
together with Group management and head office costs. 
These Processes have responsibility for the identification, 
introduction and sourcing of the Group’s products, managing 
supplier relationships, developing the Group’s marketing 
strategy and its implementation, managing the Group’s stock 
and overseeing the Group’s worldwide IT infrastructure.
Process costs rose by 8.0% at constant currency, primarily 
reflecting the impact of fixed cost inflation and a double-digit 
increase in IT costs and depreciation as we commenced 
the implementation of our systems strategy to support 
our medium-term growth ambitions. This included the 
commencement of a new enterprise architecture to enable 
our systems to deliver more change, faster. There were 
enhancements to the search functionality on our websites 
and we introduced our latest design tool for engineers, 
DesignSpark Mechanical. This tool provides engineers with 
free access to an extensive library of 3D models, enabling 
them to save time and money by bringing new products to 
market more quickly.
UK is 29% 
of Group sales
•	 62% eCommerce sales share in FY14
•	 2 distribution centres
•	 2,100 full-time equivalent employees
Electrocomponents Front AR 2013.indd   26 02/06/2014   17:42:59 Our Business
27
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our One Global Offer strategic priority is focused on building 
a more consistent global offer across RS and Allied and 
targeting new product investment on our Famous For 
products rather than expanding the entire range. Hence the 
level of new product introduction across RS in the last year, at 
around 34,000, was below prior-year levels and over three-
quarters of the new products were in the Famous For product 
categories. Allied added around 42,000 new products in the 
year. This is significantly above Allied’s run-rate in recent years, 
reflecting the addition of products from our RS range from 
TE Connectivity, Omron, ON Semiconductor, Honeywell, 
Panasonic and Phoenix Contact, being the first of our major 
suppliers where we are developing a more consistent 
global range. There has been increased cost investment 
accompanying the delivery of this more consistent global 
offer.
We have strengthened existing partnerships with leading 
global brands and signed new global agreements during 
the year with Fairchild Semiconductor, Parralax, Exar, 
Philips Lumileds and Red Pitaya, whilst our commitment 
to promoting new and innovative products was enhanced 
with our distribution agreement with RepRapPro to bring 
affordable, open-source 3D printing technology to engineers 
worldwide.
Ian Mason  Simon Boddie 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
22 May 2014
Pictured: The RepRapPro Ormerod, a low-cost 3D printer, 
launched in December 2013. 28
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Principal Risks and  
Uncertainties
Managing our risks effectively.
The Group has well-established risk management and 
internal control processes for the identification, assessment 
and management of strategic, operational, financial and 
compliance risks likely to affect the achievement of the 
Group’s corporate objectives and business performance. 
The risk management process
The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management 
process, with its effectiveness being reviewed annually through 
the Audit Committee. The Group Executive Committee (GEC) is 
accountable for the identification and management of risks and 
their mitigation to the achievement of corporate objectives. 
To support the evaluation of the Group’s risk management 
processes, the Board determines a list of material risks to 
the business for ongoing review. These risks are prioritised 
on their capacity to materially impact the achievement of 
strategic objectives, to disrupt business activities or their 
capacity for significant damage to value. 
The Board’s review of the material risks requires the 
responsible management to present its analysis of the 
risk to the Board, including the mitigating controls and the 
assessment of the residual risk relative to the inherent 
risk exposure. The Board will then determine whether it is 
reassured by the analysis. 
The GEC conducts a formal review and assessment of 
the potential risks to the Group’s strategic objectives and 
operational functions at the start of the financial year. This 
review prioritises the risks relative to the Group’s risk tolerance 
limits, and allocates responsibility for their management. 
The Group applies a common risk assessment approach to 
the identification, assessment and management of risks. 
This includes common measures of impact and likelihood, 
and the requirement to determine whether the residual risks 
are acceptable given mitigating actions or whether additional 
actions are required. This approach provides for consistent 
analysis and reporting of new or developing risks throughout 
the management line. 
All operational businesses complete an annual risk and 
controls self-assessment. This feeds into the Group’s risk 
profile that is reviewed by the GEC and the Audit Committee 
as part of the annual risk review. The outputs from the process 
are factored into the audit plan to focus audit testing on the 
key controls in the business. 
The schematic below presents the high level overview of the 
risk management and control process.
Risk management responsibilities
Risk Management and Control Process
Corporate Governance  Processes
Risk Management Process
The Board
Operational Audit
Audit Committee
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
 
See page 42 for
Governance
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Business
29
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Major strategic risks
N  L M 
         K
 G F
D 
E
A
 H 
J I
Likelihood
Electrocomponents Risk Map 2014
Low Medium
  
High
Low
Medium
High
 
 
B
C
Impact
New risks for FY14: C, L
A Delivery of the Group strategy
B Macroeconomic conditions
C Long-term strategic market shifts
D Increasing competition
E Customer acquisition
F People risks 
G Product data integrity
H Pension cost increases
I Effective range management
J Key infrastructure dependencies
K Foreign exchange rate volatility
L Cyber risk threat
M Pace of web innovation and development
N Breach of regulations leading to prosecution
Principal risks and uncertainties
The following pages present the principal risks to the 
achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives identified 
through the process described above.
The following icons depict whether each risk is a new risk, 
whether it has increased or decreased in significance and/or 
whether it is a key risk.
Look out for these icons:
New risk Key risk
Risk trend Other
The risks are presented as residual risks as reviewed by 
the GEC, with a description of each risk and the principal 
mitigating activities in place. Each of these risks is allocated 
to a GEC level risk owner, who, as described earlier, can be 
required to present the risk to the Board. 
The risk map presented below is an extract from the GEC 
approved risk map for 2014. Where the assessment of a risk 
changes the GEC must agree the change on the risk map, 
with an arrow indicating the direction of change.  30
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
RISKS
Delivery of the Group strategy (A) Macroeconomic conditions (B)
Impact
The Group’s strategic objectives require close management 
and co-ordination to be delivered effectively. The risk is that 
the Group’s resources and capabilities may be challenged 
by the scale and complexity of what is required. 
Particular risks include insufficient internal expertise, 
competition for key resources and unanticipated 
interdependencies or events disrupting programme 
delivery.
Impact
Global economic conditions continue to be uncertain 
and vulnerable to major shocks such as a further banking 
crisis or sovereign debt defaults. A worsening of global 
economic conditions could result in a loss of business 
confidence exposing the Group’s sales and profits.
Mitigation
 Clearly defined business objectives and  
strategic priorities
 Global organisation structure in place to leverage 
internal business capacity and expertise 
 Functional ownership of projects with dedicated  
project management
 Resourced programme management and  
project governance function
Relevant strategic priorities:
     
Mitigation
 Strongly cash generative business
 Strong balance sheet
 Significant headroom maintained on banking covenants 
and facilities
 Tight cost management and control of stock
Relevant strategic priorities:
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Business
31
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Long-term strategic market shifts (C) Increasing competition (D) 
Impact
Fundamental shifts in the external environment challenge 
key assumptions upon which the Group strategy is based. 
The risk relates to the forward looking analysis of the 
future environment and the implications of market or 
structural shifts for the strategy and its delivery. 
Impact
New and existing competitors close the service gap, 
offering improved service standards and value propositions. 
Changes to the competitive landscape challenge the 
growth assumptions made in the Group’s strategy.
The risk is an increase in supply-side options for the 
customer, with declining barriers to entry and reduced 
switching costs for customers.
Mitigation
 Strategy function in place to monitor and review 
challenges to strategic assumptions, e.g. applying 
scenario analysis to review risks
 Close monitoring of market and technical developments
 Strategic reviews with Board and GEC
 Development of strategic performance measurement 
metrics to support the review of strategy formulation 
and delivery
Relevant strategic priorities:
    
Mitigation
 Ongoing review of the competitive environment and 
developing threats
 Dynamic pricing strategy
 Range globalisation
 Maintaining high service level globally
Relevant strategic priorities:
  
Customer acquisition (E) People risks (F) 
Impact
The business does not attract sufficient numbers of new 
customers and is unable to develop new and existing 
customer behaviour to deliver the sustainable sales 
growth objectives. 
The risk is that order frequency and value does not change 
as new customers are attracted. 
Impact
The business is unable to attract and retain high 
performing employees. 
The risk is that employees are not fully engaged and 
supportive of the business strategy, which could 
undermine productivity and the quality of work done.
Mitigation
 Global customer service campaigns including ‘Voice 
of the customer’, and ‘Standing in the shoes of the 
customer’ to enhance the customer experience 
 Development programmes to influence  
customer behaviours
 Investment in web and social media to enhance  
online experience
 Continuing investment in range globalisation  
and development
 Dynamic pricing strategy
Relevant strategic priorities:
  
Mitigation
 Development of existing employee competencies and 
the introduction of external expertise where appropriate
 Employee appraisal processes to align personal 
objectives with the Group strategy
 Annual survey of employee engagement
 Employee engagement programmes built around global 
behaviours to support high performance
Relevant strategic priorities:
  32
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Product data integrity (G) Pension cost increases (H) 
Impact
The risk is that current information and data structures 
inhibit the implementation of the globalisation objective 
and the effectiveness of the wider customer offer.
The risk anticipates increasing market demands 
for more product related data, faster rates of new 
product introductions, price changes and provision of 
comprehensive product information.
Impact
There is an increase in scheme liabilities and a reduction 
in the value of assets of the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme.
The risk is that the Company is required to contribute 
increased cash sums to address the scheme deficit, which 
increases the costs on the Income Statement.
Mitigation
 Range globalisation and compliance programmes to 
enhance governance and data management structures
 Strategic content programmes to deliver improvements 
in product data and content quality
 Enterprise architecture enhancements to address 
constraints in the processes to manage product data 
and content
Relevant strategic priorities:
    
Mitigation
 Quarterly reviews of pension scheme funding position
 Regular interaction with the pension scheme trustees
 Joint Trustee / Company working group to review 
investment strategy
 Consultation with scheme members of the UK defined 
benefits scheme involving changes to their benefits. 
These changes involve lowering the cap on the level 
of salary which is pensionable and increasing member 
contributions for the majority of members.
Relevant strategic priorities:
 
Effective range management (I) Key infrastructure dependencies (J) 
Impact
The ongoing development of the range with shortening 
product life cycles potentially increases the exposure of 
the business to higher levels of stock obsolescence as 
well as operational capacity constraints.
The risk is that as the Group progressively implements 
range globalisation, it will lack the required capabilities to 
quickly action new product opportunities or address poor 
product performance in particular markets.
Impact
There is a heavy operational dependence on the resilience 
of warehousing and IT infrastructure to support business 
operations in a high service environment.
The risk is present that unplanned events could disrupt 
the functioning of key elements of the operational 
infrastructure damaging customer service and  
business reputation.
Mitigation
 Range globalisation project to drive availability of key 
vendor ranges across Group markets
 Monitoring and analysis of new product developments 
to identify high potential products
 Product life cycle performance monitoring
 Continuous improvement programmes to improve 
operational effectiveness and service efficiencies
 Contractual arrangements with key suppliers on stock 
purchasing and product buy-back
Relevant strategic priorities:
   
Mitigation
 Highly resilient IT systems infrastructure featuring 
operational redundancies and off-site disaster  
recovery provision
 Strict control over upgrades to core systems and  
other applications
 Largest five warehouse locations all assessed as 
‘Highly Protected Risk’ status
 Business continuity plans in place at operational 
locations with annual test schedule in place
Relevant strategic priorities:
  
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Business
33
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Foreign exchange rate volatility (K) Cyber risk threat (L)
Impact
Foreign exchange rate volatility increases uncertainty in 
business planning, product procurement costs and profit 
and loss exposures.
Impact
Risks relating to the integrity, safeguarding and availability 
of information and IT systems. 
The main exposures to the Group include the risk of a 
targeted direct attack on Group systems and data with the 
potential for loss of confidential information, and an undetected 
attack using advanced techniques to disrupt the website.
Mitigation
 Forward contracts used against planned expenditure
 Increased purchasing of stock in Euros and US Dollars 
to mitigate transaction and translation risks
 Treasury Committee sets agreed risk tolerance levels
 Compliance against foreign exchange exposure targets 
reported to Treasury Committee monthly
Relevant strategic priorities:
   
Mitigation
 Anti-virus software to protect business PCs and laptops
 Procedures to update vendor security patches to 
servers and clients
 Software scanning of incoming emails for  
known viruses 
 Firewalls to protect against malicious attempts to 
penetrate the business IT environment
 Control reviews to consider the security implications of 
IT changes
 Security reviews with selected third party vendors
 Computer emergency readiness team (CERT) to track 
software vulnerabilities relevant to the Group’s systems
Relevant strategic priorities:
   
Pace of web innovation and development (M) Breach of regulations leading to prosecution (N)  
Impact
The risk is that the business is unable to maintain the pace 
of innovation in web and digital capabilities relative to the 
competition. A failure to maintain innovation could erode 
competitive advantage.
Impact
Inadvertent breach of regulations leads to prosecution 
and significant fines, e.g. by contravention of product 
compliance regulations, environmental regulations, bribery 
and corruption, corporate governance.
Mitigation
 Implementation of a new web platform with capabilities 
for faster speed of change
 Improved search engine visibility
 Greater web functionality with improved search 
capability and web presentation across multiple devices
 ‘ Agile’ ways of working to support faster development 
of our web platform
Relevant strategic priorities:
 
Mitigation
 Employment of internal specialist expertise, 
supplemented by external partners as required
 Ongoing review of relevant national and international 
compliance requirements
 Group legal procedures for Group-wide compliance 
training for senior management leadership team 
in bribery and corruption and competition law 
requirements 
 Operational audit reviews of local governance 
requirements and compliance arrangements
Relevant strategic priorities:
   34
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Corporate Responsibility
Sound corporate responsibility practices are integral to our business.
Corporate responsibility (CR) is an integral part of our business 
and we strive to align our values and strategy with responsible 
and ethical business policies and practices. We embrace 
responsibility for the Company’s actions and through our 
activities encourage a positive impact on our environment, 
consumers, employees, communities and other stakeholders. 
Our Group Chief Executive is the Director responsible for CR, 
and the Board of Electrocomponents monitors CR matters 
across the Group’s business operations. 
We have identified the following CR risks as having 
the greatest potential impact on our business and key 
stakeholders: waste and recycling; packaging and paper; 
water usage; emissions; health and safety; and employee 
and community engagement. We address these risks and 
communicate our performance and progress under the 
headings: Our Community; Our People; Our Health and 
Safety; and Our Environment.
Our CR approach is aligned around the themes of 
engagement and efficiency. These themes are directly linked 
back to our strategic initiatives of High Performing Team and 
World Class Systems respectively.
We encourage local initiatives and, where practical, share best 
practice. The main drivers behind the CR activities are to:
 Support the environmental agenda in order to contribute to 
cost and operational efficiencies 
 Support employee engagement, which has been mainly 
driven through Our People and Our Health and Safety 
initiatives
 Ensure that we comply with the relevant legislation and 
codes
The Group has a policy manual, Our Standards, which sets 
out the standards of behaviour to which every employee 
is expected to work and which defines the core values 
and principles we apply in dealing with our customers, 
suppliers and other stakeholders. The manual covers gifts, 
hospitality and donations, fraud, compliance, competition 
law, whistleblower policy (Speak Up), conflicts of interest 
and respect for our employees. This year we have updated 
Our Standards and issued it to our management population 
across the Group in seven languages; it can be found on our 
corporate website: http://www.electrocomponents.com/
investor-centre/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct/
We have a zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and 
corruption. The Anti-Bribery Policy applies to all businesses, 
Directors and employees within our Group to ensure 
compliance with all laws and regulations governing bribery 
and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
Our 2014 key achievements include:
 Our Community: In addition to their time, employees have 
supported a range of charities, with a fundraising total 
across the Group of over £240,000.
 Our People: Following the results of the first global 
employee engagement survey, My Voice, we introduced 
a global engagement governance structure and developed 
engagement action plans, which are being implemented at 
global, functional and local levels. We had an 85% response 
rate to this year’s My Voice survey, which resulted in an 
increase of 3% in employee engagement levels. 
 Our Health and Safety: Performance has continued to see 
significant improvements, with a 60% reduction in the 
number of days lost due to accidents from 405 in 2013 to 
151 in 2014. For the first time we have been granted the 
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Gold 
Award for ongoing commitment to raising occupational 
health and safety standards. 
 Our Environment: The Group improved its environmental 
performance in all key areas resulting in reductions of 
5.8% in CO
2
 intensity, 9.2% in waste intensity, 11 .8% in 
packaging per line ordered and 12.7% in water use per 
head.
Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, 
which measures the performance of companies that meet 
globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. 
We have once again secured a place on the Global 100 
Most Sustainable Corporations list, published by Corporate 
Knights in January 2014, ranking us as one of the top overall 
sustainability performers in our industrial sector.
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our Business
35
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Working together to aid the Philippines
Read more online
www.electrocomponents.com
On 8 November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan struck the 
Philippines affecting about 9.5 million people across the 
country. In response to this disaster, RS teams across the 
world collected end-of-line products to aid the rebuilding 
of the devastated areas of the Philippines. To date, RS has 
sourced over £85,000 worth of end-of-line products, such 
as power tools, protective clothing, fire extinguishers, and 
batteries.  The items were gathered from across the world 
and our people helped to pick and pack the products.
In addition, employees in Australia and Spain organised 
events to raise money for the Philippines relief. RS Italy 
donated 274 hours of their salary to raise money for 
CARITAS, a charity actively involved in providing aid to 
the affected people of the Philippines. Donated hours 
equated to 6,025 Euros; this was matched by the company 
resulting in a monetary donation of 12,050 Euros.
In South East Asia, the RS team also worked together and 
raised money to donate to the Philippines relief efforts. 
Furthermore, many employees were personally affected 
by the disaster and so donated much of their time helping 
in many ways to rebuild the devastated areas across the 
Philippines. 
Our Community
We actively support engagement with local communities and 
our employees feel passionately about supporting the local 
communities they live in. Our approach is to encourage our 
people to spend time on fundraising activities and take the 
initiative in supporting local charities. 
During 2014, our employees across the world have invested 
their time and money in raising funds for a wide range 
of valuable causes, from disaster and cancer charities to 
community youth projects, the majority of which have been 
supported at a local level. Most of the fundraising has been 
employee-led but there have also been monetary and stock 
donations made from the Company in different markets. Our 
global fundraising reached over £240,000. 
Some key donations include:
North America: $17 ,929 was donated by employees for United 
Way, an organisation dedicated to improving education, 
income and health in communities across the country. 
UK: An initial donation of £2,450 enabled Lakelands Hospice 
to organise a series of events, which RS employees 
participated in, to raise £31,395.
Pictured: The RS UK My Community team presenting a cheque to the 
Lakelands Hospice in Corby, Northamptonshire. 36
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Our People
My V oice
During this year we have been addressing the concerns raised 
in our first global employee engagement survey, My Voice, 
conducted in February 2013. Following analysis of the survey 
results, a global employee engagement governance structure 
was established to drive activity across the business. 
Globally the business identified six engagement priorities: 
Career structures; My Career; People Days; Communication; 
Reward; and Leadership and Management Behaviours and 
Effectiveness.
Based on the survey results and subsequent workshops, each 
of our global functions defined the key themes that required 
action and explored the root causes. They then designed a 
prioritised action plan to address the concerns of their specific 
global function. Our global functions are now implementing 
their plans across their teams.
In February 2014 we conducted a second My Voice survey in 
12 languages and had an 85% response rate and an increase 
of 3% in employee engagement scores. The results of the 
survey indicate that we are building confidence with the plans 
in place and actions taken to date. 
Learning and development
We have made some solid progress with our learning and 
development agenda, including the relaunch of My Career, a 
development programme, which includes career workshops 
in local languages and virtual learning opportunities. We want 
to attract, develop and retain a diverse workforce, as well as 
drive a culture where people feel able to give their best, and 
where their views, opinions and talents are respected. Our 
aim is to embed diversity and inclusion within the business; 
having a diverse and inclusive organisation plays a key part in 
enabling us to become a Great Place to Work.
During 2014, we have focused on three main elements:
 Embedding Inclusive Leadership workshops 
Our Embedding Inclusive Leadership workshops aim to 
educate our people managers and leaders and help them 
understand that we all have unconscious bias, which 
can be seen in recruitment, delegation and promotion 
decisions. During this year 65% of the global senior 
management team have participated in the workshops. 
 Reverse mentoring 
Our reverse mentoring programme matches mentors 
and mentees who are different from each other, e.g. 
different generations, functions, genders, geographies and 
nationalities. Both the mentor and mentee challenge their 
own assumptions about people and learn what life is like 
for someone who is different from them. About 31% of 
our global senior management team are now involved as 
mentors. 
 Monitoring 
We have implemented a new process to monitor how 
we are performing in key areas, including whether we are 
attracting, promoting and retaining a good mix of people. 
Our aim is to have a much clearer picture of diversity 
across our business. 
All of the Group’s employment and training policies are 
compliant with relevant employment legislation and regulatory 
obligations. Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and 
retraining offered to any employee who develops a disability 
during their employment. 
Recruitment
In January of this year we began a partnership with Alexander 
Mann Solutions (AMS) to manage recruitment for RS globally, 
excluding Japan, South Africa and Chile. The new partnership 
will give us a consistent recruitment process across much 
of the business, improved metrics and the benefit of AMS’ 
extensive experience in sourcing a diverse pool of candidates.
Employee communication
The Group communicates business performance and key 
developments in a variety of ways; two-way communication is 
actively promoted. The Executive Directors present the Group 
results to all employees. The Group has many consultation 
forums, with trade unions, works councils and other employee 
groups involved where appropriate. 
Human rights
Our respect for human rights is implicit in our employment 
practices; the rights of every employee are respected and 
every employee is treated with dignity and consideration. Our 
employment practices are designed to attract, retain, motivate 
and train people and to respect their rights. We do not use 
child labour (in line with Minimum Age Convention), nor do we 
use forced labour. We recognise freedom of association by 
permitting our employees to establish and join organisations 
of their own choosing without our permission, and we 
recognise collective bargaining where required by local laws.
Gender diversity across our business
Female Employess (3,295)
Male Employess (2,968) Male Senior Managers (208)
Female Senior Managers (135)
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our Business
37
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our Health and Safety 
We recognise health and safety as key for the continued 
economic success and sustainable future of the business. 
Our core objective is to achieve long-term cultural change, 
promoting good practice and behaviours amongst our 
employees. With 17 distribution centres across the world, 
accident prevention is a priority. 
Key achievements this year have been:
 A significant year-on-year reduction in the Lost Time 
Accident rate (number of lost time accidents per 200,000 
hours worked) from 0.60 in 2013 to 0.42 in 2014. This rate 
was over 1 .0 as recently as 2011 . 
 The number of lost time accidents has dropped 30% from 
37 in 2013 to 26 in 2014. This shows a reduction of 65% 
over the last three years.
 A 60% reduction in the number of days lost due to 
accidents from 405 in 2013 to 151 in 2014. 
 There were 8,247 near misses reported in 2014, compared 
with 4,421 in 2013, demonstrating an improvement in 
employee awareness and reporting.
The total number of recorded accidents has increased slightly 
this year, from 532 in 2013 to 547 in 2014. This is due in part 
to recording a greater variety of accidents, which now include 
minor, lost time and road traffic accidents. It is also due to 
the introduction of ‘Our Performance across Operations’, an 
initiative to encourage proactive reporting throughout our 
warehouses. 
Health and safety has for the last two years been the highest 
scoring section of the global employee engagement survey. 
We continue to use behavioural safety as a key tool to change 
and adapt our employees’ attitudes and approach to health 
and safety. 
In 2014, the second year of our five year health and safety 
strategy, our key areas of focus have been:
 Professional advice and support: a network of health and 
safety professionals and forums within the business able to 
support the local teams with advice and guidance.
 Senior management support: several members of the GEC 
chair regional health and safety forums, taking the lead to 
role model support for health and safety.
 Training: all employees have attended behavioural safety 
training and, where necessary, high levels of vocational 
training are also provided in the form of first aid, mechanical 
handling equipment operator training, fire safety and 
manual handling.
 Learning and communication: learning from events and 
taking a proactive preventative approach with actions 
logged and tracked at a global level and communicated to 
the business.
 Risk management: all areas of the business are required to 
have an established risk management structure, supported 
by safety improvement plans, which allows proactive 
planning and budgeting. 
In recognition of our health and safety success over this 
year, we have been granted the Society for the Prevention 
of Accidents (RoSPA) Gold Award for Occupational Health 
and Safety, demonstrating an upward trend from Silver last 
year and Bronze the year before. We have also received a 
distinction in the British Safety Council’s International Safety 
Awards 2014, having scored 60 out of 60 for our commitment 
to the health, safety and well-being of our people.  38
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Our Environment
The Electrocomponents environmental policy commits the Group to identifying and managing the environmental impacts 
associated with its business activities, with the objective of increasing efficiency and reducing the Group’s environmental 
impacts per unit of sales. 
Environmental performance is managed through a Group-wide reporting and measurement process. The scope and 
completeness of the process has been an important factor in the Group’s recognition by the Corporate Knights Global 100 list of 
sustainable corporations, for eight out of the last ten years.
From this year we report environmental performance on a financial year (FY) basis rather than by calendar year (CY). This is now 
in line with Group financial reporting and the FY and CY reports are comparable as they both cover a 12 month period.
Energy consumption and carbon emissions
Emissions T otal Emissions CO 2e (T onnes) Energy Intensity (T onnes CO 2 /£m sales)
FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010
CO
2
e due to premises energy use 
1,2,3
18,636 19,314 18,947 21,524 14.7 15.6 15.1 18.9
1. CO 2 equivalent from all energy sources including country specific CO 2 factors for electricity and with 100% renewable electricity reported at zero kg CO 2 per kWh.
2. Excludes a number of smaller premises where energy costs and consumption are included in lease costs.
3. KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology and in emissions factors. 
Our primary direct energy usage and related CO
2
 emissions is in our premises and operational infrastructure and as sales 
increase, our energy efficiency will improve. Energy reductions and the use of green energy also help reduce emissions. 
As most energy use is related to heating and cooling, our energy related performance is subject to the effects of climatic 
variations. We work closely with our transport providers to manage the cost and efficiency of our third party transport 
arrangements.
CO
2
e emissions, due to energy use in our premises, were reduced by 3.5% in FY2014. Taking into account the growth in sales 
between the two 12-month periods, CO
2
e emissions intensity was down 5.8% in FY2014. The most significant emissions 
reductions were achieved in the UK where a combination of energy saving measures and lower use for space heating reduced 
emissions by over 350 tonnes and in Germany where a change to 100% renewable electricity reduced reported emissions by 
some 300 tonnes.
Efficiency improvements are ongoing across our facilities, including investment in energy efficient lighting systems and the 
installation of LED and fluorescent tube lighting linked to movement sensors to replace older, less efficient lighting systems. 
Following the installation of energy management systems across the UK, plans are underway to extend this technology to 
principal sites in Europe. This will enable the more efficient control of heating and air conditioning systems, reducing energy 
consumption, CO
2
 emissions and costs, and providing real time information on energy usage. 
The Group has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2008 and in the 2013 CDP FTSE 350 Report was rated as 
joint top in its reporting category, achieving its highest disclosure and performance scores to date.
Waste and recycling
Waste T otal Waste (T onnes) Waste Intensity (T onnes/£m sales)
FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010
Total waste
1
2,910 3,129 3,488 3,201 2.29 2.53 2.78 2.81
Recycling T otal Waste (T onnes) Waste Intensity (T onnes/£m sales)
FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010
Total waste recycled
1
2,307 2,461 2,596 2,283 79% 79% 74% 71%
1. KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology, and including hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
Our primary waste streams include card, paper, wood and plastics, much of which is recycled, and general commercial waste 
from our operations. Waste intensity was down by 9.2%in FY2014. In absolute terms, waste tonnage was reduced by 7% in 
FY2014. The proportion of total waste recycled was constant in the year at 79% despite the reduction in total waste.
Waste reduction initiatives at sites across the Group are ongoing. These include the proactive reduction and management of 
waste streams with waste recycled or diverted from landfill to incineration and energy recovery where possible. For example, 
in the UK total waste is down by 27% since CY2010 with waste to landfill reduced from 30% of the total in CY2010 to 3% in 
FY2014. Over the same period the proportion of total waste recycled is up from 69% to 79% with an additional 16% of total waste 
being diverted to energy recovery/incineration. The use of reusable replenishment transit packaging, and the inclusion of supplier 
contractual clauses for the buyback of surplus and obsolete products has helped to reduce waste quantities.  
A free lamp collection and recycling initiative for UK customers was recognised in the Lux Awards 2013 with a ‘highly 
commended’ honour. The service collected and recycled over 10 tonnes of redundant lamps. Our UK team also developed an 
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our Business
39
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
innovative project, comprising a new LED unit and a revolutionary service model, that encourages the purchase of energy-
efficient lighting whilst also eradicating all waste at the end of the product’s life. This project won the ‘Environment Product/
Service Award’ at the Environment and Energy Awards 2014 and will be rolled out across the Group over the next three years.
Packaging and paper
Packaging (T onnes) Packaging per Line Ordered (kg/£m ordered)
FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010
Packaging consumed 4,672 5,473 5,497 4,959 0.21 0.24 0.24 0.23
Packaging consumption was reduced by 14.6% and packaging use per line ordered was down by 11 .8% in FY2014. The main 
improvements in packaging use were in North America and in the UK, where the adoption of double wall cardboard in place 
of tri-wall reduced packaging use per line ordered. We continue to review our packaging and to train packaging teams on the 
importance of the efficient use of materials in preparing customer orders whilst ensuring the effective protection of customer 
orders when in transit. The packaging report is also influenced by the timing of packaging purchases and supplier deliveries.
We work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and printers to reduce the carbon footprint of our catalogue which is now 
reprinted every two years. The pulp for the catalogues is sourced from either Sustainable Forestry Initiative or PEFC accredited 
forest management schemes, with printing carried out in ISO 14001:2004 certificated facilities. 
Water consumption
Water Use (m
3
) Water Use Per Employees (m
3
/head)
FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010
Total water use 47 ,511 54,055 53,936 48,745 7.6 8.8 8.9 9.0
Water is used primarily for domestic and office uses, with performance assessed on the basis of consumption per employee. 
Use is also influenced by the testing and maintenance of fire protection systems and irrigation requirements. Water 
conservation measures include awareness campaigns and proactive maintenance regimes to prevent or rectify leakage. 
Water use per employee was down by 12.7% and absolute water use was reduced by 12.1% in FY2014. Specific water saving 
initiatives at sites in France, Australia and the UK helped to drive the improved performance in FY2014. 
Greenhouse gas emissions disclosures
In addition to the CO
2
e emissions due to premises energy use, which are reported on page 38, the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 requires the Group to also report emissions due to the fuel used in 
company vehicles, fugitive emissions and other sources. The report below includes the material emission sources from the 
operations and activities covered by the Group’s financial statements. 
FY2014
T onnes CO 2e
Emissions from combustion of fuels and operation of facilities:
Combustion of fossil fuels* 6,116
Operation of facilities, including fugitive emissions
#
89
Electricity purchased for own consumption:
Purchased electricity
†
14,847
Intensity measurement
CO
2
e due to premises energy use per £m revenue 14.7
Total GHGs per £m revenue 16.6
Data is for the financial year as updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology. 
*   Includes emissions of 2,326 tonnes relating to fuel use in company vehicles. 
#
       89 tonnes of CO 2e due to fugitive emissions from air conditioning systems. 
†
        Electricity from renewable sources at zero CO 2e per kWh. Emissions increase by 913 tonnes at grid-average rates.
The Group uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol with emission factors for standard grid electricity by country from the 
International Energy Agency and other factors as published by the UK Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in 
order to calculate the CO
2
e emissions included in this report.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 22 May 2014.
By order of the Board
Ian Mason 
Group Chief Executive Helping our customers 
bring products to market 
more rapidly
Strategy in Action
DesignSpark Mechanical achieves record downloads
 
DesignSpark, our online design community, 
provides engineers worldwide with trusted and 
reliable technical information and resources.
Boasting around 250,000 users since 
its launch in 2010, DesignSpark allows 
engineers to connect with partners, 
exchange ideas and contribute reviews. 
Its popularity lies in its ability to help 
engineers to do their jobs more easily.
One of the key resources DesignSpark 
offers is a suite of free design tools that 
enable engineers to innovate. Our first 
was DesignSpark PCB, an award-winning 
software packed with time-saving features 
for electronics design. It has become the 
tool of choice for design collaboration 
across the world.
In September 2013, we launched 
DesignSpark Mechanical, our revolutionary 
design software that enables engineers to 
quickly create and modify sophisticated 3D 
designs. The easy-to-use tool overcomes 
the prohibitive costs and considerable 
learning time associated with traditional 
3D CAD tools and allows prototypes to be 
built easily with a 3D printer.
With DesignSpark providing access 
to an extensive library of 3D models, 
DesignSpark Mechanical enables 
engineers to bring products to market 
more rapidly. Its significance was 
underlined in the first 50 days following 
launch when it registered over 100,000 
downloads.
The impact of these tools is demonstrated 
by their use in curriculums in a number 
of institutions around the world. Republic 
Polytechnic in Singapore, for example, 
has set up an electronic product design 
lab equipped with the tools, and has 
developed a course module based on 
DesignSpark PCB to teach PCB design, 
a fundamental skill for all electrical and 
electronics students.
40
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Pictured: The electronic product design lab at 
Republic Polytechnic in Singapore.
Our Business
41
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board of Directors
Peter Johnson
Chairman
Joined in October 2010
External roles 
During the year Peter was appointed 
Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board 
of Wienerberger AG, having been a 
Member for a number of years.
Past roles 
Previously, Peter was Chairman of DS 
Smith plc, a Non-Executive Director of 
SSL International plc, Chief Executive of 
George Wimpey plc and Chief Executive 
of The Rugby Group plc.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Emerging markets
 Mergers and acquisitions
 Distribution
 Sales and marketing
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
 Chairman
 Chief Executive Officer
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Ian Mason
Group Chief Executive 
Joined the Board in July 2000
External roles
None
Past roles
Ian joined the Group from The Boston 
Consulting Group in February 1995 as 
Director of Business Development and 
was appointed to the Board of Directors 
in July 2000 as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer. 
He became Group Chief Executive in 
July 2001 . He was a Non-Executive 
Director at Sage Group plc from 
November 2007 until November 2013.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 eCommerce
 Distribution
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
 Chief Executive Officer
Committee membership
Chairman of the Group Executive 
Committee and Member of the Treasury 
Committee.
Simon Boddie
Group Finance Director 
Joined in September 2005
External roles
Simon is a Non-Executive Director of 
PageGroup and Chairman of its Audit 
Committee. 
Past roles
Previously, Simon worked for Diageo plc 
where he held a variety of senior ﬁnance 
positions, latterly as Finance Director of 
Key Markets.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Emerging markets
 Recent financial experience
 Distribution
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
Committee membership
Chairman of the Treasury Committee 
and Member of the Group Executive 
Committee.
42
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Rupert Soames
Senior Independent Director 
Joined in July 2007
External roles
Rupert was recently appointed as Group 
Chief Executive at Serco Group plc. 
Past roles
Up to April of this year, Rupert was 
Group Chief Executive of Aggreko plc. 
Previously, he was Chief Executive of 
the Banking and Securities Division of 
Misys plc and a Non-Executive Director 
of Baggeridge Brick plc.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Emerging markets
 Digital
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
 Chief Executive Officer
Committee membership
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. Member of the Nomination 
and Audit Committees.
Paul Hollingworth
Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Joined in May 2008
External roles
None
Past roles
Previously, Paul was Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of Thomas Cook 
Group plc and prior to that he was 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Mondi Group. 
He has also held positions as Group 
Finance Director of BPB plc, De La Rue 
plc and Ransomes plc.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Emerging markets
 Recent financial experience
 Mergers and acquisitions
 Corporate law and governance
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Adrian Auer
Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Joined in July 2009
Adrian will be standing down as a Non-
Executive Director at the end of June.
External roles
Adrian is Chairman of Shanks Group 
plc and a Non-Executive Director of 
AZ Electronic Materials S.A. He is also 
Chairman of Addaction, Britain’s largest 
specialist drug and alcohol treatment 
charity. 
Past roles
Previously, Adrian has held the position 
of Finance Director in a number of 
major companies and has extensive 
international business experience.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Emerging markets
 Sales and marketing
 Supply chain and logistics
 Finance
 Distribution
 Digital
 Mergers and acquisitions
 Management consultancy
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
 Chairman
 Chief Executive Officer
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Our Business
43
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Karen Guerra
Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Joined in January 2013
External roles
Karen is a Non-Executive Director of 
Amcor Limited, Swedish Match AB and 
Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A.
Past roles
Previously, Karen was a Non-Executive 
Director at Inchcape plc, More Group 
plc and Samlerhuset Group BV. She has 
also held senior executive positions at 
Colgate-Palmolive, including Managing 
Director and Chairman of both their UK 
and French businesses.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Sales and marketing
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
John Pattullo
Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Joined in January 2013
External roles
During the year John became Chairman 
of NHS Blood and Transplant and Non-
Executive Chairman of Marken Group.
Past roles
John recently retired from the Board 
of CEVA Group plc but continues to 
be a Special Advisor, having previously 
served as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
CEVA Logistics. Previously, he was 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Europe, 
Middle East and Africa division of 
Exel and when Exel was acquired by 
Deutsche Post/DHL he went on to run 
the combined Exel and DHL contract 
logistics business in EMEA. He spent 
most of his early career working in 
supply chain management roles with 
Procter & Gamble.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Emerging markets
 Supply chain and logistics
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
 Chief Executive Officer
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Ian Haslegrave
General Counsel and Company 
Secretary 
Joined in September 2006
External roles
None
Past roles
Previously, Ian was International Legal 
Director at Viacom Outdoor Limited. 
He has also worked at United Biscuits 
Limited and Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus 
Deringer.
Skills and experience
 International operations
 Mergers and acquisitions
 Corporate law and governance
 Risk management
 Manufacturing
 Service industry
Committee membership
Member of the Treasury Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > BOARD OF DIRECTORS
44
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Directors’ Report 
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Electrocomponents plc (Company) together with its 
subsidiary undertakings (Group) for the period to 31 March 2014. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT
A summary of the disclosures required to be made in, and incorporated into, this Directors’ Report  
is given below:
Page Numbers:
Likely future developments
1
18
Policy on disability
1
36
Employee engagement
1
36
Greenhouse gas emissions
1
39
Names and biographies of Directors who served during the year 42
Directors’ indemnities 46
Results and dividends 46
Share Capital and acquisition of own shares 46
Directors’ disclosures of information to Auditors in respect of the audit 47
Appointment and replacement of Directors 89
Amendment of Articles of Association 89
Significant agreements: change of control 89
Powers of Directors 89
Share capital and shareholder rights:
– Substantial shareholders 46
– Restrictions on transfer of shares 88
–  Rights attaching to shares 88
– Restrictions on voting 88
– Details of employee shares scheme 107
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings and branches 120
Financial risk management (including hedging) 123
1. Information required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and included in the Strategic Report
Our Business
45
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the Group income 
statement on page 96. An analysis of revenue, proﬁt and 
net assets by region is shown in Note 3 on page 104. The 
Directors have declared dividends as follows:
Ordinary shares
Paid interim dividend of 5p per 
share (paid on 10 January 2014) 2013: 5p per share
Proposed ﬁnal dividend of 6.75p per 
share (to be paid on 29 July 2014) 2013: 6.75p per share
Total ordinary dividend of 11 .75p per 
share for year ended 31 March 2014 2013: 11 .75p per share
Share capital
Full details of share options and awards and shares issued 
under the terms of the Company’s share incentive plans can 
be found in Note 7 to the accounts on page 107 . 
As at 31 March 2014, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of 439,586,456 ordinary shares of 
10p each, totalling £43,958,645.60.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) held on 17 July 2013 to purchase up to 
10% of its ordinary share capital in the market. This authority 
will expire at the end of the 2014 AGM and the Company is 
proposing a resolution to renew it for another year.
Directors’ indemnities
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
the Company entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the 
Directors and Ofﬁcers (from time to time) of the Company to 
the extent permitted by law. A copy of this indemnity (which 
remains in force as of the date on which this report was 
approved) is available at the registered ofﬁce of the Company.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors’ and 
Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance throughout 2013, which was 
renewed for 2014.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event 
that a Director or Ofﬁcer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Financial instruments
For information on the Group’s use of ﬁnancial instruments, 
including ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies 
of the Group, and exposure of the Group to certain ﬁnancial 
risks, see Note 21 on page 123.
Political contributions
The Group made no political contributions during the year. 
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 12 noon on 
Thursday, 24 July 2014 at the Company’s premises, The 
International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park 
North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out in a separate circular.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Substantial shareholders
As at 21 May 2014, the Company has been notiﬁed, in accordance with the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
following interests in the voting rights of the Company:
Nature of interest Number of shares Percentage held
Silchester International Investors LLP Direct 83,089,855 19.05%
Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 33,046,296 7 .58%
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Direct and Indirect 22,383,083 5.11%
Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 21,819,825 4.96%
Sanderson Asset Management Ltd Direct 18,240,445 4.18%
46
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Disclosure of information to Auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report each conﬁrm that, so far as they are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are 
unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Auditors are aware of that information.
Conﬂicts of interest
The Company’s Articles of Association give the Board the 
power to authorise situations that might give rise to Directors’ 
conﬂicts of interest. The Board has in place a formal conﬂicts 
of interest management procedure. The Board is responsible 
for considering whether authorisation is required, and if it can 
be given, in relation to new situations as they arise. The Board 
reviews annually any conﬂict authorisations it has given and 
any limitations that have been applied.
Company number
Registered Number: 647788.
Our Business
47
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Dear fellow shareholder
As a UK listed company, we are required to explain how we 
have applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (Code) and whether the relevant provisions 
have been complied with throughout the ﬁnancial year. The 
following report sets out how we have applied the Code and 
conﬁrms our compliance.
The Company and the Group are committed to high standards 
of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the 
Company’s shareholders and actively engages in two-way 
communication with them. During the year we held numerous 
face-to-face meetings, hosted site visits and invited them 
to presentations on both the Group’s ﬁnancial results and 
elements of its strategy.
We are mindful of the need to meet the ever-changing 
demands of the business environment, whilst at the same 
time ensuring that our various stakeholders are all given 
appropriate consideration. This has been a challenge that our 
Board continues to take very seriously.
Our two new Non-Executive Directors, Karen Guerra and John 
Pattullo have now settled in well with the Board and bring a 
fresh new perspective with their international backgrounds in 
marketing and supply chain management respectively.
For the first time this year we have conducted an externally 
facilitated board evaluation. This proved highly effective 
and resulted in a number of recommendations which are 
discussed in detail later in this report.
Executive remuneration has been a topic of considerable 
interest again over the year with the new regulations coming 
into play for the first time. The Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 67 sets out in detail the Company’s approach.
Peter Johnson 
Chairman 
22 May 2014
Corporate Governance Report
“We are mindful of the need to 
meet the ever-changing demands 
of the business environment, whilst 
at the same time ensuring that our 
various stakeholders are all given 
appropriate consideration”
Corporate Website
Further details on the roles and responsibilities of each of the 
committees of the Board are available on our website.
 Read more online at 
www.electrocomponents.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
48
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD TENURE
Executive
25%
0–3 years
25%
Non-Executive 
75%
3-6 years
25%
Male
87.5%
6 years and over
50%
Female
12.5%
INTERNA TIONAL EXPERIENCE
Percentage of Directors with international 
experience gained outside the Group
Europe
Americas
ROW
100%
100%
100%
  See page 52 for information on 
Board role, effectiveness and composition
Shareholders
Board of Directors
Chairman, two Executive Directors, ﬁve Non-Executive Directors and Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Audit Committee
 
Financial Reporting
 
External Audit
 
Risk Management and 
Internal Controls 
including Internal 
Audit
 
 
Whistleblowing,
 
Fraud and Anti-bribery
Remuneration 
Committee
 
Chairman and 
Executive Director Pay
 
Senior Executive Pay
 
Share Incentive
 
Plans
Nomination
 
Committee
 
Board Structure
 
Board Appointments
 
Board Succession 
Plans
Group Executive  
Committee
 
 
Develop Strategy
Execute Strategy
Operational and 
Financial Performance
Financial Performance
Monitoring Strategic 
and Forecasting 
Processes
Investment Proposals
Develop Risk 
Management Processes
Employee Development 
and Engagement
  See page 58 for the 
Audit Committee  
Report
  See page 67 for the 
Directors’  
Remuneration  
Report
  See page 65 for the 
Nomination 
Committee Report
Our Business
49
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Board Activity
Electrocomponents Governance
                                                              Electrocomponents Governance
BOARD DISCUSSION
  See page 52 for information on 
Board role, effectiveness 
and composition
“The Company and the Group are committed 
to high standards of corporate governance and 
the Board is accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders and actively engages in two-way 
communication”
50
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Strategy
The Board began the year with reviews of the Company’s Business Planning processes, and scoped its programme of strategic 
implementation reviews. Over the year it has received detailed updates on the seven strategic priorities, culminating in a 
strategy away day in January during which it had a review of the Group’s customers and competitors, an update on the progress 
made in the year on implementing the Group’s strategy and agreed the strategic implementation plan for the following year. On 
an ongoing basis it tracks progress against the strategic KPIs and approves strategic investment proposals, such as the roll-out 
of SAP in Asia Pacific. It also received reviews of previous strategic investment proposals considering whether they delivered 
their anticipated benefits and shared any learnings from the relevant projects.
Risk management
During the year the Board has undertaken its annual full Group Risk Review, and has also considered more specific and 
detailed risk reviews of the Nuneaton and Bad Hersfeld warehouses. Directors have undertaken training on defence of a 
takeover bid. The Board has considered and approved an investment proposal for updated disaster recovery arrangements 
in its North American business, and has been updated on the ever changing nature of cyber risk. Looking forward, the 
Board has agreed a register of inherent Group Major Risks for ongoing review.
Financial reporting
The Board reviewed and signed off on the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-year financial report for the 
following half year, including discussion and approval of the relevant final and interim dividends. The Board receives 
monthly updates on the financial performance of the Group, approves the annual budget, the strategic five year plan and 
the reforecasts during the year. In December, the Board approved a refresh of the overall tax strategy for the Group, which 
is carried out on a biannual basis, and has reviewed the ongoing bank financing programme.
Shareholder relations
The Board engaged with smaller shareholders at the 2013 AGM held in July, and during the year the Executive Directors held 
around 70 meetings and conference calls with institutional shareholders in the United Kingdom, North America and Europe. 
The Board regularly reviews reports that contain investor feedback from institutional investors, compiled by the Company’s 
brokers. In July the Board, with support from the Company’s brokers, conducted an in-depth review of the existing investor 
relations programme and strategy. This included a detailed review of investor feedback and perceptions, a review of the shape 
of the existing shareholder register and plans to attract new investors to the Company’s investment case.
Governance
The Board undertook an externally facilitated evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its committees and individual 
members during the year. It considered updates on a number of areas including competition policy and anti-bribery training, 
and reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing procedures. The Board also considered its position on corporate responsibility. 
On a quarterly basis the Board considers Group health and safety and receives reports on any grievances raised across the 
Group together with a summary of the themes arising from the whistleblowing process (Speak Up).
Our Business
51
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information UK Corporate Governance Code
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company has been 
subject to the provisions of the Code published in September 
2012. The Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk. There 
are ﬁve main principles of the Code covering:
 Leadership
 Effectiveness
 Relations with shareholders
 Accountability
 Remuneration
The sections within this Directors’ Report explain how the 
above principles have been applied. The information required 
by the Code on Directors’ accountability, our process for the 
appointment of Directors (including diversity) and our report on 
Directors’ remuneration, can be found in the following sections:
 Audit Committee Report on page 58; 
 Nomination Committee Report on page 65; and
 Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 67 .
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Directors consider 
that the Company complied throughout the accounting period 
with all the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The Board
Role, effectiveness and composition
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the 
long-term success of the Company. The Board has carefully 
considered the guidance criteria regarding the composition 
of the Board under the Code. In the opinion of the Board, 
the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors bring 
independence of judgement and character, a wealth of 
experience and knowledge, the appropriate balance of skills, 
and assign sufﬁcient time to enable them to effectively carry 
out their responsibilities and duties to the Board and to the 
committees on which they sit. They are sufﬁciently independent 
of management and are free from any other circumstances 
or relationships that could interfere with the exercise of their 
judgement. 
Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report 
are set out on pages 42 to 44. These set out their skills and 
experience, together with details of their membership of Board 
Committees. Details of the Board’s composition, tenure and 
international experience are given on page 49.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval which includes responsibility for:
 The approval of the Group strategy and its budgetary and 
business plans
 The review and approval of major investment proposals and 
capital expenditure
 The approval of annual and half-year results, interim 
management statements and trading statements
 The approval of the Group’s dividend policy, the payment of 
interim dividends and the recommendation of ﬁnal dividends
 Ensuring and maintaining the Group’s systems of risk 
management, internal control and corporate governance
 Reviewing health and safety policy and its performance
 Discussing and agreeing strategic plans
 Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and reviewing 
forecasts
Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the 
Board to the Group Executive Committee (GEC). Information 
and agenda items are recommended to the Board by the 
GEC and by the Company Secretary after discussion with the 
Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The Board is fully committed to diversity of gender, race and 
nationality and ensures it considers candidates from all such 
backgrounds when appointing new Board members. Further 
details of diversity in relation to appointments at Board level can 
be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 65.
Committees
The Board has a number of standing committees consisting 
of certain Directors and, in the case of the GEC and 
Treasury Committee, certain senior managers to which 
speciﬁc responsibilities have been delegated and for which 
written terms of reference have been agreed. These terms 
of reference are available for inspection on the Company’s 
website. Board members receive minutes of meetings of all 
the Board’s Committees and can request presentations or 
reports on areas of interest.
The performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation 
process described below.
Further details of the work, composition, role and 
responsibilities of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees are provided in separate reports on pages 
58 to 87 .
Group Executive Committee
Composition
The Committee consists of the Executive Directors and the 
Group Chief Executive’s direct reports and is chaired by the 
Group Chief Executive. The Committee has met ten times 
during the year ended 31 March 2014 and manages the day-to-
day activities of the Group. The Company Secretary acts as 
secretary to the Committee.
Role
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the 
GEC – the development and recommendation of strategic 
plans for consideration by the Board, the monitoring of the 
operating and ﬁnancial results against plans and forecasts and 
the development of risk management and control procedures.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
52
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Treasury Committee
Composition
The Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the 
Group Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant 
Group Treasurer, the Group Financial Controller, the Company 
Secretary and the Group Tax Manager. The Committee meets 
quarterly. The Assistant Group Treasurer acts as secretary to 
the Committee.
Role
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the 
Treasury Committee – day-to-day ﬁnancing and administrative 
matters and setting and monitoring detailed treasury policy for 
the Group within an overall policy framework established by 
the Board.
Information and development
Training and induction
Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, 
knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external 
seminars and brieﬁngs, through participation at meetings 
and through visits to operating units, both in the UK and 
overseas, as well as by receiving presentations from senior 
management. This is in addition to the access that every 
Director has to the Company Secretary, who is responsible 
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied 
with and advising the Board, through the Chairman, on new 
legislation and corporate governance matters. The Company 
Secretary is also in regular contact with the Board with 
suggestions of training that may be of particular relevance. A 
record is kept of any training undertaken.
Board Committees and Directors are given access to 
independent professional advice at the Group’s expense if 
they deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their 
responsibilities. Specific training provided to the Board during 
the year included Defence Training provided by Citigroup. 
A tailored induction programme is provided for each new 
Director. Overall, the aim of the induction programme is 
to introduce new Directors to the Group’s business, its 
DIVISION OF BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different individuals. The division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established; their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been 
agreed by the Board.
Chairman Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors
Responsible for leadership of the 
Board and ensuring its effectiveness 
across all aspects of its role, setting 
its agenda to ensure adequate 
discussion of all items of business 
and promoting openness and debate. 
The Chairman facilitates constructive 
relations between Non-Executive 
and Executive Directors and holds 
meetings with Non-Executive 
Directors without Executives being 
present. The Chairman also ensures 
all Directors receive accurate, 
timely and clear information 
and is responsible for effective 
communication between the Board 
and its shareholders.
Direct charge of the Company on a 
day-to-day basis. Accountable to the 
Board for the operational performance 
of the Group. Responsible for the 
development of strategy and its 
presentation to the Board, the 
implementation of the agreed Group 
strategy and the achievement of 
its agreed objectives, strategic 
direction of the Group, and its 
communication within the business 
and with shareholders and the 
investment community. Executive 
management including leadership of 
the executive team, ensuring robust 
management succession plans are in 
place and discussed with the Board 
and championing health and safety, 
risk, corporate responsibility and 
environmental matters.
Constructively challenge 
regarding strategy, performance 
of management and also satisfy 
themselves on the integrity of 
ﬁnancial information and controls and 
systems of risk management. 
Senior Independent Director 
Responsible for chairing the meeting 
of Non-Executive Directors for 
the purpose of evaluating the 
Chairman’s performance. The Senior 
Independent Director also provides 
an alternative communication channel 
for shareholders, and other Directors 
if required, as well as providing a 
sounding board for the Chairman.
  See page 42 for information on 
Board of Directors
Our Business
53
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
operations and its governance arrangements. Also included 
are meetings with senior management, sales visits to 
customers, presentations of key business areas, and tours of 
our UK warehouses, as well as receiving technical training on 
legal and governance issues and relevant documentation.
Board meetings
Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on 
the matters to be discussed at each meeting. The Board has 
now moved to using a third party Board portal. This enables 
faster and more secure distribution of information and reduces 
our effect on the environment.
At each Board meeting the Group Chief Executive presents 
a comprehensive update on the business issues across the 
Group and the Group Finance Director presents a detailed 
analysis of the ﬁnancial performance, as well as reports on 
investor relations and feedback from investors. GEC members 
and other senior managers also attend relevant parts of 
Board meetings in order to make presentations on their 
areas of responsibility, providing updates on developments 
and changes to the business. Between Board meetings, 
Directors also meet with GEC members and are provided 
with information in a timely manner on matters affecting the 
business as and when relevant.
The Board’s annual schedule of meetings normally includes 
a visit to one of our operating companies and this year the 
Board visited our North American operation (Allied). This 
visit provided the Directors with the opportunity to tour its 
warehouse, review operations, meet with the management of 
Allied and also included visits to a local branch and a supplier. 
This gave the Board a better insight into their strategic issues.
Board evaluation
The main purpose of the Board is to ensure the Group develops 
a clear and stretching strategy that is fully implemented and to 
support the Group in fulﬁlling its potential.
The actions resulting from last year’s evaluation, noted below, 
have been followed up:
 Strategy: more visibility of progress against targets by 
tracking agreed Key Performance Indicators at Board 
meetings
 Financial performance: more time to be spent on ﬁnancial 
performance for the year to date, with increased focus on 
regional and functional performance
 Succession planning: following changes to the Group’s 
operating model, the existing succession plans were 
reviewed and updated
We noted in last year’s report that we would be undertaking an 
external evaluation and we appointed Constal Limited to carry 
out this exercise for us. Constal work with companies to help 
identify ways to improve the performance of their boards; they 
have no other connection to the Company and therefore there 
are no issues around independence.
The Board recognises the beneﬁt of an external evaluation 
which it believes provides fresh insight and objectivity to its 
committees and Directors, enabling it to improve its leadership, 
effectiveness and focus. 
Further details of this year’s external evaluation process can 
be found on page 56.
Meeting attendance
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, demonstrating commitment to their role 
as Directors of the Company. The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary meetings of the Board are 
held as and when necessary.
Board 
(scheduled)
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee 
 Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings held during the year 7455
Peter Johnson 7 (7) – – − – 5 –
Ian Mason 7 (7) − − − − − − 
Simon Boddie 7 (7) − − − − − − 
Adrian Auer 7 (7) 4 (4) 5 (5) 5 (5)
Karen Guerra 7 (7) 4 (4) 5 (5) 5 (5)
Paul Hollingworth
1
7 (7) 4 (4) 5 (5) 4 (5)
John Pattullo 7 (7) 4 (4) 4 (5) 4 (5) 
Rupert Soames 7 (7) 4 (4) 5 (5) 5 (5)
(The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets)
1. Paul Hollingworth was not present at a meeting of the Nomination Committee as the matter under discussion was his re-appointment for a further  
three-year term.
54
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Director re-election
The Company’s Articles of Association state that each Director 
must retire from ofﬁce every three years. The Code goes 
beyond this, requiring all Directors to retire and stand for 
re-election at each Annual General Meeting. The Company 
complies with the Code requirement in this respect.
Paul Hollingworth’s second term of appointment as a Non-
Executive Director expired in May 2014. The Nomination 
Committee, following a review of his contribution to the 
Board, recommended that his appointment should be 
extended for a further three-year term. This recommendation 
was agreed by the Board.
The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and 
works together effectively as evidenced throughout this 
Annual Report. The Board, following its evaluation process, 
also considers that the performance of all the Directors 
continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to 
their role and therefore recommends their re-election. 
Further details of each Director standing for re-election are 
provided on pages 42 to 44 and details of their attendance at 
Board and Committee meetings are given in the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 54.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control, which has been designed and 
implemented to meet the particular requirements of the 
Group and the risks to which it is exposed. The Group has an 
established and ongoing process of risk management and 
internal control which has continued throughout the year 
under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts. During 2014 a new standardised risk 
assessment and reporting procedure was introduced across 
the business.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the 
recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal 
control, the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and 
risk management and reported the results to the Board. 
These reviews covered material controls, including ﬁnancial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management 
systems. Further details of this process are given in the Audit 
Committee Report on page 61 and the Strategic Report on 
page 28.
The Group’s internal control system can provide reasonable 
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss.
Going concern
In its review of the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended  
31 March 2014, the Audit Committee also considered analysis 
to support the going concern judgement. 
The Group’s activities, strategy and performance are 
discussed in the Group Chief Executive’s review on page 14.
Further details on the ﬁnancial performance, ﬁnancial position 
and cash ﬂows of the Group are discussed in the Business 
and Financial Review on page 22. 
Note 21 on page 123 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
provides details of the Group’s debt maturity proﬁle, 
capital management policy, hedging activities and ﬁnancial 
instruments and its exposures to interest rate and foreign 
currency risks. 
The Group is cash generative, as evidenced by its cash ﬂow 
performance, with free cash ﬂow representing 80.7% of proﬁt 
after tax for the year ended 31 March 2014. Management 
reviews its actual and forecast cash ﬂows each month to 
ensure that sufﬁcient facilities are in place to meet the 
Group’s requirements. 
At 31 March 2014, the Group’s net debt was £143.6 million 
with total committed debt and loan facilities of £296.9 million 
and undrawn committed facilities of £169.1 million.
The Group’s main sources of ﬁnance are a syndicated 
multi-currency facility from seven banks for US$75 million, 
£120million and €50 million maturing in November 2015 and 
US$150 million of Private Placement notes, split US$65 million 
maturing June 2015 and US$85 million maturing June 2017 .
Compliance with the Group’s banking covenants is monitored 
monthly and sensitivity analyses are periodically applied to 
forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt. 
At 31 March 2014 there was signiﬁcant headroom between 
the Group’s ﬁnancial position and its banking covenants; it is 
expected that such covenants will continue to be complied 
with for the foreseeable future.
The Group has sufﬁcient ﬁnancial resources, a large and 
geographically spread customer base and strong supplier 
relationships. Therefore, the Directors believe that the Group 
is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors believe that it 
is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Group’s accounts. 
The Directors conﬁrm that this statement has been prepared 
in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in October 2009.
Our Business
55
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Initial discussions between Constal, the Chairman and the 
Group Company Secretary were held to discuss the design of 
the questionnaire and what the Board was seeking to achieve 
from the evaluation. Constal was also available to answer any 
questions from other members of the Board.
The aim of the questionnaire sent to Board members was to 
gain views on certain key corporate governance areas and 
to give members an opportunity to say candidly what they 
thought; what was being done well and what needed to 
be improved. Views were also sought on the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director (SID) and also the workings of 
the Committees of the Board. 
The questionnaire included issues such as:
 Balance of skills and experience
 Effectiveness of meetings and team dynamics
 Development and performance against strategy
 Succession planning
 Risk management
 Training and development
The responses to the questionnaires were collated 
independently by Constal who prepared reports for the 
Chairman and the Chairman of each Committee. These 
reports were then reviewed and discussed by the Board and 
each of the Committees as appropriate.
The Chairman and the SID met to discuss the feedback 
on their own respective roles and a summary of this 
conversation was fed back to the Board. 
The results of this year’s evaluation were positive and it 
was noted that the Board members work well together in a 
constructive manner and bring a broad range of experience. It 
was also acknowledged that there had been a few changes to 
responsibilities and Board members over the last two years 
and that the Board needed time to settle down as a team. 
The Board supported the conclusions of the evaluation and a 
number of themes were identified for action which included:
 Strategy milestones and tracking: approach agreed as to 
the tracking of progress against the strategic priorities
 Focus on drivers of strategy: a rolling schedule of 
updates on the strategic priorities
 More information on competitors: update scheduled for 
the forthcoming strategy day, as well as ongoing updates
 Cultural diversity at the Board and throughout the 
organisation: review of the approach to diversity and 
inclusion throughout the organisation
 Organisational capability: review of the capability of 
the organisation to deliver the Group’s strategy with a 
particular focus on change capability
 Succession planning: ongoing item for discussion at the 
Nomination Committee
The Chairman also held one-to-one meetings with each of 
the Directors individually covering the themes outlined above, 
the dynamics of the Board, and the training and development 
needs of the Directors, as well as any other areas of concern. 
It was agreed that the Company Secretary will also continue 
to seek regular feedback from the individual Directors.
Board and Committee evaluation process
 LEADERSHIP
 EFFECTIV ENESS
Meetings with
Chairman,
the Company 
Secretary 
and Constal
July-August
One-to-one 
discussions
between Chairman
and Directors
 January-March
Online
questionnaires
circulated
September
Actions
agreed
 November
Analysis 
of responses.
Reporting and
recommendations 
to the Board and 
its Committees
November
56
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Relations with shareholders
The Company encourages two-way communication with both 
institutional and private investors. The Annual Report and 
Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive a 
copy. It is also available on the Company’s website  
www.electrocomponents.com, which additionally contains 
up-to-date information on the Group’s activities and published 
ﬁnancial results and presentations. 
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with 
institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the 
Group’s performance, which include meetings following 
the announcements of the annual and interim results. 
At these meetings the Executive Directors meet with 
major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and 
governance. The Chairman, SID and Non-Executive Directors 
are available for discussions with shareholders if required. 
During the year around 70 face-to-face meetings and 
telephone conference calls have been held with institutional 
shareholders in the United Kingdom, the United States 
and Europe, covering over 75% of the shareholder base. 
The Company has hosted visits to its operating facilities 
for institutional shareholders during the year and from 
time to time it hosts brieﬁngs for analysts and investors on 
speciﬁc topics related to business strategy and operations. 
In November 2013 the GEC member responsible for the 
Global IT function held one such brieﬁng for over 20 analysts 
and institutional shareholders on how the Group’s systems 
strategy will enable growth. The presentations used for this 
briefing and investor meetings during the year are available to 
download from the Company’s website.
The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board 
on investor relations, including reports compiled by the 
Company’s brokers and containing feedback from institutional 
shareholders, ensuring that the views of the shareholders are 
communicated to the Board through these reports.
The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is 
maintained with shareholders and the Annual General Meeting 
is used as an additional opportunity for the Chairman and other 
Board members to meet with shareholders and investors and 
give them the opportunity to ask questions. Final voting results 
are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on 
the Company’s website following the meeting.
Our Business
57
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Audit Committee Report
Dear fellow shareholder
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to present 
our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the 
Committee and its activities during the year.
The Committee aims to protect the interests of  
shareholders by:
 Assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of the ﬁnancial 
and corporate reporting and auditing processes
 Ensuring effective internal control and risk management 
systems are in place
 Approving the remit of the Internal Audit function and 
reviewing its effectiveness and findings
 Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained 
between the Group and its Auditors including the 
recommendation to approve the Auditors’ appointment and 
fees 
 Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external 
audit process
 Reviewing whistleblowing, anti-bribery and fraud 
procedures
Specific objectives achieved during the year:
During the year, one of our main objectives was to conduct 
an external audit tender. The Committee, including myself, 
along with the Group Finance Director, worked with the Group 
Finance team to agree the process and success criteria for 
selecting our auditors. As a consequence we are proposing 
the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) with 
effect from the date of our Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
We would like to thank KPMG for their professional and valued 
contribution as our auditors. Further details of the exercise are 
given on page 63.
We also carried out our first external evaluation, which found 
that there were no major issues raised in relation to the 
working of the Committee, although it was agreed that it had 
Corporate Website
Further details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit 
Committee are available on our website.
 Read more online at 
www.electrocomponents.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
more of a role to play in reviewing the processes for monitoring 
Group performance against strategic targets and milestones.
A new risk management approach was introduced in 2014, 
which has implemented a new standardised risk assessment 
and reporting procedure across the business. Further details 
of our risk management approach can be found in the 
Strategic Report on page 28.
Specific objectives for the coming year:
For the forthcoming year, we will be focused on establishing 
a close working relationship with our proposed new Auditors, 
PwC. We have commenced the transition process and intend 
to work closely with PwC to achieve a high quality audit for 
the year ending 31 March 2015.
As a result of the external evaluation, noted above, the 
Committee will be more involved in reviewing the processes 
for monitoring Group performance against strategic targets 
and milestones.
The Committee considers internal control to be of paramount 
importance for the Company and its shareholders and will 
continue to remain focused on maintaining standards at a high 
level going forward.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone 
for their hard work over the year, including KPMG as our 
Auditors, and the Internal Audit and Group Finance teams, as 
well as others within the Group who have contributed. 
Paul Hollingworth 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
22 May 2014
58
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014
May July November January
At specific meetings
 Review of Financial 
Statements:
 − Draft Preliminary 
Statement and 
Report and Accounts
 − Group Finance 
procedures, 
disclosures and 
management 
representation letter
 − Going Concern  
review 
 − Auditors’ highlights 
memorandum 
 Risk & Internal 
Control: 
 − Business continuity 
update
 − Internal Audit report
 External Auditors:
 − Review of non-audit 
fees
 Compliance: 
 − Audit Committee 
terms of reference 
 − Bribery Act – gifts 
and hospitality 
update 
 − Review of  
whistleblowing  
procedures
 − Meeting with KPMG 
(without Executive 
Management)
 Review of Financial 
Statements:
 − Interim Management 
Statement
 Risk & Internal 
Control:
 − Risk Review
 − Review of Internal 
Audit Performance 
(without Internal 
Audit)
 − Internal Audit report
 External Auditors:
 − Audit T ender Update
 − Review of Auditors’ 
Performance and 
Compliance
 − Review of Auditors’ 
Audit Strategy
 − Review of non-audit 
fees
 Review of Financial 
Statements:
 − Draft 2014 Half-year 
financial report
 − Auditors’ highlights 
memorandum
 − Going Concern  
review 
 − Group Finance  
procedures,  
disclosures and  
management  
representation letter 
 − Impacts of changes 
in accounting on the 
Half-year financial 
results.
 Risk & Internal 
Control:
 − Observations on  
Internal Audit
 − Meeting with Head 
of Internal Audit 
(without executive  
management)
 − Internal Audit report 
 External Auditors:
 − Audit tender update
 − Review of audit fees 
for 2014
 − Review of non-audit 
fees
 Compliance:
 − Audit Committee  
evaluation
 − Audit Committee  
timetable
 Review of Financial 
Statements:
 − Interim Management 
Statement
 − Accounting 
Standards, issues 
and year-end 
reporting
 − Accounting update 
 − Auditors’ Report and  
Audit Committee  
Report
 Risk & Internal 
Control:
 − Internal Audit plan for 
2015 
 − Internal Audit report
 External Auditors:
 − Audit T ender update
 − Review of non-audit 
fees
 Compliance:
 − Review of  
whistleblowing  
procedures
 − Annual fraud report
Our Business
59
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
Membership and meetings
Committee members:
Paul Hollingworth (Chairman)  
Adrian Auer 
Karen Guerra 
John Pattullo 
Rupert Soames
Other regular attendees:
Company Chairman  
Group Chief Executive  
Group Finance Director  
Group Company Secretary  
Group Financial Controller  
Head of Internal Audit  
Group Risk Manager 
Auditors
The Board is satisﬁed that the Chairman 
of the Committee has the current 
and relevant ﬁnancial and accounting 
experience required by the provisions 
of the Code and that the other 
members of the Committee have a 
sufficiently wide range of business 
experience and expertise such that 
the Committee can effectively fulfil its 
responsibilities. Details of the skills and 
experience of the Committee members 
are given in their biographies on pages 
42 to 44. 
Attendance of others is at the invitation 
of the Committee Chairman only and 
does not restrict the Committee’s 
independent decision-making. 
Meetings are scheduled in accordance 
with the ﬁnancial and reporting cycles 
of the Company. 
Members and their attendance at 
meetings during the year are set out in 
the Corporate Governance section on 
page 54.
The Committee has independent 
access to the Internal Audit team and to 
the Auditors. The Head of Internal Audit 
and the Auditors have direct access to 
the Chairman of the Committee outside 
formal Committee meetings.
Minutes of each Committee meeting 
are circulated to Board members.
Activities during the year
Financial reporting
In its ﬁnancial reporting to shareholders and other key 
interested parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and 
prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s business model, strategy and 
performance. Details of the Group’s KPIs are shown on page 
20 of the Strategic Report.
The Committee reviews and advises the Board on the Group’s 
Annual and Half-year ﬁnancial reports, interim management 
statements and other periodic statements. 
To support its review, regular reports are also received from 
the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller. 
The Auditors also report on the outcomes of its half-year 
review and annual audit.
Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement
The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting 
policies and practices adopted by the Group and any 
signiﬁcant areas of judgement that may materially impact 
reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, 
compliance with financial reporting standards and the relevant 
requirements around financial and governance reporting. 
Details on accounting policies and areas of judgement can be 
found in Note 1 on page 101.
Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement 
considered by the Committee during the year, and how these 
were addressed, are set out below. Further details in each of 
these areas are detailed in the summary of key estimates and 
judgements in Note 1 on page 101:
 Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a material 
proportion of the Group’s net assets. At 31 March 2014, 
the Group had £258.8 million (2013: £261 .9 million) of 
inventory on the balance sheet. The Group estimates the 
net realisable value of inventory in order to determine the 
value of any provision required and key judgements relate 
to the duration of product lifecycles, amount of anticipated 
sales over this lifecycle and the value recoverable from any 
excess stock. The Committee reviews reports from the 
Internal Audit team on inventory valuation procedures as 
part of their annual programme, with a particular focus this 
year on inventory valuation in the UK.
 Pension valuation: The Group has a significant defined 
benefit pension scheme in the UK and smaller schemes 
in Ireland and Germany. At 31 March 2014, the total 
deficit in relation to defined benefit pension schemes 
was £40.9 million (2013: £19.0 million). Small changes to 
the assumptions used to value the UK retirement benefit 
obligation can have a significant impact on the financial 
position and results of the Group. The Group is currently 
finalising the outcome of the funding valuation as at 
31 March 2013 with the Pension Scheme Trustees. The 
Committee reviews the assumptions put forward by the 
actuaries and the Group Pension Manager.
 Goodwill: There is £156.8 million of goodwill on the 
balance sheet at 31 March 2014 (2013: £172.2 million), 
which principally relates to the acquisition of Allied Inc. in 
July 1999. The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for 
impairment using a value in use model using cash flow 
and discount rates as set out in Note 12 on page 116. The 
Committee reviews these impairment tests every year, 
confirming that significant headroom is in place and no 
impairment provision is required.
60
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM T axation: The Group’s taxation provision requires 
accounting estimates regarding tax liabilities accruing 
across our multiple geographies and the recoverability of 
losses. This year the Board reviewed and endorsed the 
Group’s tax strategy. The Committee reviews the effective 
tax rate and the balance sheet provision at the half-year 
and the full-year, and discusses the position with senior 
management as well as the Auditors.
In its review of the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2014 the Committee also considered analysis to 
support the Company’s going concern statement. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board’s responsibilities for internal control are set out in 
the Corporate Governance Report on page 55.
The Committee receives quarterly reports from the Head of 
Internal Audit on the performance of the system of internal 
control, and on its effectiveness in managing material risks 
and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
The Committee annually reviews the Group’s risk 
management process with the outcome of the review being 
reported to the Board. This, together with the provision of 
regular updates to the Board on the material risks, allows the 
Board to make the assessment on the systems of internal 
control and the residual risk for the purposes of making its 
public statement. Further information regarding principal risks 
and uncertainties to the business is given on page 28 of the 
Strategic Report.
Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been 
identiﬁed through the monitoring processes outlined above, 
plans for strengthening them are put in place and action plans 
regularly monitored until complete. During the period under 
review there were no control failings or weaknesses that 
resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The Board’s report on the systems of internal control and their 
effectiveness, together with the going concern statement, can 
be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 55.
Internal ﬁnancial controls
Internal ﬁnancial controls are the systems employed 
by the Group to enable the Directors to discharge their 
responsibilities for ﬁnancial matters. Those responsibilities are 
noted on page 90.
The main ﬁnancial control elements are described below.
Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board 
and the Board Committees, with delegation of operating 
responsibility through the Board Committees to management 
in all locations. Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals 
are in place to outline the accounting policies and controls 
necessary in identiﬁed areas of ﬁnancial risk.
Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include 
weekly, monthly and annual reporting cycles. An annual budget 
is set across the Group and approved by the GEC and the 
Board. This is then updated through quarterly reforecasts, 
and tracked through monthly reporting of actual against both 
budget, forecast and prior year. Variances are reviewed by both 
the GEC and the Board. In each market local leadership teams 
review variances and key performance indicators. These are 
then reviewed at regional and global levels by cross functional 
teams, and by global functional leadership teams. Speciﬁc 
reporting systems cover treasury operations, major investment 
projects and legal and insurance activities, which are reviewed 
by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
Internal audit
The Committee annually reviews and approves the scope and 
resourcing of the internal audit programme with the Group’s 
internal auditors. The scope is decided upon by reference 
to the perceived geographic, functional and operating risks 
around the business. These risks are identified from previous 
audit experience and input from the senior management 
team.
The Committee reviews:
 The level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal 
Audit function to conduct this programme of work
 The summary of the results of each audit and the 
resolution of any control issues identiﬁed
 The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function
The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the 
Chairman of the Committee, in the form of telephone calls 
and face-to-face meetings. These discussions are around 
audit planning and matters noted during internal audit 
assignments. The Company Chairman and other members of 
the Committee are also available if required. 
On an annual basis the Committee meets with the Head of 
Internal Audit without the presence of the Executive Directors. 
During the year, there were discussions around the control 
environment across the Group and in particular to ensure that, 
following the global realignment, appropriate authorisation 
levels and processes are in place. 
Our Business
61
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
Auditors
The Committee and the Board put great emphasis on the 
objectivity of the Group’s Auditors, KPMG, in their reporting 
to shareholders. To ensure full and open communication, the 
Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at 
all of the Committee meetings.
The performance and effectiveness of the auditors is reviewed 
annually by the Committee, and covers qualiﬁcation, expertise, 
resources and re-appointment as well as assurance that 
there are no issues which could adversely affect the auditors’ 
independence and objectivity taking into account the relevant 
standards. As part of risk evaluation planning the Committee 
considers the risk of its current auditors withdrawing from the 
market.
Feedback is collated from senior management around 
the Group, which is given to KPMG to help them improve 
their processes. This forms part of KPMG’s own system 
of quality control. The Committee also met with KPMG, 
without management being present, to review the adequacy 
of controls and any signiﬁcant areas where management 
judgement has been applied.
The Auditors’ engagement letter and the scope of the year’s 
annual audit cycle is discussed in advance by the Committee, 
ensuring that any changes in circumstances arising since the 
previous year are taken into account. Following discussions 
between local finance teams and the local KPMG ofﬁces and 
a review by Group management, audit and non-audit fees are 
reviewed by the Committee and are then recommended to 
the Board for approval. Details of audit and non-audit fees are 
given in Note 4 on page 106.
A formal statement of independence from the Auditors is 
received each year. The Group will not engage the Auditors to 
undertake any work that could threaten their independence.
The Group has a policy on employment of former employees 
of the Auditors. This requires that any such employment is 
considered on a case by case basis and takes into account 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards on such 
appointments. Any appointment requires approval by 
a combination of the Group Finance Director, the Audit 
Committee and the Board, depending on the seniority of the 
appointment. 
The Company considers the annual appointment of the 
Auditors by the shareholders at the AGM to be a fundamental 
safeguard. 
Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditors
The Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the Auditors’ independence or 
objectivity. In determining the policy, the Committee has taken into account possible threats to auditor independence and 
objectivity. 
Policy on non-audit services:
 When considering the use of the Auditors to undertake non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times 
give consideration to the provisions of the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the 
preservation of independence and objectivity
 The Auditors must certify that they are acting independently
 In providing a non-audit service, the Auditors should not:
 − audit their own work
 − make management decisions for the Company
 − create a mutuality of interest
 − ﬁnd themselves in the role of advocate for the Company
 Before commissioning non-audit services, the Committee or the Group Finance Director, as appropriate, must ensure 
that the Auditors are satisﬁed that there are no issues as regards independence and objectivity
 The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the Auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a 
speciﬁc project with a cost that is not expected to exceed £50,000. This work has to be reported to the Committee at its 
next meeting. If the cost is expected to exceed £50,000, the agreement of the Committee is required before the work is 
commissioned. In either case, other potential providers must be adequately considered
 The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the Auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere 
in the Group in excess of £10,000
62
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM External audit tender
As anticipated in last year’s Report we have, during the year under review, carried out an external audit tender process. 
This is in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on Audit Committees and the Code, both published 
September 2012, which stipulated that FTSE 350 companies should put their external audit services contract out to tender 
at least once every ten years. There are no contractual obligations that will restrict the Committee’s choice of external 
auditors.
KPMG have been in place as the Group’s Auditors since 1984, with no tender having been undertaken during this period. 
This year the Group Audit Engagement Director was due to be rotated in line with the Auditing Practices Boards’ Ethical 
Standards. The last rotation took place in July 2009. This, along with the changing regulatory landscape, provided an 
opportunity to undertake an external tender. 
The audit tender process was managed by an internal team, including the Chairman of the Committee and the Group 
Finance Director. A shortlist of six firms used by FTSE 250 companies was drawn up and the firms were invited to take part 
in a two stage process, which had been discussed and agreed with the Committee beforehand.
Initially, all firms were invited to make a short presentation covering their relevant industry and customer experience, global 
reach and proposed team credentials. They were also asked to highlight ways in which they could add value to the Group 
through the audit process, and to confirm their independence to act as the Group’s auditors.
These firms were ranked by the internal team and the Group Finance Director, and the Committee approved a list of three 
to be invited back to present formal proposals, including fee quotes. Presentations were made to the internal team, the 
Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Committee in early January and were assessed using a number of criteria 
including:
 The nature and scope of the firm’s international presence, including global quality and assurance of the audit process 
and deliverables
 The quality and experience of the proposed audit partner and team, and the continuity of the proposed audit team
 Relevant experience of providing audit services to publicly quoted groups
 The ability to provide the full range of services required, including audit and specialist technical accounting advice
 The suitability of the audit approach and transition plan, including the use of systems technology
 Approach to project management, including the central coordination of timelines, planning, costs and resourcing
 Approach to managing audit independence and other governance requirements and the ability to maintain audit 
independence, particularly in respect of the provision of non-audit services
 Value for money, particularly the added value that the audit process will bring to the organisation
 Approach to innovation and continuous improvement of audit processes
Based on the above process and criteria the Committee has recommended that the Board propose to shareholders that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) are appointed as the Group’s Auditors for the 2015 audit at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee would like to thank KPMG for their professional and valued contribution as our Auditors over many years 
and we look forward to working with PwC going forward.
Our Business
63
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
Committee evaluation
The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of the 
external Board evaluation process performed during the year 
under review. Details of the evaluation process can be found 
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 56.
Fraud
The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and 
detection of fraud in the Group. Suspected cases of fraud 
must be reported to the Group Company Secretary within 48 
hours and investigated by operational management or Internal 
Audit, as appropriate. The outcome of any investigation is 
reported to the Group Company Secretary. A register of 
all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of any 
investigation is kept, which is circulated to the Committee on 
a regular basis. During the year in question, very few frauds 
were reported, none of which were of a material nature.
Anti-bribery
An anti-bribery policy applies throughout the global business. 
This policy is implemented by means of a global compliance 
programme which focuses on the risk areas identified. All 
managers across the Group are required to sign and accept 
the policy on an annual basis, and managers and all staff 
in risk areas have access to an online training module. A 
gift and hospitality register has been introduced to ensure 
transparency.
Whistleblowing
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the 
Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements 
whereby staff may, in conﬁdence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in ﬁnancial reporting or other matters 
and ensuring that these concerns are investigated and 
escalated as appropriate. This is run by an external third party. 
Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak Up internally and 
is available to all employees in the Group. The Committee 
receives aggregated reports on matters raised through these 
services and monitors their use throughout the Group.
64
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM “The Board is fully committed to 
showing leadership in fostering 
diversity of gender, race and 
nationality throughout all levels 
of the business”
Corporate Website
Further details on the roles and responsibilities of the 
Nomination Committee are available on our website. 
 Read more online at 
www.electrocomponents.com
Dear fellow shareholder
As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I would like to 
present our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the 
Committee and its activities during the year.
The Committee meets as required and has responsibility 
for matters relating to Board succession planning and 
makes recommendations to the Board where appropriate. 
Succession planning for the GEC is also reviewed. The 
Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge 
and experience are required on the Board and, if necessary, 
the balance of independence. During the period under review 
the Committee met five times. 
Minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board 
members.
Committee members:
Peter Johnson (Chairman)  
Adrian Auer  
Karen Guerra 
Paul Hollingworth 
John Pattullo 
Rupert Soames
Details of the skills and experience of the Committee 
members are given in their biographies on pages 42 to 44.
Specific objectives achieved during the year:
The Committee reviewed the emergency, interim and long-
term succession plans for the Executive Directors. In addition 
it considered the extension of the terms of appointment of  
the Chairman as well as reviewing and recommending to the 
Board the renewal of Paul Hollingworth’s appointment for a 
further three-year term.
Our first external evaluation took place during the year and it 
was noted that going forward the Committee would focus on 
succession planning and its strategic role by taking a much 
longer term view of the needs of the Board. 
Specific objectives for the coming year:
The Committee will be considering closely the long-term 
succession plans for both the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors on a more strategic level.
Nomination Committee Report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Our Business
65
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Appointment of Directors
No directors have been appointed during the year.
Currently, where a new director is to be appointed, a 
candidate proﬁle is recommended which is then used to brief 
external recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee 
to undertake the selection process. Initial meetings are held 
generally by the Company Chairman and the Group Chief 
Executive with prospective candidates and a shortlist of 
individuals is then selected to meet with other Committee 
members. The Committee then meets and decides which 
candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors will set 
out expected time commitments. Such time commitments 
can involve peaks of activity at particular times. The Non-
Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office and at our AGM.
Any future appointments to the Board will receive an induction 
in respect of their directorship similar to that employed for 
the appointments we made in January 2013. This will typically 
include meetings with senior management, sales visits to 
customers, presentations from key business areas, and tours 
of our UK warehouses, as well as technical training on legal 
and governance issues.
Diversity
The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises 
its adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering 
succession planning and recruitment at Board level, and 
undertakes that any recruitment consultants or other advisers 
it appoints to help with these tasks are made aware of the 
Group Diversity Policy. The Committee states that it is in the 
best interests of the Company to ensure balance and diversity 
at Board level, and will encourage recruitment consultants 
to widen search parameters so that a diverse range of 
candidates may be considered, where appropriate. 
Peter Johnson 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
22 May 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
66
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Summary
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 
and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013. The Report meets the requirements of 
the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules. In this Report we describe how 
the principles of good governance relating to directors’ 
remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (Code), are applied in practice. The Remuneration 
Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the 
Company has complied with these governance rules and 
best practice provisions.
Corporate Website
Further details on the roles and responsibilities of the 
Remuneration Committee are available on our website.
 Read more online at 
www.electrocomponents.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear fellow shareholder
On behalf of the Board of Directors, it gives me great pleasure 
to present to you the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 
the year ended 31 March 2014 for which we will be seeking 
approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 24 July 
2014. In line with the new reporting regulations that came 
into effect on 1 October 2013, this Directors’ Remuneration 
Report (Report) is split into three parts: this Statement; a 
Policy Report (subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 
2014 AGM); and an Annual Report on Remuneration (subject 
to an advisory vote). All of us who serve on the Remuneration 
Committee (Committee) hope that you find the new layout 
of the Report to be clear and transparent; in common with 
many other public companies we have worked hard to find 
our way through the thicket of new reporting requirements, 
and to abide by the spirit of the new regulations. It is already 
clear that companies are taking different approaches to 
particular requirements, and our view is that reporting will 
evolve over the next few years as best practice becomes 
established. So, we have set out with good intent, but there 
may be parts where others have taken a different approach, 
and we undertake to watch carefully over the next few years 
and adapt to best practice as it emerges. In the meantime, 
I hope that we can count on your support for our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy (which remains unchanged from last 
year), and its implementation during the year.
Objectives for remuneration
The principal objective of our remuneration policy is to enable 
the Company to attract, motivate and retain the people it 
needs to maximise long-term value created by the business. 
Our remuneration policy has been designed to support this 
principle by:
 Aligning the interests of executives and shareholders
 Achieving an appropriate balance between fixed and 
performance-related pay
 Achieving an appropriate balance between the rewards 
available for meeting short and long-term objectives
 Supporting the Group’s behaviours and culture
 Complying with corporate governance best practice 
guidelines
 Expressing the reward strategy in a way that is 
understandable, clear and meaningful.
Our Business
67
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Shareholder engagement during the year
During April, we consulted with our major shareholders and 
their representative bodies on our proposed update of the 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) rules which we are asking 
shareholders to adopt at the forthcoming AGM. Details of the 
Plan are given in the Notice of Meeting. We have received no 
responses from shareholders or their representative bodies 
expressing any concerns with the proposed updates to the 
LTIP .
How remuneration supports the 
business strategy
Pages 12 and 13 of this Annual Report set out 
Electrocomponents’ strategy, which is based on seven key 
priorities. Our success in delivering this strategy is in turn 
measured by four key performance indicators (KPIs): sales 
growth, return on sales, return on capital employed, and free 
cash flow as a percentage of sales. The annual bonus and LTIP 
performance measures were selected to ensure executive 
incentive outcomes are closely aligned with our performance 
against these KPIs, as follows:
Key Performance Indicator
Group sales growth
Group return on sales
Return on capital employed
Free cash ﬂow as a % of sales
Reﬂected in
bonus measures?
Reﬂected in
LTIP measures?
✓
Sales growth
✓
EPS
✓
TSR
✓
PBTR
✓
Cash ﬂow
We have developed our strategy to deliver long-term growth 
in shareholder value. Our short and long-term incentives link 
directly to the KPIs that we believe will deliver that strategy. 
So if the Executive Directors and management team do 
well, shareholders will too. If shareholders suffer pain, so 
will management. The measurement benchmarks are linked 
to the strategy KPIs, and our LTIP combines measures of 
both absolute performance (how well have we done?) and 
relative performance (how well have we done compared 
with others?). The requirement to defer one third of any 
bonus earned, and the use of LTIP performance shares, also 
serves to emphasise long-term value creation. It has been our 
practice to design our executive remuneration arrangements 
to ensure that executives can earn more from performance-
related pay than from fixed pay; and, within the element of 
performance-related pay, that the long-term element is more 
valuable than the short-term. We think that philosophy works 
well. 
Rupert Soames 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
22 May 2014
68
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, and will be 
subject to a binding vote at the 2014 AGM. If approved at the AGM, the Policy will come into effect on 24 July 2014.
Executive Director remuneration policy table
This Policy has been designed to support the principal objective of enabling the Company to attract, motivate and retain the 
people it needs to maximise the value of the business. 
Component: Base salary
Objective To provide broadly market median levels of fixed pay over the longer term, with increases 
reflecting Company and individual performance. 
Operation Generally reviewed each year, with increases effective 1 June with reference to salary 
levels at other FTSE 250 companies of broadly similar size, sector and international scope to 
Electrocomponents.
The Committee also considers the salary increases applying across the rest of the UK business 
when determining increases.
Opportunity Salaries in respect of the year under review (and for the following year) are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration. Base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome of 
the annual review. Factors that are considered include: increases for other employees, changes 
in role and responsibilities, market levels, and individual and Company performance.
In circumstances where an Executive Director’s salary is already consistent with policy, salary 
increases will not normally be materially different to those given to other senior managers in the 
Group.
Performance measures Not applicable.
Component: Pension
Objective To provide a level of retirement benefit that is competitive in the relevant market.
Operation Existing Directors, who previously participated in the Defined Benefit section of the Company 
Pension Scheme (Scheme), now receive cash in lieu reflecting the prior arrangement on a cost 
neutral basis to the Company.
The Defined Benefit section of the Scheme is now closed to new entrants.
Opportunity For current Executive Directors
CEO: 30% of base salary 
CFO: 43.5% of base salary
For future external hires, the level of pension contribution will be determined in the context of 
market norms.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Performance measures Not applicable.
Our Business
69
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Component: Benefits
Objective Provision of benefits in line with the market.
Operation Executive Directors are provided with a company car (or a cash allowance in lieu thereof), mobile 
phone, fuel allowance and medical insurance. Other benefits may be introduced from time to 
time to ensure the benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects the circumstances 
of the individual Director.
Opportunity None of the existing Executive Directors received total taxable benefits exceeding 10% of salary 
during any of the last three financial years, and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits 
provided will exceed this level in the financial years over which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances 
(for example relocation expenses or expatriation allowance) or in circumstances where factors 
outside the Company’s control have changed materially (e.g. market increases in insurance 
costs).
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
Performance measures Not applicable.
Component: Annual bonus
Objective To focus Executive Directors on achieving demanding annual targets relating to Company 
performance.
Operation Performance targets are set at the start of the year and aligned with the annual budget agreed 
by the Board. At the end of the year, the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to 
which these targets have been achieved.
For threshold performance, the bonus payout will normally be nil, but in no circumstances will 
exceed 10% of the maximum opportunity.
Two-thirds of the total bonus payment is paid in cash. One-third of the total bonus payment is 
converted into Electrocomponents shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP). These 
shares vest after two years, subject to continued employment and forfeiture in instances of 
misconduct or misstatement.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity: 
150% of base salary
Target opportunity: 
75% of base salary
Performance measures Sales growth
 Profit before tax and reorganisation costs (PBTR)
 Cash flow
The weightings for these performance conditions are agreed by the Committee at the start of 
each year, according to annual business priorities. No one element will be weighted less than 
15%, or more than 50% of the total opportunity.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus outcomes (including down to zero) 
to ensure alignment of pay with performance and fairness to shareholders and participants. Any 
such discretion will be within the limits of the scheme, and will be fully disclosed in the relevant 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Further details, including the performance targets attached to the bonus for the year under 
review, are given on page 81 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
70
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Component: LTIP
Objective To incentivise Executive Directors and senior managers to deliver long-term performance by 
aligning their performance with shareholders’ interests and reflect best practice.
Operation A conditional award of shares (Award) is made annually.  
The LTIP performance period is three years.   
The Award is subject both to a performance condition and, normally, on continued employment 
with the Group until the determination of the performance condition. Threshold performance 
results in nil vesting.
Additionally, for the Award to vest the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a 
sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic LTIP outcomes to ensure the pay outcome 
is aligned with value creation for shareholders and that the outcome is a fair reflection of the 
Company’s performance. 
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards lapse. 
There is no re-testing.
There will be a further holding period of at least six months following vesting.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity: 
150% of basic salary
In normal circumstances, however, the Committee would grant awards with a value below this 
level.
Details of actual LTIP awards in respect of each year will be disclosed in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
A payment equivalent to the dividends that would have accrued on the number of shares that 
vest will be made to participants on vesting.
Performance measures Vesting of one half of the Awards made to Executive Directors is dependent upon 
Electrocomponents’ three-year total shareholder return (TSR) percentage outperformance of 
a benchmark. Vesting of the other half of the Award is conditional on growth in the Company’s 
earnings per share (EPS).
Further details, including the performance targets attached to the LTIP in respect of each year, 
will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Component: Save As You Earn (SAYE)
Objective To encourage the ownership of Electrocomponents plc shares.
Operation An HMRC approved scheme where employees (including Executive Directors) may save an 
agreed amount up to the individual monthly limit set by HMRC from time to time over three or 
five years. Options are normally granted at a discount of up to 20%. 
Opportunity Savings are capped at an agreed amount up to the individual monthly limit set by HMRC from 
time to time. 
Performance measures Not applicable.
Our Business
71
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Component: Share ownership
Objective To align Executive Director and shareholder interests and reinforce long-term decision-making.
Operation Executive Directors are expected to retain at least 50% of any share awards that vest (net of 
tax) in order to help build up the following required personal holdings of Electrocomponents plc 
shares:
CEO: 200% of salary 
CFO: 100% of salary
Only shares that are held beneficially count in the assessment of whether an Executive Director 
has met the required ownership level.
Opportunity Not applicable.
Performance measures Not applicable.
 
Notes to the policy table
Payments from previous awards
The Company will honour any commitment entered into, and Executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any 
award made, prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report, i.e. before 24 July 
2014. Details of these awards are, and will be, disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting
The annual bonus performance measures have been selected to directly reinforce our medium-term performance framework 
of (1) higher sales growth, (2) improved profitability, and (3) strong free cash flow (see pages 12 and 13 for further details of 
our strategy). The LTIP vests based on three-year TSR outperformance of the FTSE 250 index and achievement of three-year 
EPS growth targets. The Committee selected TSR and EPS as performance measures because it felt this would provide a 
good balance between external and internal measures of performance, as well as absolute and relative performance. TSR 
aligns performance with shareholders’ interests. EPS is a measure of the profitability of the Company that directly reflects 
management performance, and is a measure used by investors in deciding whether to invest in the Company. EPS is measured 
on a fully diluted basis, as shown in the Group’s financial statements, as this provides an independently verifiable measure of 
performance. 
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points. 
Bonus targets are aligned with the annual budget agreed by the Board. LTIP targets reflect industry context, expectations of 
what will constitute appropriately challenging performance levels, and factors specific to the Company.
Differences from remuneration policy for other employees
The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles as described above. Annual salary 
reviews across the Group take into account Company performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar 
roles in comparable companies.
All executives and senior managers are eligible to participate in annual bonus schemes. Opportunities and performance 
measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individual’s role. Other members of the Group Executive 
Committee participate in the DSBP and LTIP on similar terms as the Executive Directors, although award sizes may vary. Below 
this level, senior managers are eligible to participate in the LTIP . Grants are based on personal performance and vest after three 
years subject to continued employment. All UK-based employees are eligible to participate in the Company’s HMRC approved 
savings-related share scheme on identical terms. Employees based outside the UK are eligible to participate in a cash-based 
alternative on similar terms.
72
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Performance scenario charts
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for Executive Directors, and the potential mix 
between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, ‘On-Target’ and 
‘Maximum’.
Potential opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy applied to the base salary at 1 April 2014. For the annual bonus, 
the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2014/15. It should be noted that any 
awards granted under the DSBP do not normally vest until the second anniversary of the date of grant, and LTIP awards do 
not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant. This illustration is intended to show the relationship between 
executive pay and performance. Please note, however, that actual pay delivered will be further influenced by changes in the 
Company’s share price and dividends paid.
Valuation assumptions
The ‘Minimum’ scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits (i.e. fixed remuneration), being the only elements of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration package not linked to performance.  Pension contributions are 30% of base salary for the 
Group Chief Executive and 43.5% for the Group Finance Director.
The ‘On-Target’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target bonus payout (75% of salary) and LTIP threshold 
vesting at 0% of the maximum award level.
The ‘Maximum’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout under all incentives (150% of salary under the annual 
bonus, and 100% and 80% of salary under the LTIP for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, respectively). 
The value of LTIP assumes no increase in the underlying value of the shares.
£771k
£1,206k
£2,209k
 - 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
Minimum
On-Target
Maximum
Group Chief Executive
100%
64%
35%
36%
39% 26%
Fixed Pay Annual bonus LTIP
£568k
£859k
£1,457k
Minimum
Maximum
Fixed Pay Annual bonus LTIP
Group Finance Director
100%
66%
39%
34%
40% 21%
On-Target
 - 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
Our Business
73
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Approach to Executive Director recruitment remuneration
External appointment
In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make 
use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows:
Approach to Executive Director recruitment remuneration
Base salary
The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of 
the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make above-market phased 
increases over a period of two or three years, subject to the individual’s development and performance in the role.
Benefits
New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include (but are not limited to) the provision of a 
company car or car allowance, medical insurance, company mobile phone, expatriation allowances and any necessary 
expenses relating to an executive’s relocation.
Pension
New appointees will receive pension contributions into a defined contribution pension arrangement or an equivalent 
cash supplement, or a combination of both.
SAYE
New appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to all other employees.
Annual bonus
The bonus structure described in the policy table will apply to new appointees. The maximum opportunity will be 150% 
of salary, pro-rated in the year of joining to reflect the proportion of that year employed.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into the DSBP on the same terms as other Executive Directors.
LTIP
New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP with a face value of up to 150% of salary.  Other features of the 
Awards will be as described in the policy table. 
In determining the appropriate remuneration structure and level for the appointee, the Committee will take into consideration 
all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of our shareholders. The Committee may also need 
to make an award of shares or cash payment in respect of a new appointment to ‘buy-out’ incentive arrangements forfeited 
on leaving a previous employer, over and above the approach and award limits outlined in the table above, availing itself of 
Listing Rule 9.4.2R if necessary. In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions 
attached to the awards being bought out, and the likelihood of those conditions being met. Any such buy-out will have a fair 
value no greater than the fair value of the awards forfeited, and details will be fully disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on 
Remuneration. 
Internal promotion to the Board
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external 
appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive 
Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not 
otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Executive Director remuneration policy at the time of promotion.
74
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Service contracts and policy for payment for loss of office
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee. 
Executive Directors have service agreements that operate on a 12-month rolling basis. In line with the Committee’s policy, 
these service agreements provide for 12 months’ notice by the Company and by the Executive Directors. The Company entered 
into an updated service agreement with Ian Mason on 1 March 2001 .  This agreement replaced all prior arrangements and was 
amended on 24 March 2014. The Company entered into a service agreement with Simon Boddie on 25 May 2005. Copies of 
Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office.
The Committee’s policy for Directors’ termination payments is to provide only what would normally be due to Directors had they 
remained in employment in respect of the relevant notice period, and not to go beyond their normal contractual entitlements. 
Any incentive arrangements will be dealt with subject to the relevant rules, with any discretion exercised by the Committee on 
a case-by-case basis taking into account the circumstances of the termination. Termination payments will also take into account 
any statutory entitlement at the appropriate level, to be considered by the Committee on the same basis. The Committee will 
monitor and where appropriate enforce the Directors’ duty to mitigate loss. When the Committee believes that it is essential to 
protect the Company’s interests, additional arrangements may be entered into (for example post-termination protections above 
and beyond those in the contract of employment) on appropriate terms. Simon Boddie’s service agreement provides for base 
salary in lieu of notice.  Ian Mason’s service agreement provides for base salary and contractual benefits in lieu of notice.  The 
table below summarises how awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the 
final treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion:
Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting/payment Timing of vesting
Termination with ‘cause’ No bonus paid. Not applicable.
Annual bonus
Resignation No bonus is normally paid unless the 
Committee in its absolute discretion (and on a 
case-by-case basis) determines otherwise.
After the end of the financial 
year.
All other circumstances Bonuses are paid only to the extent that the 
associated objectives, as set at the beginning 
of the plan year, are met. Any such bonus 
would normally be paid on a pro-rata basis, 
taking account of the period actually worked.
After the end of the financial 
year.
DSBP
Termination with ‘cause’ DSBP awards lapse. Not applicable.
Resignation DSBP awards normally lapse unless the 
Committee in its absolute discretion (and on a 
case-by-case basis) determines otherwise.
At the normal vesting date 
unless the Committee decides 
that awards should vest at the 
cessation of employment.
Injury, retirement with the 
agreement of the Company, 
redundancy or other reason that 
the Committee determines in its 
absolute discretion (other than in 
cases of voluntary resignation or 
termination with ‘cause’)
DSBP awards are pro-rated to reflect the 
proportion of the vesting period that has 
elapsed on cessation of employment, unless 
the Committee at its discretion decides 
otherwise.
At the normal vesting date, 
unless the Committee decides 
that awards should vest 
on the date of cessation of 
employment.
Death Awards vest in full, unless the Committee at its 
discretion decides that awards should be time 
pro-rated.
As soon as possible after 
death.
Change of control Awards vest in full, unless the Committee at its 
discretion decides that awards should only vest 
in part. Awards may alternatively be exchanged 
for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, 
where appropriate.
On change of control.
Our Business
75
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting/payment Timing of vesting
LTIP
Termination with ‘cause’ LTIP awards lapse. Not applicable.
Resignation LTIP awards normally lapse, unless the 
Committee in its absolute discretion (and on a 
case-by-case basis) determines otherwise.
If applicable, at the normal 
vesting date unless the 
Committee decides that 
awards should vest on the date 
of cessation of employment, 
in which case the Committee 
may determine to what extent 
the performance condition has 
been achieved in such manner 
as it considers reasonable.
Injury, retirement with the 
agreement of the Company, 
redundancy or other reason that 
the Committee determines in 
its absolute discretion (other 
than in cases of termination with 
‘cause’)
The Committee determines whether and to 
what extent outstanding awards vest based 
on the extent to which performance conditions 
have been achieved (normally over the full 
performance period). Awards are also pro-rated 
to reflect the proportion of the performance 
period worked, unless the Committee decides 
otherwise.
At the normal vesting date 
unless the Committee decides 
that awards should vest on 
the date of termination of 
employment, in which case the 
Committee may determine to 
what extent the performance 
condition has been achieved 
in such manner as it considers 
reasonable.
Death The Committee has discretion to dis-apply 
performance conditions and waive time pro-
rating.
As soon as possible after 
death.
Change of control Awards would vest to the extent that any 
performance conditions have been satisfied. 
Awards would also be reduced pro rata to take 
into account the proportion of the performance 
period not completed, unless the Committee 
decides otherwise. Awards may alternatively 
be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the 
acquirer, where appropriate.
On change of control.
External appointments 
Executive Directors are permitted to take up one non-executive position on the board of another company, subject to the prior 
approval of the Board. The Executive Director may retain any fees payable in relation to such an appointment. Details of external 
appointments and the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Company seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies – including trade unions 
and works councils – as part of its broader employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and 
business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  The 
Committee is mindful of the increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering salaries 
for Executive Directors, but does not currently consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy and 
framework.
76
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the AGM each year, as well as guidance from 
shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy. The vast majority of shareholders continue 
to express support of remuneration arrangements at Electrocomponents.  The Committee keeps the remuneration policy 
under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Company’s long-term strategy, and aligns Executive Directors with 
shareholders’ interests. We will consult shareholders before making any significant changes to our remuneration policy.
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy
Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment providing 
for an initial three-year term. The Chairman’s letter of appointment provides a six-month notice period and the Non-Executive 
Directors a three-month notice period. In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all Directors are subject to 
re-election annually at the AGM.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s 
bonus, long-term incentive or pension plans. Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the 
table below:
Component: Fees
Objective To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre with broad commercial 
experience relevant to the Company.
Operation The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors as a whole. 
Additional fees are payable for acting as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, 
and to the Senior Independent Director.
Fee levels are reviewed every two years, with any adjustments effective 1 April. Fees are 
reviewed by taking into account external advice on best practice and fee levels at other FTSE 
250 companies of broadly similar size, sector and international scope to Electrocomponents.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Opportunity Aggregate ordinary fees for Directors are limited to £600,000 by the Company’s Articles of 
Association.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review (and for the 
following year) are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures Not applicable.
Approach to Non-Executive Director recruitment remuneration
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the policy as set out in the table above.  A 
base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for serving as a Non-Executive Director, with additional fees 
payable for acting as Chairman of the Audit or Remuneration Committees.
Our Business
77
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Annual Report on Remuneration
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The following section provides details of how our remuneration policy was implemented during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the Board. Its responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference which 
can be found on the Company’s website at www.electrocomponents.com. The task of the Committee is to consider the 
remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and other senior employees and to ensure 
that they are compensated appropriately for their contributions to the Group’s performance. The Committee also considers 
the remuneration of the Company Chairman. The Board as a whole considers and determines the remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors. No individual was present while decisions were made regarding their own remuneration. During the year 
under review, the following independent Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee:
 Rupert Soames (Chairman)
 Adrian Auer
 Paul Hollingworth
 Karen Guerra
 John Pattullo
Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members are given in their biographies on pages 42 to 44.  In addition, 
the Company Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Global HR Director were invited to attend 
Committee meetings to advise on specific questions raised by the Committee and on matters relating to the performance and 
remuneration of senior managers, other than in relation to their own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to 
the Committee.
The Committee met in full five times during the year. Attendance by individual Committee members at meetings is detailed in 
the Corporate Governance Report on page 54.
Advisers
Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’) has advised the Committee since 2001 and, following a tender process, were re-appointed by the 
Committee in 2005. The Committee reviewed the independence, cost and effectiveness of Kepler during the year and agreed 
to continue with them as their remuneration consultants. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct 
for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. In the year ended 31 
March 2014, Kepler Associates provided: 
 Advice and data in respect of the remuneration of the Executive Directors; 
 Advice regarding the setting of performance targets for the LTIP , and the data required for the measurement of those 
performance targets;
 Advice on the reward framework for senior executives below Board level; and
 Advice and guidance in respect of the new regulatory framework and reporting regulations on executive remuneration which 
came into force in October 2013. 
Kepler provides no other services to the Company or its Directors and the Committee considers it to be independent. Kepler’s 
total fees for the provision of remuneration services to the Committee during the year ended 31 March 2014 were £27 ,884 on 
the basis of time and materials.
78
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014
May July December January March
At specific meetings
 Final approval of 
Remuneration 
Report for year 
ended 31 March 
2013
 Consideration 
of level of 
LTIP award 
for Executive 
Directors
 Determination 
of annual bonus 
outcomes for 
2013
 Determination of   
vesting outcome 
of LTIP awards 
made in 2010
 Final approval of 
LTIP award level 
for Executive 
Directors
 Final approval of 
DSBP vesting
 Update on 
changes to 2014 
remuneration 
reporting 
requirements
 Results of external 
Committee 
evaluation
 Review of 
fees paid to 
consultants
 Review of CEO’s 
service contract
 Review of 
draft Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Report for year 
ended  
31 March 2014 
and compliance 
with new 
reporting 
regulations 
 Discussion 
regarding holding 
periods after LTIP 
vesting
 Discussion 
regarding 
Executive Director 
recruitment 
remuneration 
policy
 Review of 
Executive 
Directors’ 
remuneration 
structure and pay 
levels
 Review and 
setting of 
performance 
targets for the 
2015 annual bonus 
and LTIP award for 
2014
 Review of key 
design features  
for renewal of the 
LTIP for approval 
at the 2014 AGM
 Approval of terms 
of 2014 invitations 
for all employee 
share-based 
incentive plans 
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM
The results of the advisory vote on the 2013 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM are summarised below:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For (including discretionary) 376,855,306 97 .9%
Against 8,067 ,142 2.1%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 384,922,488 100.0%
Votes withheld 201,722
T otal votes (including withheld votes) 385,124,170
The Committee welcomes the strong support received from shareholders at the 2013 AGM for remuneration at 
Electrocomponents. 
Our Business
79
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Single figure for total remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
The following table provides a single figure for total remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2014 
and the prior year. The values of each element of remuneration are based on the actual value delivered, where known. The 
value of the annual bonus includes the element of bonus deferred under the DSBP . For the year ended 31 March 2013, the LTIP 
value has been restated to reflect the value of LTIP awards that vested on 30 May 2013 using a share price of 273.5p, being 
the closing price on that day, rather than the estimated value given in last year’s Report (which was based on a share price of 
252.57p, being the three-month average share price to 31 March 2013):
2014
£
2013
£
Ian Mason
Base salary 579,160 576,805
Taxable benefits
1
18,464 17 ,808
Annual bonus
2
515,664 32,144
LTIP
3
— 423,600
Pension benefit
4
173,748 173,042
Other
5
— —
T otal 1,287 ,036 1,223,399
Simon Boddie
Base salary 386,110 384,540
Taxable benefits
1
15,123 14,657
Annual bonus
2
343,779 21,429
LTIP
3
— 211,800
Pension benefit
4
167 ,958 167 ,275
Other
5
1,333 —
T otal 914,303 799,701
1. Taxable benefits consist of medical insurance, company car (or allowance), and personal fuel allowance.  The table below details benefits received in respect of 
2014:
Ian Mason Simon Boddie
Medical insurance £1,146 £1,146
Company car (or allowance) £16,118 £12,777
Fuel allowance £1,200 £1,200
2. Annual bonus comprises both the cash annual bonus for performance during the year and the face value of the deferred share element on the date of deferral. 
The deferred share element (one-third of the figures shown in the table above) is deferred for two years. See ‘ Annual Bonus in respect of 2014 performance’ on 
page 81 for further details.
3. For the year ended 31 March 2014, the LTIP value shows the value of LTIP awards made in July 2011, all of which have now lapsed based on performance. See 
the relevant sections on page 82 for further details. For the year ended 31 March 2013, the table shows the vesting date value of LTIP shares granted in June 
2010 which vested as to 55.5% on 30 May 2013 based on performance to 31 March 2013 and at a share price of 273.5p, together with dividend equivalents, paid 
in cash, of £47 ,144 (for Ian Mason) and £23,572 (for Simon Boddie).
4. During the year Ian Mason and Simon Boddie each received a cash supplement in lieu of pension which amounted to £173,748 and £167 ,958 for Ian Mason and 
Simon Boddie respectively (2013: £173,042 for Ian Mason and £167 ,275 for Simon Boddie).
5. Includes SAYE awards granted during the year. Simon Boddie was awarded 2,523 SAYE options on 2 July 2013; the value of SAYE options is the embedded gain 
at grant  (i.e the 20% discount of the share price used at grant, multiplied by 2,523).
80
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Single figure for total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors (audited)
For the year under review, the Chairman’s fee was £175,000 per annum. The Non-Executive Directors were each paid a fee 
of £45,000 per annum. In addition, Rupert Soames, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and Paul Hollingworth, as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, each received an additional fee of £10,000 per annum. 
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 
31 March 2014 and the prior year:
T otal fee
2014
£
2013
£
Peter Johnson
1
175,000 95,416
Adrian Auer
1
45,000 50,833
Karen Guerra 45,000 11,250
Paul Hollingworth 55,000 55,000
John Pattullo 45,000 11,250
Rupert Soames
1
55,000 81,250
1. During the year ended 31 March 2013, Peter Johnson, who had temporarily stepped down from his role of Chairman was paid a Non-Executive Director fee 
only from May 2012 until he resumed his role in November 2012. Rupert Soames’ and Adrian Auer’s fees were increased temporarily to £100,000 and £55,000 
per annum, respectively. This reflected their increased responsibilities (Rupert Soames as Acting Chairman and Adrian Auer as Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee) during the same period.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2014
Annual bonus in respect of 2014 performance (audited)
The performance measures attached to the 2014 annual bonus plan were sales growth (weighted 40%), PBTR (40%) and cash 
flow (20%). As in 2013, target performance was calibrated to deliver a bonus of 75% of salary for the Executive Directors, with 
bonus payments worth up to 150% of salary for achieving stretch performance targets.
Based on the Company’s performance in 2014, against targets set at the start of the year for each performance measure, the 
Committee has decided to make an annual bonus award of 89.1% of base salary to each of the Executive Directors.  Further 
details, including the targets set and performance against each of the metrics, are provided below:
Measure and weighting
Performance
level
Payout
(% of max. 
bonus)
Target
(% of budget)
Actual
performance
(% of budget)
Earned bonus
(% of max.) (% of salary)
Sales growth (40% weighting)
Threshold 8% 97% 99.1% 16.3% 24.5%
Maximum 40% 105%
PBTR (40% weighting) 
Threshold 8% 91% 102.4% 24.2% 36.4%
Maximum 40% 111%
Cash flow (20% weighting)
Threshold 0% 84% 113.9% 18.8% 28.2%
Maximum 20% 116%
T otal 59.3% 89.1%
One-third of the annual bonus award of 89.1% of base salary for each of Ian Mason and Simon Boddie, i.e. 29.7% of salary, or 
£171,888 and £114,593 for Ian Mason and Simon Boddie, respectively, will be deferred into shares under the DSBP .  This DSBP 
award will vest on the second anniversary of grant, subject, normally, to continued employment.
Our Business
81
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The table below sets out the actual bonuses paid in cash and deferred shares for each Executive Director for the year  
under review:
Annual cash bonus Deferred shares T otal
% of salary £ Value £ £
Ian Mason 59.3% 343,776 171,888 515,664
Simon Boddie 59.3% 229,186 114,593 343,779
The deferred shares have not been awarded at the date of this Report. The number of deferred shares awarded, the date of 
award and the share price used will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
2011 LTIP awards vesting
In July 2011, LTIP awards of 201,480 and 100,740 shares were granted to Ian Mason and Simon Boddie respectively. 
Vesting of these awards was based 50% on Electrocomponents’ EPS growth and 50% on Electrocomponents’ relative TSR 
outperformance of the FTSE 250 index over the three financial years ended 31 March 2014. Based on performance over this 
period, the Committee anticipates that none of this award will vest. Performance targets, and actual performance against these, 
is summarised in the table below:
Electrocomponents’ 
performance
Award vesting 
(% of LTIP award)
TSR % outperformance of FTSE 250 index
Threshold: Index TSR
Index – 22.4% 0%
Maximum: Index + 20%
Annualised three-year EPS growth
Threshold: 5% p.a.
 – 3.2% p.a. 0%
Maximum: 10% p.a.
TOTAL 0%
Scheme interests awarded in 2014 (audited)
2013 DSBP
During the year under review, the following DSBP awards were made to the Executive Directors (relating to the annual bonus 
earned for performance over the 2013 financial year):
Ian Mason Simon Boddie
Basis of award One-third of earned bonus One-third of earned bonus
Award date 21 June 2013 21 June 2013
Number of shares awarded 4,325 2,883
Award-date face value (247 .7p per 
share)
£10,713 £7 ,141
Normal vesting date 21 June 2015 21 June 2015
Performance conditions None None
82
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM 2013 LTIP
During the year under review, the following LTIP awards were awarded to the Executive Directors:
Ian Mason Simon Boddie
Basis of award 125% of base salary 90% of base salary
Award date 17 July 2013 17 July 2013
Number of shares awarded 283,235 135,954
Award-date face value (255.6p per 
share)
£723,949 £347 ,498
Normal vesting date 17 July 2016 or such earlier date as the
performance condition is determined
17 July 2016 or such earlier date as the 
performance condition is determined
Performance period 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2016 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2016
Performance conditions 3-year EPS growth – 50% of an award 
Threshold: 5% p.a. (0% of element vesting) 
Maximum: 10% p.a. (100% of element vesting)
 3-year relative TSR % outperformance of FTSE 250 Index –  
50% of an award 
Threshold: Index TSR (0% of element vesting) 
Maximum: Index + 20% (100% of element vesting)
Threshold vesting outcome 0% 0%
2013 SA YE
During the year under review, the following SAYE awards were granted to the Executive Directors:
Simon Boddie
Basis of award Fixed £ savings contract
Number of options granted 2,523
Grant date 2 July 2013
Share price used for grant 266.83p
Exercise price 214p (20% discount to grant price)
Vesting date 1 September 2016
Expiration date 28 February 2017
Performance conditions None
Threshold vesting outcome n/a
Ian Mason did not enter into a savings contract under the SAYE in the year to 31 March 2014.
Total pension entitlements (audited)
The current Executive Directors are able to participate in the defined benefits section of the Electrocomponents Group Pension 
Scheme (Scheme). However, as their pension benefits are greater than or equal to the lifetime allowance, they elected to opt 
out of the pension scheme with effect from 5 April 2012, and receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension no greater than 
the cost of pension benefits previously provided. The single cash supplement, which replaced all historic cash supplements 
and pension benefits, will be paid until the earlier of (i) the date employment with the Company terminates and (ii) the date 
the Executive Director reaches age 60 (the normal retirement age). The Committee recognises that the level of pension 
contribution is above market norms for FTSE 250 companies of similar size. However, these levels of cash supplement reflect 
legacy defined benefit arrangements from which the Executive Directors opted out. The cash supplement rates for the current 
Executive Directors are summarised in the policy table on page 69, and the cash supplement paid during the year under review 
is captured in the single figure for total remuneration on page 80.
Our Business
83
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The accrued defined benefit pensions of the Executive Directors at 31 March 2014 were as follows, including revaluation from 
the date they opted out of the Scheme:
Ian Mason: £55,568 p.a. 
Simon Boddie: £29,042 p.a.
These pensions are payable from age 60 (their normal retirement age under the Scheme). If the Directors leave service before 
age 60, they may elect to start receiving their pension at any time between age 55 and age 60, in which case the pension will 
be actuarially reduced to reflect the longer period for which it is expected to be paid.
Payments to past directors
No payments were made to past directors during the year under review.
Exit payments made in the year
No exit payments to directors were made during the year under review.
External appointments in the year
During the financial year, Simon Boddie was a Non-Executive Director of PageGroup. The fee payable for this appointment is 
£58,000 per annum. Until the end of November 2013, Ian Mason was a Non-Executive Director at Sage Group plc, for which he 
received a fee of £60,000 per annum. During the year he received £40,000 in total. Both Executive Directors are permitted to 
retain the fees relating to these appointments.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration 
The table below shows the percentage change in the CEO annual cash remuneration (comprising base salary, the value of 
taxable benefits and earned annual bonus, as disclosed in the single figure of remuneration table on page 80) from the prior 
year compared with the average percentage change for the 320 members of our Global Management Team (GMT). This group 
is considered more representative of the geographical footprint of the Company than a UK comparator group, and similarity of 
remuneration structures facilitates a more meaningful comparision than considering all employees as a whole.
CEO GMT
Year ended 31 
March 2014
£
Year ended 31 
March 2013
£
Year ended 31 
March 2012
£
% change 
2013 – 2014
% change 
2012 – 2013
% change 
2013 – 2014
% change 
2012 – 2013
Base salary 579,160 576,805 551,070 0.4% 4.7% 2.8% 3.1%
Taxable benefits 18,464 17 ,808 17 ,332 3.7% 2.7% 2.7% 3.0%
Annual bonus
1
515,664 32,144 238,593 1,504.2% -86.5% 137 .0% -39.7%
T otal 1,113,288 626,757 806,995 77 .63% -22.3% 9.0% -14.5%
1. The difference in percentage change in the CEO’s annual bonus (and total cash remuneration) compared with that of other senior employees reflects differences 
in annual bonus design: the annual bonus for the CEO is based 100% on financial performance, whereas for the GMT it comprises an element based on 
personal performance and contribution.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The graphs below show Electrocomponents’ shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends) and expenditure on total employee pay for 
the year under review and the prior year, and the percentage change year on year. 
Dividend (£ million)
+0.2%
2014
2013
0 20406080 100
£51.4m
£51.3m
T otal employee pay expenditure (£ million)
2014
2013
0 50 75 100 200 300
+2.9%
£229.5m
£236.2m
84
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Performance graph and table
The following graph shows the five-year TSR performance of the Company relative to the FTSE All Share and the FTSE 250 
Indices. The FTSE All Share is a broad equity market index of which Electrocomponents is a member, and the Company is 
measuring its TSR performance versus the FTSE 250 for the purposes of the LTIP and has therefore included this as a relevant 
index. The table below details the Group Chief Executive’s single figure of remuneration over the same period.
T otal Shareholder Return (TSR)
(Value of £100 invested on 31 March 2009)
Electrocomponents             FTSE All Share             FTSE 250  
Electrocomponents TSR 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2014
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014
n r u t e R r e d l o h e r a h S l a t o T
 h c r a M 1 3 n o d e t s e v n i 0 0 1 £ f o e u l a v ( 2009)
CEO single figure of remuneration (£000)
Year ended
 31 March 
2010
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
Year ended 
31 March 
2013
Y ear ended 
31 March 
2014
Ian Mason total remuneration £1,472 £1,862 £1,176 £1,223 £1,287
Annual bonus award (as a % of maximum opportunity) 74.1% 100.0% 28.2% 3.7% 89.1%
LTIP vesting (as a % of maximum opportunity) 21 .4% 50.0% 20.5% 55.5% 0%
Implementation of Executive Director remuneration policy for 2015
Base salary
Base salaries are reviewed taking into account individual performance and competitive practice for similar roles in the 
Company’s remuneration peer group. Salaries were reviewed in early 2014 against a remuneration comparator group comprising 
UK-based FTSE 250 companies:
 With a majority of their revenues outside the UK
 In sectors such as support services, distribution and manufacturing and other similar classifications, but not financial services
 Of similar size in terms of revenue, number of employees and market capitalisation
This review identified that the current Executive Directors’ base salaries remain above the chosen benchmark. It is the 
Committee’s policy to align Executive Director base salaries with the market over time, and therefore the Committee approved 
the following base salary increases with effect from 1 June 2014:
Executive Director
Base salary 
from 1 June 
2013
Base salary 
from 1 June 
2014
Percentage 
increase
Ian Mason £579,160 £590,000 1 .9%
Simon Boddie £386,110 £393,832 2.0%
A salary increase averaging 2% across the Group was awarded at the annual pay review, effective 1 June 2014.
Our Business
85
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Pension
For 2015, Executive Directors will continue to receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension worth 30% of salary for Ian Mason 
and 43.5% of salary for Simon Boddie.
Performance related annual bonus
The annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors will remain unchanged for the 2015 financial year. The bonus outcome for 
Executive Directors will continue to be based 40% on Group PBTR, 40% on Group sales growth and 20% on Group cash flow. 
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for a further two years under the DSBP . Annual bonus targets are 
considered to be commercially sensitive but will be disclosed retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP
The structure of LTIP awards to be made in the 2015 financial year will be unchanged from 2014. Awards will continue to vest 
50% on three-year EPS growth and three-year relative TSR percentage outperformance of the FTSE 250 index (performance 
targets remain unchanged and are as set out on page 83). Awards with face values of £579,160 and £308,888 will be granted 
to Ian Mason and Simon Boddie respectively. Details of these awards will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
SA YE
Executive Directors will be able to participate in any SAYE contract offered to all employees, on identical terms.
Implementation of Non-Executive Director remuneration policy for 2015
For the year ending 31 March 2015, Non-Executive Director fees have been increased. The Chairman will now receive £180,000 
per annum and the Non-Executive Director fee has been increased to £50,000 per annum. The Chairman of each of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees will continue to receive an additional £10,000 per annum in respect of their additional 
responsibilities.  From 1 August 2014, the Senior Independent Director will receive an additional £5,000 per annum for the 
additional responsibilities of that position.
Non-Executive Director fees will next be reviewed in March 2016.
Director shareholdings (audited)
The table below shows the shareholdings of the Executive Directors and their connected persons and whether they had met 
their respective shareholding requirements at 31 March 2014:
Shares held Options held
Owned 
outright
1 
or vested 
(A)
Performance 
tested but 
unvested 
(B)
Unvested, 
subject to 
performance  
(C)
Vested 
but not 
exercised 
(D)
Unvested, 
but not 
subject to 
performance 
(E) 
Shareholding 
guideline  
% salary
Current 
holding 
% salary
Guideline 
met?
Ian Mason 420,996 — 804,134 — 10,436 200% 196% No
Simon Boddie 267 ,313 — 403,477 — 4,059 100% 187% Yes
1. By Directors and their connected persons.
The value of the shares used to calculate whether the shareholding guideline is met is 269.68p, being the average share price 
over the three months to 31 March 2014.  Details of the scheme interests contained in columns B-E are provided in the tables 
on page 87 .
The interests of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons in the Company’s ordinary shares are 
shown below.  Up to the date of this Report, there have been no changes in the Directors’ interests.
31 March 2014 or date 
ceased to be a Director
1 April 2013 or date 
appointed as a Director
Adrian Auer 2,500 2,500
Karen Guerra 7 ,525 7 ,525
Paul Hollingworth 10,000 10,000
Peter Johnson 100,000 100,000
John Pattullo 10,000 10,000
Rupert Soames 15,024 15,024
86
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Directors’ share scheme interests (audited)
Share awards
Notes Scheme
Date of 
Award
Shares 
awarded at  
1 April 
2013
Shares 
awarded in 
2014
Vested in 
2014
Lapsed in 
2014
Shares 
awarded at  
31 March 
2014
Vesting 
date
Ian Mason 
1
LTIP 30-Jun-10
2
248,009 — 137 ,644 110,365 — 30-May-13
5-Jul-11 201,480 ——— 201,480 5-Jul-14
5
3-Jul-12 276,975 ——— 276,975 3-Jul-15
5
17-Jul-13 — 283,235 —— 283,235 17-Jul-16
5
3
DSBP 5-Jul-11
4
100,483 — 100,483 —— 5-Jul-13
3-Jul-12 38,119 ——— 38,119 3-Jul-14
21-Jun-13 — 4,325 —— 4,325 21-Jun-15
T otal 865,066 287 ,560 238,127 110,365 804,134
Simon Boddie
1
LTIP 30-Jun-10
2
124,005 — 68,822 55,183 — 30-May-13
5-Jul-11 100,740 ——— 100,740 5-Jul-14
5
3-Jul-12 138,488 ——— 138,488 3-Jul-15
5
17-Jul-13 — 135,954 —— 135,954 17-Jul-16
5
3
DSBP 5-Jul-11
4
66,989 — 66,989 —— 5-Jul-13
3-Jul-12 25,412 ——— 25,412 3-Jul-14
21-Jun-13 — 2,883 —— 2,883 21-Jun-15
T otal 455,634 138,837 135,811 55,183 403,477
1. All outstanding awards made under the LTIP are subject to the same performance conditions set out on page 83.
2.  On 30 May 2013, the Committee determined that 55.5% of the Award made under the LTIP in June 2010 should vest in accordance with the performance 
condition based on the Company’s TSR and EPS as described on page 82 of this report. The Committee was satisfied that there had been sustained 
improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance during the performance period. In addition, cash dividend entitlements of £47 ,143 and £23,572 
were paid at vesting to Ian Mason and Simon Boddie respectively.
3. Outstanding DSBP awards are subject to the terms set out on page 81 .
4.  On 5 July 2013, the Award made under the DSBP in July 2011 vested in full. There are no performance conditions but vesting is dependent, normally, on 
continuing employment with the Group. Cash dividend entitlements of £23,614 and £15,742 were paid at vesting to Ian Mason and Simon Boddie respectively.
5. The vesting date for the LTIP is the third anniversary of grant or such earlier date as the performance conditions are determined.
Share options
Scheme
Date 
of grant
Vesting 
date
Expiration 
date
Exercise 
price
Shares 
under 
option 
1 April 
2013
Granted 
in 2014
Exercised 
in 2014
Lapsed 
in 2014
Shares 
under 
option 
31 March 
2014
Ian Mason SAYE 01-Jul-09 01-Sep-14 28-Feb-15 149.00p 10,436 ——— 10,436
T otal 10,436———10,436
Simon Boddie SAYE 30-Jun-10 01-Sep-13 28-Feb-14 175.00p 3,085 — 3,085 ——
29-Jun-11 01-Sep-14 28-Feb-15 235.00p 1,536 ——— 1,536
17-Jul-13 01-Sep-16 28-Feb-17 214.00p — 2,523 —— 2,523
T otal 4,621 2,523 3,085 — 4,059
Our Business
87
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > DIRECTORS’ REPORT > ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional Information
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Company’s current Articles of Association (Articles) and 
applicable English law concerning companies, the Companies Act 2006 (Companies Act). This is a summary only and 
the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required. 
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company 
may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare 
dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the 
Board. The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the 
ﬁnancial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, 
justiﬁes such payment. The Board may withhold payment of 
all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in 
respect of the Company’s shares from a person with a 0.25% 
interest (as deﬁned in the Articles) if such a person has been 
served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with 
information concerning interest in those shares required to be 
provided under the Companies Act. 
Voting rights
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any 
class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present 
in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of 
hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present 
in person or by proxy has one vote for each share. In the case 
of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders 
a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the 
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this 
purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which 
the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of  
the shares.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by 
proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of 
any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable 
by him in respect of that share remains unpaid. In addition no 
member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with 
a notice after failure to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Act.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in 
relation to corporate members, by corporate representative. 
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms 
of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the 
holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights
Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights 
attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written 
consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in 
nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general 
meeting of the holders of those shares.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in 
any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to 
the Directors. The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or 
on behalf of the transferor and (except in the case of fully paid 
shares) by or on behalf of the transferee. Transfers of shares 
which are in uncertiﬁcated form are effected by means of the 
CREST system. 
The Directors may, in the case of shares in certiﬁcated form, 
in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, 
refuse to register any transfer of shares (not being fully paid 
shares) provided that such discretion may not be exercised in 
such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class 
from taking place on an open and proper basis. 
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or 
transfer of shares (whether fully-paid or not) in favour of more 
than four persons jointly. If the Directors refuse to register an 
allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the 
date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged 
with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice 
of the refusal. 
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors 
may determine that any class of shares may be held in 
uncertiﬁcated form and that title to such shares may be 
transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of 
any class should cease to be so held and transferred. 
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the 
Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, 
for a transfer of shares to take place.
88
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve 
in number. A Director is not required to hold any shares of the 
Company by way of qualiﬁcation. The Company may by ordinary 
resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum 
number of Directors. 
Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at 
or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the 
current calendar year shall retire by rotation. In addition, each 
Director, (other than the Chairman and any Director holding an 
executive ofﬁce) shall retire at each AGM following the ninth 
anniversary of the date on which he was elected. A retiring 
Director is eligible for re-election. 
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director (so long 
as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit 
prescribed in the Articles). Any such Director shall hold ofﬁce 
only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions 
given by special resolution, the business of the Company will 
be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of 
the Company. 
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company 
to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its 
undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue 
debentures and other securities, whether outright or as 
collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the 
Company or of any third party.
Signiﬁcant agreements: change of control
All of the Company’s share plans contain provisions relating to 
a change of control. Outstanding awards and options would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at 
that time.
Amendment of Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be 
made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
by way of special resolution.
By order of the Board
Ian Haslegrave 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
22 May 2014
Our Business
89
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of 
the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
 for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE >  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report  
and the Financial Statements
90
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM Responsibility Statement of Directors in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Ian Mason 
Group Chief Executive 
22 May 2014
Simon Boddie 
Group Finance Director 
The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking. The 
accuracy and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future ﬁnancial 
position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Electrocomponents 
plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed. These statements typically contain words such as ‘intends’, 
‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘estimates’ and words of similar import. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk 
and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. Although 
Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reﬂected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be 
given that such expectations will prove to be correct. There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control 
of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied by such forward-looking statements. Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any 
exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intention or obligation to update forward-
looking statements contained herein.
Our Business
91
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 92
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Strategy in Action
Driving performance 
in Europe through 
eCommerce
Strategy in Action
An 8% increase in eCommerce revenues in 
Continental Europe during 2014 has driven 
online business from the region’s 17 local 
language websites to nearly 70% of sales. 
eCommerce with a Human T ouch
eCommerce has transformed the way 
we do business. We have successfully 
transitioned from a catalogue-led product 
offer to an e-centric, multichannel B2B 
business model whilst retaining a 
consistent service for customers.
Providing a cost-effective entry into new 
markets, such as in Eastern Europe, 
eCommerce offers benefits of scale to 
the business. It is also a competitive 
advantage enabling us to make market 
share gains from smaller competitors. 
eCommerce is now the entry point 
for long-term customer relationships, 
with our catalogue, sales and customer 
support teams providing direction to and 
supporting our online offer.
eCommerce is also driving market-leading 
customer satisfaction. Our customers 
prefer to shop online because it provides 
superior content and value-added 
services, such as DesignSpark, Live Chat 
and eProcurement solutions for large 
customers. In fact, eProcurement sales 
growth has increased by 15% in Europe 
over the past year.
For us, eCommerce means growth in 
sales and customers, whilst reducing 
costs. We can ‘see’ and capture demand 
through the internet, and analyse it to 
tailor and target other forms of marketing 
to specific customers. We can manage 
our customer base more profitably, whilst 
more merchandise provides us with more 
opportunities to cross- and up-sell. 
eCommerce also allows us to better 
manage the customer life cycle, driving 
customer acquisition and development, 
supported by a highly skilled sales force; 
that’s what we call eCommerce with a 
Human T ouch.
See page 14 for Group 
Chief Executive’s Review
Watch the videos online 
www.electrocomponents.com Our Business
93
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 94
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is 
unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of 
Electrocomponents plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set 
out on pages 96 to 145. In our opinion:
 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 31 March 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
 the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union;  
 the Parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards; and
 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.  
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had the 
greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Inventory valuation (£286.4 million gross inventories and 
£27 .6 million provisions) 
Refer to page 60 (Audit Committee Report – Significant 
accounting issues and areas of judgement) and page 121 
(note 17 to the financial statements).
The risk – The Group holds significant quantities of a diverse 
product range for a significant period with different products 
being in different phases of their lifecycles. There is a risk 
that some of this inventory will not be sold and the Group 
performs an estimate of the value of the provision required. 
The key judgements relate to the duration of product 
lifecycles, amount of anticipated sales over this lifecycle and 
the value recoverable from any excess stock.
Our response – In this area, our audit procedures included, 
among other things, assessing the appropriateness of the 
provisioning policy applied by management and challenging 
the key assumptions in the calculation including inventory 
lifecycles, expected future sales levels and recoverable value, 
corroborating assumptions against external evidence where 
relevant. We utilised or own modelling specialists to recalculate 
the provision and assess the methodology, and corroborated 
the source data used against the accounting records.
T axation (£29.6 million income statement charge)
Refer to page 61 (Audit Committee Report – Significant 
accounting issues and areas of judgement) and page 114  
(note 9 to the consolidated financial statements).
The risk – Accruals for tax contingencies require the Directors 
to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues 
and exposures. This is one of the key judgemental areas 
that our audit is focused on due to the Group operating in 
a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer 
pricing regulations and other international tax legislation and 
the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the relevant 
authorities.
Our response – In this area our audit procedures included, 
among others, the use of our own international and local 
tax specialists to assess the Group’s tax positions, its 
correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and to 
analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine 
tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of 
the application of the international and local legislation by the 
relevant authorities and courts. We have also considered the 
adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of tax and 
uncertain tax positions.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of 
the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £6.0 million. This has been determined with 
reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation (of 
which it represents 5.9%), which we consider to be one of 
the principal considerations for members of the Company in 
assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all 
corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified 
through our audit with a value in excess of £0.3 million, in 
addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold 
that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by 
component auditors at the key reporting components in 
the following countries: United Kingdom (1 component), 
Continental Europe (8 components), North America (1 
component) and Asia Pacific (9 components). In addition, 
specified audit procedures were performed by component 
auditors in Japan. These Group procedures covered 98% of 
total Group revenue; 99% of Group profit before taxation; and 
99% of total Group assets. The segment disclosures in note 3 
set out the individual significance of specific regions.
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of 
Electrocomponents plc only Our Business
95
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the 
key reporting components of the Group were all performed 
to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit 
team. These materiality levels were set individually for each 
component and ranged from £10,000 to £4.0 million. 
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in 
these locations. These instructions covered the significant 
audit areas that should be covered by these audits (which 
included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed 
above) and set out the information required to be reported 
back to the Group audit team. The Group audit team is also 
the auditor of the UK component. Telephone meetings were 
held with the auditors in North America, France, Germany 
and Italy, and where necessary with the other components’ 
auditors.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:  
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
 the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and  
 the information given in the Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages 48 to 57 with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems in relation 
to financial reporting processes and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements.  
5.  We have nothing to report in respect of the 
matters on which we are required to report by 
exception  
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you 
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have identified other information in the annual report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, 
or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
 the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:  
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or  
 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Company. 
 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
 the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 55, in relation to 
going concern; and   
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 
52 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.  
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 90, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  A description 
of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.
org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely 
to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to 
important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/
uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this 
report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Paul Sawdon (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL 
22 May 2014 96
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
as restated* 
£m
Revenue 2,3 1,273.1 1,235.6
Cost of sales (689.2) (667 .2)
Gross profit 583.9 568.4
Distribution and marketing expenses (466.1) (466.4)
Administrative expenses (11.7) (9.7)
Operating profit 106.1 92.3
Financial income 2 2.5 2.8
Financial expense 2 (7 .5) (8.4)
Profit before tax 2,3,4 101.1 86.7
Income tax expense 9 (29.6) (27 .3)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company 71.5 59.4
Earnings per share
Basic 11 16.3p 13.6p
Diluted 11 16.2p 13.5p
Dividends
Amounts recognised in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 10 6.75p 6.75p
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 10 5.0p 5.0p
11.75p 11 .75p
A final dividend of 6.75p per share relating to the year has been proposed since the year end.
The notes on pages 101 to 136 form part of these Group accounts.
Headline profit before tax
Profit before tax 101.1 86.7
Reorganisation costs 5 — 7.4
101.1 94.1
Headline earnings per share 
Basic 11 16.3p 14.9p
Diluted 11 16.2p 14.8p
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102.
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2014 Our Business
97
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
as restated* 
£m
Profit for the year 71.5 59.4
Other comprehensive income
Items that are not reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Remeasurement of pension deficit 8 (20.2) (21 .5)
Movement in unrecognised pension surplus — 11 .9
Taxation relating to remeasurement of pension deficit 3.5 1.7
Items that are reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Foreign exchange translation differences (22.4) 11 .5
Net gain (loss) on cash flow hedges 1.7 (0.7)
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income (0.7) 1.4
Other comprehensive (expense) income for the year (38.1) 4.3
T otal comprehensive income for the year 33.4 63.7
*Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102.
The notes on pages 101 to 136 form part of these Group accounts. 98
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > GROUP BALANCE SHEET
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 219.8 223.5
Property, plant and equipment 13 104.6 112.1
Investments 15 0.4 0.6
Other receivables 18 5.3 7.1
Other financial assets 21 3.7 11 .8
Deferred tax assets 22 8.9 6.4
342.7 361 .5
Current assets
Inventories 17 258.8 261 .9
Trade and other receivables 18 214.8 221 .1
Income tax receivables 8.3 5.9
Cash and cash equivalents 26 0.7 9.3
482.6 498.2
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (185.4) (194.8)
Provisions and other liabilities 5 — (0.6)
Loans and borrowings 20 (15.8) (10.7)
Other financial liabilties 20 (0.7) (1 .4)
Income tax liabilities (15.5) (13.9)
(217 .4) (221 .4)
Net current assets 265.2 276.8
T otal assets less current liabilities 607 .9 638.3
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 19 (11.8) (11 .8)
Retirement benefit obligations 8 (40.9) (19.0)
Loans and borrowings 20 (131.4) (168.0)
Other financial liabilities 20 (0.1) (0.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (59.4) (59.2)
(243.6) (258.7)
Net assets 364.3 379.6
Equity
Called-up share capital 25 44.0 43.8
Share premium account 41.5 40.3
Retained earnings 268.2 263.9
Cumulative translation reserve 10.4 32.8
Other reserves 0.2 (1 .2)
Equity attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company 364.3 379.6
These Group accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Boddie 
Group Finance Director
The notes on pages 101 to 136 form part of these Group accounts.
Group Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2014
Company number: 647788 Our Business
99
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Group Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2014
2014 
£m
2013 
as restated*
 £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 2,3 101.1 86.7
Depreciation and other amortisation 28.1 25.9
Loss of disposal of non-current assets 1.2 —
Equity-settled transactions 1.5 2.0
Finance income and expense 5.0 5.6
Non-cash movement on investment in associate 0.2 —
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital, interest and taxes 137 .1 120.2
(Increase) decrease in inventories (9.8) 1.4
(Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables (1.1) 3.0
Decrease in trade and other payables (2.8) (17 .3)
Increase in provisions 5 (0.6) 0.6
Cash generated from operations 122.8 107 .9
Interest received 2.5 2.8
Interest paid (7 .5) (8.4)
Income tax paid (24.5) (25.6)
Net cash from operating activities 93.3 76.7
Cash flows from investing activities
Capital expenditure (35.7) (28.7)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 1.3
Net cash used in investing activities (35.6) (27 .4)
Free cash flow 57 .7 49.3
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 1.4 0.6
Purchase of own shares (0.6) (0.5)
Loans repaid (23.3) (18.2)
Dividends from vested share options — (0.7)
Equity dividends paid 10 (51.4) (51 .3)
Net cash used in financing activities (73.9) (70.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (16.2) (20.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (1.4) 18.6
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation on cash 2.5 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 26 (15.1) (1 .4)
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102.
The notes on pages 101 to 136 form part of these Group accounts.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Headline free cash flow
Free cash flow 57 .7 49.3
Reorganisation costs 5 0.6 6.8
58.3 56.1 100
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Other Reserves
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Own  
shares 
held  
£m
Cumulative 
translation 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
T otal  
£m
At 1 April 2013 43.8 40.3 (0.1) (1.1) 32.8 263.9 379.6
Profit for the year — — — — — 71.5 71.5
Foreign exchange translation differences — — — — (22.4) — (22.4)
Remeasurement of pension deficit — — — — — (20.2) (20.2)
Net gain on cash flow hedges (see note 21) — — 1.7 — — — 1.7
Taxation relating to components of other 
comprehensive income — — (0.7) — — 3.5 2.8
T otal comprehensive income — — 1.0 — (22.4) 54.8 33.4
Equity-settled transactions — — — — — 1.5 1.5
Dividends paid — — — — — (51.4) (51.4)
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 0.2 1.2 — 1.0 — (1.1) 1.3
Own shares acquired — — — (0.6) — — (0.6)
Related tax movements — — — — — 0.5 0.5
At 31 March 2014 44.0 41.5 0.9 (0.7) 10.4 268.2 364.3
Other
Share 
capital  
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Own 
shares 
held  
£m
Cumulative 
translation 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
as restated*
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 April 2012 43.7 39.8 0.2 (1 .9) 20.3 263.9 366.0
Profit for the year     — — — — — 59.4 59.4
Foreign exchange translation differences — — — — 11 .5 — 11 .5
Remeasurement of pension deficit — — — — — (21 .5) (21 .5)
Movement in unrecognised pension surplus — — — — — 11 .9 11 .9
Net loss on cash flow hedges (see note 21) — — (0.7) — — — (0.7)
Taxation relating to components of other 
comprehensive income — — 0.4 — 1 .0 1 .7 3.1
Total comprehensive income — — (0.3) — 12.5 51 .5 63.7
Equity-settled transactions — — — — — 2.0 2.0
Dividends paid — — — — — (51 .3) (51 .3)
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 0.1 0.5 — 1.3 — (1 .7) 0.2
Own shares acquired — — — (0.5) — — (0.5)
Related tax movements — — — — — (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 March 2013 43.8 40.3 (0.1) (1 .1) 32.8 263.9 379.6
*Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102.
The notes on pages 101 to 136 form part of these Group accounts.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 March 2014 Our Business
101
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts
For the year ended 31 March 2014
1 Basis of preparation
Basis of consolidation
Electrocomponents plc (the ‘Company’) is a company 
domiciled in England. The Group Accounts for the year ended 
31 March 2014 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the ‘Group’) and the Group’s 
interest in a jointly controlled entity. Subsidiaries are entities 
controlled by the Company. All significant subsidiary accounts 
are made up to 31 March and are included in the Group 
Accounts. Further to the IAS Regulation (EC 1606/2002) the 
Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the EU (adopted IFRS). The Company Accounts continue 
to be prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) and details of the Company 
Accounts, notes to the accounts and principal accounting 
policies are set out on pages 138 to 139.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on  
22 May 2014.
Basis of preparation
The accounts are presented in £ Sterling and rounded to  
£0.1 million.
They are prepared on a going concern basis, (as referred to in 
the Directors’ Report on page 55), and on the historical cost 
basis except certain financial instruments detailed below.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS 
requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and 
expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience and various other factors 
believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the 
results of which form the basis of making the judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
Estimates and judgements
The preparation of accounts requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities, income and expense. Actual results may 
differ from these estimates. 
The significant judgements made in the accounts for the year 
ended 31 March 2014 were in relation to pensions (note 8), 
taxation (note 9), goodwill (note 12) and inventories (note 17). 
Further details on the application of these judgements can be 
found in the relevant notes.
Statement of compliance
The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted for use by the EU.
T ransactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or 
income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, 
are eliminated in preparing Group Accounts. Unrealised gains 
arising from transactions with the jointly controlled entity 
are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the 
entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as 
unrealised gains.
Foreign currency
Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, 
are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations 
are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate 
approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates 
of the transactions.
Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign 
operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly 
to equity. They are released into the income statement upon 
disposal.
The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation 
differences prior to the date of transition (1 April 2004) do 
not need to be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed 
cumulative translation differences at this date can be set to 
£nil. Thus, any cumulative translation differences arising prior 
to the date of transition are excluded from any future profit 
or loss on disposal of any entities. The Group adopted this 
exemption.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance 
sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at 
that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation 
are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at 
fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates the fair value was determined. 102
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
1 Basis of preparation continued
Changes in accounting policies
The following standards and interpretations have been 
enacted, and have an impact on these accounts:
IAS 19 (revised 2011) Employee Benefits
The Group recognises all costs relating to the pension 
scheme within distribution and marketing costs in the income 
statement.
With effect from 1 April 2013, the Group has adopted the 
following new standard and amendment to an existing 
standard, which has been applied retrospectively. IAS 19 
(revised 2011) Employee Benefits, replaces interest cost and 
expected return on plan assets with a net pension cost on the 
pension deficit.
The defined benefit pension cost is calculated using the rate 
currently used to discount defined benefit pension liabilities. 
The discount rate is lower than the expected return on plan 
assets, increasing operating costs in the income statement 
and correspondingly reducing remeasurements recognised in 
other comprehensive income.
For the year to 31 March 2013, the impact has been to 
increase the net pension cost by £4.6 million, to reduce 
profit before tax by £4.6 million and reduce profit after tax 
by £3.5 million. This has resulted in a reduction in basic EPS 
of 0.8p. The actuarial loss on pension schemes has been 
reduced by £4.6 million and the income tax credit on other 
comprehensive income has been reduced by £1 .1 million. The 
net pension deficit is unchanged. For the year to 31 March 
2014, the impact has been to increase the net pension cost 
by £4.4 million, to reduce profit before tax by £4.4 million and 
profit after tax by £3.5 million. This has resulted in a reduction 
in basic EPS of 0.8p.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
The Group has also adopted the amendment to IAS1 
Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income, which 
is effective for the first time in the current financial year. The 
adoption of the amendment has no impact on the Group’s 
consolidated results of financial position.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
The Group has also adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
which is effective for the first time in the current financial year. 
IFRS 13 specifically requires additional disclosures for financial 
instruments which the Group has provided in note 21 . The 
change has no impact on the measurements of the Group’s 
assets and liabilities.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
The Group has also adopted the changes to IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for the first time 
in the current financial year. IFRS 7 specifically requires 
additional disclosures in relation to offsetting cash pooling 
arrangements which the Group has provided in note 21 . The 
change has no impact on the measurements of the Group’s 
assets and liabilities.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued 
but not yet applied:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
This standard was originally issued in November 2009 to 
review and replace IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement’. In October 2010 the IASB issued an 
amended version. The standard will be applicable for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The effect on the 
Group is still being evaluated.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 
Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of 
Interests in Other Entities
These standards were endorsed in December 2012 and will 
be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. 
These will replace the existing accounting standards for 
subsidiaries and joint ventures. This will not affect the reported 
results or net assets of the Group.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, 
amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not 
yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial 
statements.
2 Analysis of income and expenditure
Adjusted measures
Profit measures such as operating profit, profit before tax 
and earnings per share are also presented as being headline 
results before reorganisation items. Similarly a cash flow term, 
free cash flow, representing the Group’s cash flow before 
financing activities is also disclosed.  
These measures are used by the Group for internal reporting 
purposes and employee incentive arrangements. The terms 
‘reorganisation’, ‘headline’ and ‘free cash flow’ are not defined 
terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similar 
measures disclosed by other companies. Likewise, these 
measures are not a substitute for GAAP measures of profit or 
cash flow.
Revenue  
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income 
statement on dispatch when the significant risks and rewards 
of ownership have been transferred. Revenue represents the 
sale of goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes 
and volume discounts. Freight recharged to customers is 
included within revenue.  Our Business
103
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
2 Analysis of income and expenditure continued
Customer loyalty schemes  
The cost of loyalty schemes is treated as a deduction from 
sales and part of the fair value of the consideration received 
is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that 
the awards are redeemed. The fair value of the points awarded 
is determined with reference to the fair value to the customer 
and takes into account factors such as the redemption rate.
Operating expense classification  
Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to 
customers.  
Distribution and marketing expenses within contribution 
comprise local costs relating to the selling, marketing and 
distribution of the Group’s products, and are attributable to the 
region to which they relate.  
Distribution and marketing expenses within Process costs 
principally comprise our teams that manage Groupwide 
Marketing, Offer and IT activities. These Processes have 
responsibility for the identification, introduction and sourcing 
of the Group’s products, managing supplier relationships, 
developing the Group’s global marketing strategy and its 
implementation, managing the Group’s stock and overseeing 
the Group’s worldwide IT infrastructure.
Administration expenses comprise Group Finance, Legal and 
Group Human Resources Process expenses, together with 
the expenses of the Group Board.
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings 
calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest 
receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on both foreign 
exchange hedging instruments that are recognised in the 
income statement.  
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as 
it accrues using the effective interest method. The interest 
expenses component of finance lease payments is recognised 
in the income statement using the effective interest rate 
method.  
Borrowing costs  
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement as 
incurred. Other interest payable includes interest charges on 
the unhedged portion of the private placement loan notes.
This analysis reconciles the Income Statement presentation to the segmental reporting shown in note 3.
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
Revenue 1,273.1 1,235.6
Cost of sales (689.2) (667 .2)
Distribution and marketing expenses within contribution (326.0) (327 .4)
Headline contribution before Process costs 257 .9 241 .0
Distribution and marketing expenses within Process costs (140.1) (131 .6)
Administrative expenses within Process costs (11.7) (9.7)
Process costs (151.8) (141 .3)
Headline operating profit 106.1 99.7
Bank interest receivable 2.5 2.8
Bank interest payable (2.9) (3.8)
Private placement note interest payable (4.6) (4.6)
Net financial expense (5.0) (5.6)
Headline profit before tax 101.1 94.1
Reorganisation costs — (7 .4)
Profit before tax 101.1 86.7
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102 104
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
3 Segmental reporting
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, Group management has identified its operating segments.  The performance 
of these operating segments is reviewed, on a monthly basis, by the Group Executive Committee.
These operating segments are: the UK, Continental Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.  The UK comprises operations in 
the UK and exports to distributors where the Group does not have a local operating company.  Continental Europe comprises 
operations in France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, Switzerland, the 
Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.  North America comprises operations in the United States of 
America and Canada.  Asia Pacific comprises operations in Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, 
Thailand, Hong Kong, Taiwan, People’s Republic of China, South Korea, Chile and South Africa.
Each reporting segment derives its revenue from the high service level distribution of semi-conductors, interconnect, passives 
and electromechanical products, automation and control and other maintenance products.     
Intersegment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis, comprising sales of product at cost and a handling charge included 
within distribution and marketing expenses. 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Revenue from external customers
UK 374.3 375.1
Continental Europe 460.6 426.2
North America 281.3 268.6
Asia Pacific 156.9 165.7
1,273.1 1,235.6
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
Contribution
UK 107 .5 103.2
Continental Europe 99.4 90.9
North America 39.1 34.9
Asia Pacific 11.9 12.0
257 .9 241 .0
Reconciliation of headline contribution to profit before tax
Headline contribution 257 .9 241 .0
Group Process costs (151.8) (141 .3)
Reorganisation costs — (7 .4)
Net financial expense (5.0) (5.6)
Profit before tax 101.1 86.7
*  Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102 Our Business
105
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
3 Segmental reporting continued
Net financial expenses, one-off costs and income tax are not included or reviewed as a measure of performance of a reportable 
segment, but as total costs to the Group. Therefore no segmental information has been provided. 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Capital expenditure
UK 32.1 24.2
Continental Europe 1.7 1.2
North America 2.1 2.1
Asia Pacific 2.3 1.2
38.2 28.7
2014
£m
2013
£m
Depreciation and amortisation
UK 3.4 3.4
Continental Europe 1.6 1.6
North America 3.0 3.2
Asia Pacific 0.7 0.7
Process costs 19.4 17 .0
28.1 25.9
The intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the Group are reported within the geographic region to which they 
relate. The depreciation and amortisation of assets are expensed through the geography if they relate to a cost that is incurred 
by an Operating Company or through Process costs if they relate to costs incurred by a Group Process.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 the Group has changed the way in which it manages and reviews revenue by product 
category. The Group’s growth strategy is focussed on products which it will be Famous For, which comprise semiconductors, 
interconnect, passives and electromechanical and automation and control. All other products are classified as Other 
Maintenance and are managed separately. The prior year comparative data has been restated using the same methodology.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Famous For products 696.1 664.1
Other Maintenance products 577 .0 571 .5
1,273.1 1,235.6 106
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
4 Profit before tax
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit before tax is stated after charging (crediting):
Fees payable to the company's auditors for the audit of the Parent Company and Group accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the company's auditors and its associates for other services:
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
The audit of the company's subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6
Other services relating to taxation 0.3 0.3
Depreciation 10.9 12.2
Amortisation of intangibles 17 .2 13.7
Amortisation of government grants (0.2) (0.2)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.1
Hire of plant and machinery 7.6 7.5
5 Reorganisation costs
Reorganisation costs arising during the period are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Redundancy and associated costs — 7.4
— 7.4
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group undertook a significant restructuring of the business from a geographically-
based operating model to a functionally-based global operating model. The costs incurred in relation to this restructuring 
activity included redundancy and associated consultancy costs. £6.8 million of the costs were paid in the year ended 31 March 
2013, with the remaining balance of £0.6 million held in provisions due within one year at the year end. At 31 March 2014, the 
provision has been utilised in full and no further liabilities are expected.
6 Employees
Numbers employed 2014 2013
The average number of employees during the year was:
Management and administration 399 357
Distribution and marketing 5,813 5,950
6,212 6,307
Aggregate employment costs
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
Wages and salaries 192.2 189.0
Social security costs 22.2 21 .0
Share based payments 2.6 2.1
Pension costs 19.2 17 .3
236.2 229.4
*  Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102
The remuneration of individual directors is detailed on pages 80 and 81 Our Business
107
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
6 Employees continued
Directors’ emoluments
Aggregate emoluments
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Highest 
paid 
director
Other 
directors
Highest paid 
director
Other 
directors
Aggregate emoluments 941.4 630.4 616.1 718.4
Deferred share plans 171.9 114.6 10.7 7 .1
Cash supplement in lieu of pension 173.7 168.0 173.0 167 .3
Gains realised on exercise of share options — 2.8 ——
1,287 .0 915.8 799.8 892.8
Number of directors 2014 2013
Exercising share options 2 2
Receiving shares as part of long term incentive schemes 2 2
Further information is available on directors’ remuneration in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 87 .
7 Share-based payments
Employee benefits
Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest of which are the Save As You Earn Scheme (SAYE), the 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP). Details of these are provided below.
Equity-settled share-based schemes are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value is expensed with a 
corresponding increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the period during which employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options. The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model. The income statement charge is 
then adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market performance related criteria.
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. The Group recognises a liability at the balance 
sheet date based on these fair values, taking into account the estimated number of options that will actually vest and the relative 
completion of the vesting period. Changes in the value of this liability are recognised in the income statement for the year. 
Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses include the cost of the share-based payment scheme.
Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer the schemes, are shown within reserves.
The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, is applied only to awards made after  
7 November 2002.
The total charge included in the Income Statement in the year was £2.6 million (2013: £2.1million). Of the total charge  
£1 .5 million (2013: £2.0million) related to equity-settled share schemes and £1 .1 million (2013: £0.1million) related to cash-settled 
share schemes. 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP)
Under the Company’s DSBP , conditional awards of shares are made to plan participants to the value of 50% of their cash bonus. 
The award vests after two years, normally subject to the continued employment of the participant within the Group. There are 
no other performance conditions. A cash payment equivalent to the dividends that would have accrued on the shares will be 
made to the participants on vesting. 
During the year a total of 17 ,665 shares (2013: 147 ,511) and no share equivalent awards paid in cash (2013: 13,750) were 
conditionally awarded to the scheme’s participants.
Deferred shares relating to the bonus awards to senior managers for the year ended 31 March 2014 will be awarded in June 2014.
Details of conditional awards of shares and cash entitlements outstanding as at 31 March 2014 are set out below:
Number of shares
2014 2013
Shares 165,176 519,139
Share equivalent awards to be paid in cash 3,413 41,887
168,589 561,026 108
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
7 Share-based payments continued
Long T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Under the Group’s LTIP conditional awards of shares are made to the plan participants.  At the vesting date the share award 
will either vest, in full or in part, or lapse. The awards include a right to receive dividend equivalents on vesting. The terms and 
conditions of the LTIP are such that the vesting conditions are based on both the performance of the Group versus the FTSE 
250 and growth in earnings per share over the life of the scheme.
The fair value LTIP options was calculated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo model based on the assumptions below.
LTIP
2013
LTIP
2012
LTIP
2011
LTIP
2010
Options granted 1,068,944 1,606,980 1,495,629 1,693,536
Fair value at grant date 108.0p 105.0p 144.0p 117 .1p
Assumptions used
Share price 256p 226p 274p 222p
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil Nil
Expected volatility 32.0% 32.1% 34.6% 38.3%
Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 5.09% 5.10% 7 .30% 8.90%
Risk free interest rate 0.58% 0.20% 1 .80% 4.14%
Volatility was estimated based on the historical volatility of the shares over a three year period up to the date of grant.
Save As Y ou Earn Schemes (SAYE) 
The SAYE schemes are available to the majority of employees of the Group. The option price is based on the average market 
price of the Company’s shares over the three days prior to the offer, discounted by 20%. The option exercise conditions are 
the employees’ continued employment for a three year period and the maintenance of employees’ regular monthly savings. 
Failure of either of these conditions is normally deemed a forfeiture of the option. At the end of the period the employee has 
six months to either purchase the shares at the agreed price or withdraw their savings with the accrued interest. There are no 
market conditions to the vesting of the options.
SAYE
3 yr
2013
SAYE
5 yr
2013
SAYE
3 yr
2012
SAYE
5 yr
2012
SAYE
3 yr
2011
SAYE
5 yr
2011
SAYE
3 yr
2010
SAYE
5 yr
2010
SAYE
5 yr
2009
Options granted 622,275 265,910 1,223,209 466,184 660,883 299,559 595,181 370,029 249,009
Fair value at grant date 52.0p 47 .3p 40.2p 37 .1p 47 .5p 45.0p 57 .6p 52.5p 19.6p
Assumptions used
Share price 256p 256p 201p 201p 269p 269p 217p 217p 141p
Exercise price 214p 214p 164p 164p 235p 235p 175p 175p 149p
Expected volatility 32.0% 36.4% 32.1% 36.1% 34.6% 33.1% 38.3% 32.9% 32.4%
Expected option life 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years 5 years
Expected dividend yield 5.00% 5.00% 5.50% 5.50% 4.30% 4.30% 6.20% 6.20% 7 .80%
Risk free interest rate 0.58% 0.40% 0.16% 0.40% 1 .40% 2.16% 4.27% 4.27% 4.20%
Volatility was estimated based on the historical volatility of the shares over a 3 or 5 year period, as appropriate, up to the date of 
grant. Our Business
109
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
7 Share-based payments continued
Number and weighted average exercise price of share options (equity and cash settled)
In thousands of options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
2014
Number of
options
2014
Weighted
average
exercise
price
2013
Number of
options
2013
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 71p 10,561 66p 9,124
Forfeited during the year 182p (105) 187p (73)
Lapsed during the year 49p (1,182) 106p (1,721)
Exercised during the year 53p (2,841) 43p (1,637)
Granted during the year 107p 2,612 86p 4,868
Outstanding at the end of the year 80p 9,045 71p 10,561
Exercisable at the end of the year n/a — 241p 1
The options outstanding at 31 March 2014 have an exercise price in the range 0p to 235p and a weighted average contractual 
life of 3.2 years. 
In thousands of options 2014 2013
Option prices
£nil–£1 .00 4,744 6,159
£1 .00–£2.00 2,540 3,783
£2.00–£3.00 1,761 619
9,045 10,561
8 Pension schemes
Employee benefits
Pension costs
In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for eligible 
employees who joined on or before 1 April 2003. The scheme is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are 
independent of the Group’s finances. In addition there are defined benefit pension schemes in Germany and the Republic of 
Ireland.
For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2003 the Group provides a defined contribution pension scheme. There are also 
defined contribution schemes in Australia, North America, Germany and the Republic of Ireland, and government schemes in 
France, Italy, Scandinavia and North Asia. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an 
expense in the income statement as incurred.
The cost of the defined benefit scheme charged to the income statement comprises: service cost, net interest cost and 
administrative expenses. The Group has adopted the amendment to IAS 19R, which requires actuarial gains and losses to be 
recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income immediately.
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high 
quality corporate bonds. Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The funding of the UK defined benefit scheme is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. Members 
are in in the process of making decisions in respect of their future pension provision. The triennial actuarial valuation of the UK 
defined benefit pension scheme is currently ongoing and is due to complete in summer 2014. The net UK pension costs for the 
year ended 31 March 2014 amounted to £7 .2 million (2013: £6.0 million as restated). The contributions paid by the Group to the 
defined contribution section of the scheme amounted to £5.3 million (2013: £4.7 million).
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity, interest rate, inflation and investment risks. 
For the UK scheme, following consultation with the Group, the Trustees have adopted an investment policy to mitigate some 
of these risks. In particular, the scheme holds leveraged matching funds which offset some interest and inflation rate risks in 
respect of pensioner liabilities. 110
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
8 Pension schemes continued
The rules of the UK Electrocomponents Group Pension scheme give the Trustee powers to wind up the scheme, which it may 
exercise if the Trustee is aware that the assets of the scheme are insufficient to meet its liabilities. Although the scheme is 
currently in deficit on a statutory funding basis, the Trustee and the Company have agreed a plan to eliminate the deficit over 
time and the Trustee has confirmed as at 8 May 2014 that it has no current intention of exercising its power to wind up the 
scheme.
The costs of the defined benefit pension scheme in Germany and the Republic of Ireland were £0.2 million (2013: £0.4 million). 
The costs of the defined contribution schemes in Australia, North America, Germany and the Republic of Ireland were £2.4 
million (2013: £2.2 million), and those via government schemes in France, Italy, Scandinavia and North Asia were £4.1 million 
(2013: £4.1million).
The Group expects to pay £4.8 million to its UK defined benefit pension scheme in 2014/15.
The assumptions used in the valuations of the liabilities of the Group’s schemes were:
2014
UK
2014
Germany
2014
Republic
of Ireland
2013
UK
2013
Germany
2013
Republic
of Ireland
Discount rate 4.50% 3.50% 3.50% 4.40% 4.00% 4.00%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.55% 2.50% n/a 2.55% 2.50% 2.00%
Rate of RPI price inflation 3.30% 2.00% 2.00% 3.30% 2.00% 2.00%
Rate of CPI price inflation 2.50% 2.00% 2.00% 2.50% 2.00% 2.00%
Rate of pension increases
 RPI inflation capped at 5% p.a 3.20% n/a n/a 3.20% n/a n/a
 RPI inflation capped at 2.5% p.a 2.20% n/a n/a 2.20% n/a n/a
The assumption on the rate of increase of pensionable salaries in the UK scheme has been restricted. This is due to the 
introduction of salary capping entitlement arrangements with respect to the defined benefit pension scheme in June 2008.
Based upon the demographics of scheme members, the weighted average life expectancy assumptions used to determine 
benefit obligations were:
2014
UK
Y ears
2014
Germany
Y ears
2014
Republic
of Ireland
Y ears
2013
UK
Years
2013
Germany
Years
2013
Republic
of Ireland
Years
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) – male 22.3 19.2 22.7 21 .3 18.7 22.5
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) – female 24.0 23.3 24.0 23.3 22.8 23.9
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at aged 65) – male 23.7 19.3 25.6 23.5 22.0 25.5
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at aged 65) – female 26.2 24.5 26.5 25.9 25.9 26.4 Our Business
111
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
8 Pension schemes continued
The net costs (income) recognised in the Income Statement were:
2014
UK
£m
2014
Germany
£m
2014
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2014
T otal
£m
2013
as
 restated*
UK
£m
2013
as 
restated*
Germany
£m
2013
as
 restated*
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2013
as 
restated*
Total
£m
Current service cost 6.2 — 0.1 6.3 5.5 — 0.1 5.6
Interest expense on DBO 17 .2 0.1 0.2 17 .5 16.5 0.3 0.2 17 .0
Interest income on plan assets (16.8) — (0.2) (17 .0) (17 .2) — (0.2) (17 .4)
Interest expense on effect 
of asset ceiling and onerous 
liability — — — — 0.6 — — 0.6
Administrative expenses 0.6 — — 0.6 0.6 — — 0.6
Total Income Statement charge 7 .2 0.1 0.1 7 .4 6.0 0.3 0.1 6.4
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102.
Of the net cost for the year, a charge of £0.2 million (2013: £0.3 million) has been included in administrative expenses and a 
charge of £7 .2 million (2013: £6.1 million) in distribution and marketing expenses.
The actual gain on scheme assets was: UK £6.8 million (2013: £43.4 million), Germany £nil (2013: £nil) and the Republic of 
Ireland £0.6 million (2013: £0.4 million).
The valuation of the assets of the schemes as at 31 March were:
2014
UK
£m
2014
Germany
£m
2014
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2013
UK
£m
2013
Germany
£m
2013
Republic
of Ireland
£m
Equities 98.7 n/a 3.0 95.7 n/a 2.4
Corporate bonds 22.9 n/a 1.5 23.1 n/a 1 .4
Government bonds 53.1 n/a n/a 44.1 n/a n/a
Diversified growth funds 164.1 n/a n/a 158.7 n/a n/a
Credit funds 15.8 n/a n/a 14.6 n/a n/a
Matching plus funds 29.3 n/a n/a 47 .3 n/a n/a
Cash 1.0 n/a n/a 0.8 n/a n/a
Other — n/a 0.1 n/a n/a 0.1
Total market value of scheme assets 384.9 — 4.6 384.3 — 3.9
No amount is included in the market value of assets relating to either financial instruments or property occupied by the Group.
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension 
schemes were:
2014
UK
£m
2014
Germany
£m
2014
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2014
T otal
£m
2013
UK
£m
2013
Germany
£m
2013
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2013
Total
£m
Total market value of assets 384.9 — 4.6 389.5 384.3 — 3.9 388.2
Present value of scheme 
liabilities (418.6) (6.2) (5.6) (430.4) (396.7) (5.7) (4.8) (407 .2)
Schemes' surplus (deficit) (33.7) (6.2) (1.0) (40.9) (12.4) (5.7) (0.9) (19.0) 112
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
8 Pension schemes continued
The movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current period was:
2014
UK
£m
2014
Germany
£m
2014
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2014
T otal
£m
2013
as 
restated*
UK
£m
2013
as 
restated*
Germany
£m
2013
as
 restated*
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2013
as
 restated*
Total
£m
Present value of the defined 
benefit obligations at the 
beginning of the year 396.7 5.7 4.8 407 .2 335.6 5.8 5.1 346.5
Movement in year
Current service cost 6.2 — 0.1 6.3 5.5 — 0.1 5.6
Interest expense 17 .2 0.1 0.2 17 .5 16.5 0.3 0.2 17 .0
Insurance premiums for risk 
benefits (0.3) — — (0.3) — — — —
Effect of changes in 
demographic assumptions 6.2 — — 6.2 — — — —
Effect of changes in financial 
assumptions (8.0) 0.5 0.6 (6.9) 48.9 (0.3) (0.7) 47 .9
Effect of experience 
adjustments 10.7 — — 10.7 — — — —
Benefits paid (10.1) (0.2) (0.1) (10.4) (9.8) (0.1) — (9.9)
Exchange differences — 0.1 — 0.1 — — 0.1 0.1
Present value of the defined 
benefit obligations at the end 
of the year 418.6 6.2 5.6 430.4 396.7 5.7 4.8 407 .2
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102 Our Business
113
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
8 Pension schemes continued
The movement in present value of the fair value of scheme assets in the current period was:
2014
UK
£m
2014
Germany
£m
2014
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2014
T otal
£m
2013
as 
restated*
UK
£m
2013
as 
restated*
Germany
£m
2013
as 
restated*
Republic
of Ireland
£m
2013
as 
restated*
Total
£m
Present value of the fair value 
of scheme assets at the 
beginning of the year 384.3 — 3.9 388.2 346.2 — 3.3 349.5
Movement in year:
Interest income 16.8 — 0.2 17 .0 17 .2 — 0.2 17 .4
Return on plan assets 
(excluding interest income) (10.0) — 0.4 (9.6) 26.2 — 0.2 26.4
Contributions by company 4.8 0.2 0.2 5.2 5.1 0.1 0.2 5.4
Benefits paid (10.1) (0.2) (0.1) (10.4) (9.8) (0.1) — (9.9)
Administrative expenses (0.6) — — (0.6) (0.6) — — (0.6)
Insurance premiums for risk 
benefits (0.3) — — (0.3) — — — —
Present value of the fair value 
of scheme assets at the end of 
the year 384.9 — 4.6 389.5 384.3 — 3.9 388.2
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102
The cumulative amount of actuarial loss recognised is £36.1 million (2013: £16.5 million).
In addition, the value of the assets held by external AVCs amounted to £0.1 million as at 31 March 2014 (2013: £0.1 million).
The value of the assets held by the defined contribution section of the UK scheme amounted to £32.7 million as at 31 March 
2014 (2013: £26.7 million).
Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key IAS 19 assumptions
The following analysis estimates the impact of various principal assumption changes on the UK defined benefit pension 
obligation, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Effect on obligation of a 0.1% increase to the assumed discount rate Liabilities reduce by £8.7m
Effect on obligation of an assumed increase in one year’s life expectancy Liabilities increase by £9.7m 114
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
9 Income tax expense
Tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the 
taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years.
The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to 
determine the tax charge included in the financial statements. 
T axation on the profit of the Group
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
UK corporation tax at 23% (2013: 24%) 13.4 12.8
UK deferred taxation 0.1 (2.4)
13.5 10.4
Overseas current taxation 10.1 10.9
Overseas deferred taxation 6.0 6.0
Total income tax expense in Income Statement  29.6 27 .3
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102
Total tax expense is reconciled to a notional 23% (2013: 24%) of profit before taxation as follows:
T axation on the profit of the Group
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
Expected tax charge 23.3 20.8
Differences in overseas corporation tax rates 6.4 5.7
Impact of tax losses 1.4 (0.6)
Items not taxable for tax purposes  (3.0) (0.5)
Other local taxes suffered overseas  0.7 1.2
Under provision in prior years 0.8 0.7
29.6 27 .3
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102 Our Business
115
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
9 Income tax expense continued
T ax (income) expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
Recognised in retained earnings
Relating to remeasurement of pension deficit (3.5) (1 .7)
Recognised in the hedging reserve
Relating to gain (loss) on cash flow hedges 0.7 (0.4)
Recognised in the cumulative translation reserve
Relating to loss on net investment hedges — (1 .0)
(2.8) (3.1)
T ax recognised directly in equity
Relating to equity-settled transactions (0.5) 0.5
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102
The 2014 Budget on 19 March 2014 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 2015. A reduction to 20% 
(effective from 1 April 2014) was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012. This will apply to the company’s future tax charge. In line 
with this change the rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20% creating a rate 
adjustment, which is partly reflected by a benefit to the Group income statement (£0.4 million), and partly in a benefit to the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income (£0.4 million). Accordingly both recognised and unrecognised UK deferred 
tax balances as at 31 March 2014 have been calculated at a rate of 20%.
Deferred taxation balances are analysed in note 22.
10 Dividends
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts recognised in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 – 6.75p (2012: 6.75p) 29.5 29.5
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 – 5.0p (2013: 5.0p) 21.9 21 .8
51.4 51 .3
Proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 –  6.75p 29.5
The amount waived by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust in respect of the interim and final dividends was £0.1 million 
(2013: £0.1 million).
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2014 and has not been included as a 
liability in these accounts.   116
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
1 1 Earnings per share
2014
£m
2013
as restated*
£m
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent company 71.5 59.4
Reorganisation costs — 7.4
Tax impact of reorganisation costs — (1 .7)
Headline profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent company 71.5 65.1
Weighted average number of shares 439,089,865 437 ,818,646
Dilutive effect of share options 3,099,210 2,047 ,722
Diluted weighted average number of shares 442,189,075 439,866,368
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 16.3 13.6
Diluted earnings per share 16.2 13.5
Headline basic earnings per share 16.3 14.9
Headline diluted earnings per share 16.2 14.8
* Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 on page 102
There were no further share options (2013: 1,104,306) outstanding as at 31 March 2014 that were anti-dilutive.
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill and other intangibles
Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been written off against reserves. Goodwill arising on 
acquisitions after 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP , was amortised on a straight-line basis over its 
estimated useful life, with a maximum of 20 years.
The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that allows goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 
2004 to remain as stated under UK GAAP . The balance of goodwill as at 1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward. 
Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS. Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. The cost of acquired intangible assets are their 
purchase cost together with any incidental costs of acquisition. Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a 
straight-line basis at the following annual rates:
Trademarks 5%
Computer software costs 12.5%–50%
Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the income statement. The residual value, if significant, is 
reassessed annually. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an 
expense as incurred. Our Business
117
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
12 Intangible assets continued
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s goodwill are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of 
impairment. If such an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.    
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair 
value less cost of sale and value in use. The present value of estimated future cash flows is calculated using a pre tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that 
does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which 
the asset belongs.
Cost
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Other 
intangibles
£m
T otal
£m
At 1 April 2012 163.7 153.8 0.3 317 .8
Additions — 24.4 — 24.4
Disposals — (2.1) — (2.1)
Translation differences 8.5 0.9 — 9.4
At 1 April 2013 172.2 177 .0 0.3 349.5
Additions — 28.4 0.1 28.5
Disposals — (5.2) — (5.2)
Reclassification — 2.7 — 2.7
Translation differences (15.4) (3.3) — (18.7)
At 31 March 2014 156.8 199.6 0.4 356.8
Amortisation
At 1 April 2012 — 113.5 0.2 113.7
Charged in the year — 13.7 — 13.7
Disposals — (1 .7) — (1 .7)
Translation differences — 0.3 — 0.3
At 1 April 2013 — 125.8 0.2 126.0
Charged in the year — 17 .1 0.1 17 .2
Disposals — (4.1) — (4.1)
Translation differences — (2.1) — (2.1)
At 31 March 2014 — 136.7 0.3 137 .0
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 156.8 62.9 0.1 219.8
At 31 March 2013 172.2 51 .2 0.1 223.5
At 31 March 2012 163.7 40.3 0.1 204.1
Of total goodwill of £156.8 million (2013: £172.2 million), £156.2 million (2013: £171 .6 million) related to the acquisition of Allied 
Electronics Inc. in July 1999, and £0.6 million (2013: £0.6 million) related to the acquisition of the Group’s Norwegian distributor 
in September 2001 . 118
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
12 Intangible assets continued
Value in use calculations
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value in use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on actual operating results together with management 
projections for five years. These cash flows are based on extrapolations from earlier budgets and forecasts. These are subject 
to assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions; for example, by examining the causes of differences between past cash 
flow projections and actual cash flows.
Cash flows for further periods, i.e. beyond five years, are extrapolated using a long-term annual growth rate of 2% (2013: 2%), 
which is consistent with the prudent ‘market estimate’ long-term average growth rate for the distribution industry.
A pre-tax discount rate of 7 .1% (2013: 8.4%) has been applied in calculating the discounted projected cash flows.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions used are the sales growth rate and discount rate.    
The sales growth rate is prepared using internal forecasts based upon historical growth rates and future medium-term plans 
together with relevant macroeconomic indicators. The long-term growth rates used are consistent with the prudent ‘market 
estimate’ long-term average growth rates for the industry and do not exceed expected long-term GDP growth.
The discount rate is derived from the Group’s weighted average cost of capital at 31 March 2014 and has been calculated 
reflecting market assessments at that time.
The Directors believe that currently all ‘reasonably likely’ changes in the key assumptions referred to above would not give rise 
to an impairment charge.
Outcome of calculations    
The recoverable amount of the Allied Electronics Inc. cash generating unit exceeds its carrying value and the carrying value of 
the goodwill is therefore not impaired. 
13 Property, plant and equipment
Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and certain direct overheads.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 
Each finance leased asset is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at the inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land. Other assets have been depreciated to residual value on a straight-line 
basis at the following annual rates:
Freehold and leasehold buildings 2%
Plant and machinery 10%–20%
Computer equipment 20%–33%
Other office equipment 20%
Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the income statement. The residual value, if significant, is 
reassessed annually.  Our Business
119
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
13 Property, plant and equipment continued
Government grants
Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment are credited to the income statement at the same 
rate as the depreciation on the asset to which the grants relate. The unamortised balance of capital grants is included within 
trade and other payables.
Cost
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Computer 
systems
£m
T otal
£m
At 1 April 2012 110.9 130.4 80.3 321 .6
Additions 0.2 4.1 — 4.3
Disposals — (1 .5) (2.6) (4.1)
Translation differences 1 .5 0.8 0.5 2.8
At 1 April 2013 112.6 133.8 78.2 324.6
Additions 0.6 7 .1 2.0 9.7
Disposals — (0.7) (3.4) (4.1)
Reclassification — — (2.7) (2.7)
Translation differences (2.8) (2.3) (1.7) (6.8)
At 31 March 2014 110.4 137 .9 72.4 320.7
Depreciation
At 1 April 2012 33.9 106.6 61 .6 202.1
Charged in the year 2.2 5.6 4.4 12.2
Disposals — (1 .3) (1 .8) (3.1)
Translation differences 0.3 0.6 0.4 1 .3
At 1 April 2013 36.4 111.5 64.6 212.5
Charged in the year 2.5 4.8 3.6 10.9
Disposals — (0.5) (3.4) (3.9)
Translation differences (0.6) (1.6) (1.2) (3.4)
At 31 March 2014 38.3 114.2 63.6 216.1
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 72.1 23.7 8.8 104.6
At 31 March 2013 76.2 22.3 13.6 112.1
At 31 March 2012 77 .0 23.8 18.7 119.5
Net book value of land and buildings
2014
£m
2013
£m
Freehold land 12.0 12.3
Freehold buildings 56.4 60.0
Long leasehold buildings 0.3 0.4
Short leasehold buildings 3.4 3.5
 72.1 76.2
Net book value of plant and machinery
Plant and machinery 22.5 21 .1
Other office equipment 1.0 1.0
Motor vehicles 0.2 0.2
23.7 22.3
All classes of tangible assets are depreciated except for freehold land.
14 Capital commitments
2014
£m
2013
£m
Contracted capital expenditure at 31 March, for which no provision has been  
made in these accounts 0.2 1.6 120
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
15 Investments
The Group accounts include the Group’s share of the total recognised gains and losses in one jointly controlled entity on an 
equity accounted basis.  
2014
£m
2013
£m
Jointly controlled entity 0.4 0.6
For details of the jointly controlled entity, see below.
16 Principal subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings
Principal location Country of incorporation
High service distribution of electronics and maintenance products
RS Components Pty Limited*  Sydney Australia
RS Components Handelsges.m.b.H.*  Gmünd Austria
Allied Electronics (Canada) Inc.*  Ottawa Canada
RS Componentes Electrónicos Limitada* Santiago Chile
RS Components A/S* Copenhagen Denmark
RS Composants SAS*  Beauvais France
RS Components GmbH*  Frankfurt Germany
RS Components Limited*  Kowloon Hong Kong
RS Components & Controls (India) Limited†  New Delhi India
RS Components SpA*  Milan Italy
RS Components KK*  Yokohama Japan
RS Components Sdn Bhd*  Kuala Lumpur Malaysia
RS Components BV*  Haarlem Netherlands
RS Components Limited*  Auckland New Zealand
RS Components AS*  Haugesund  Norway
RS Components (Shanghai) Company Limited*  Shanghai People’s Republic of China
RS Components Sp. Z.o.o.* Warsaw Poland
Radionics Limited*  Dublin Republic of Ireland
RS Components Pte Limited*  Singapore Singapore
Amidata SAu*  Madrid Spain
RS Components AB*  Vällingby Sweden
RS Components Company Limited* Bangkok Thailand
RS Components Limited  Corby UK
Allied Electronics Inc.*  Fort Worth United States of America
RS Components Corporation* Manilla Philippines
Holding and Management Companies
Electrocomponents France SARL* Beauvais France
Electrocomponents UK Limited  Oxford UK
RS Components Holdings Limited* Oxford UK
Electrocomponents North America Inc.* Laytonsville United States of America
* Except as stated below all of the above are wholly owned by Electrocomponents plc. Those companies marked with an asterisk are indirectly owned. The 
companies operate within their countries of incorporation. RS Components Limited (UK) exports to most countries where the Group does not have a trading 
company and operates branch offices in Japan, South Africa, Taiwan and the Philippines. RS Components Limited also operates under the names of RS Calibration, 
RS Mechanical and RS Health & Safety in the UK. The information given above is in respect of such undertakings as are referred to in s410(2) of the Companies Act 
2006.
† RS Components & Controls (India) Limited (RSCC) is a jointly controlled entity with Controls & Switchgear Company Limited, a company registered in India. The 
authorised share capital of this company is INR20 million, of which INR18 million is issued and owned in equal shares by Electrocomponents UK Limited and its 
partner. RS Components Limited supplies products to RSCC, while office space and distribution network are provided by Controls & Switchgear. During the year 
ended  
31 March 2014 the Group made sales of £0.7 million (2013: £0.7 million) to RSCC. RSCC is accounted for using the equity accounting method.
A full list of subsidiary companies is available from the Company’s registered office. Our Business
121
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
17 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis. Work in 
progress and goods for resale include attributable overheads. 
The Group estimates the net realisable value of inventory in order to determine the value of any provision required and key 
judgements relate to the duration of product lifecycles, amount of anticipated sales over this lifecycle and the value recoverable 
from any excess stock.  
2014
£m
2013
£m
Raw materials and consumables 45.8 52.8
Finished goods and goods for resale 240.6 240.9
Gross inventories 286.4 293.7
Stock provisions (27 .6) (31 .8)
Net inventories 258.8 261 .9
During the year £9.1 million (2013: £11 .9 million) was recognised as an expense relating to the write down of inventory to net 
realisable value.
18 T rade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Gross trade receivables 202.6 208.0
Provision for doubtful debts (5.0) (5.4)
Amounts owed by jointly controlled entity 0.3 0.2
Derivative assets (see note 21) 1.9 1.3
Other receivables 4.4 4.3
Prepayments and accrued income 10.6 12.7
Trade and other receivables falling due within one year 214.8 221 .1
Other receivables falling due after more than one year 5.3 7.1
19 T rade and other payables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Trade payables  105.7 120.8
Other taxation and social security  12.9 12.8
Derivative liabilities (see note 21) 0.5 1.7
Other payables  1.4 3.0
Government grants  0.1 0.1
Accruals and deferred income  64.8 56.4
Trade and other payables due within one year     185.4 194.8
Other payables  8.1 7.9
Government grants  3.7 3.9
Other payables due in more than one year 11.8 11 .8 122
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2014
£m
2013
£m
Non-current liabilities:
Unsecured bank facilities 37 .1 62.2
Finance lease liabilities — 0.7
Unsecured Private Placement Notes 94.3 105.8
131.4 168.7
Current liabilities:
Unsecured bank overdrafts 15.8 10.7
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 1.4
 16.5 12.1
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Amounts falling due on demand or in less than one year 16.5 12.1
In more than one but not more than two years 76.4 0.7
In more than two but not more than three years — 105.5
In more than three but not more than four years 55.0 —
In more than four but not more than five years — 62.5
 147 .9 180.8
Borrowings are analysed by currency as:
Sterling
2014
£m
US Dollar
2014
£m
Euro
2014
£m
Other
2014
£m
T otal
2014
£m
Unsecured bank overdrafts 10.8 4.4 0.2 0.4 15.8
Unsecured bank facilities 10.0 23.9 — 3.2 37 .1
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 — — — 0.7
Unsecured Private Placement Notes — 94.3 — — 94.3
Total borrowings 21.5 122.6 0.2 3.6 147 .9
Borrowings are analysed by currency as:
Sterling
2013
£m
US Dollar
2013
£m
Euro
2013
£m
Other
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Unsecured bank overdrafts 8.7 — 0.7 1 .3 10.7
Unsecured bank facilities 24.6 26.3 7 .6 3.7 62.2
Finance lease liabilities 2.1 — — — 2.1
Unsecured Private Placement Notes — 105.8 — — 105.8
Total borrowings 35.4 132.1 8.3 5.0 180.8 Our Business
123
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
21 Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operational and financing activities. It principally employs forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in 
exchange rates over fixed terms of between three and six months of the majority of its operating companies. In addition there 
are also a number of interest rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’s risk management policies. Hedges are 
classified as follows:
 — Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated 
with a forecast transaction.
 — Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
 — Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of 
foreign operations.
All the Group’s derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the 
fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised 
in the income statement as they arise.
Cash flow hedge accounting
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is 
recognised directly in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. When 
the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated cumulative 
gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability. When the forecast 
transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss that 
was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the income statement in the same period during which the asset acquired 
or liability assumed affects the income statement.        
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge 
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains 
in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no 
longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the 
income statement.        
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference between their discounted contractual forward price and 
their current forward price.
Fair value hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate and exchange rate risks arising from financing 
activities, holding a small number of interest rate and cross currency swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
The fair value of the swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates. 
The market value of changes in fair values of derivatives designated as fair value hedges and changes in fair value of the related 
hedged item are recognised directly in the income statement.        
All not accounted for under fair value hedge accounting are held at amortised cost, which approximates to fair value as interest 
repricing takes place on a regular basis. 124
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
21 Financial instruments continued
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be 
an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial 
position, are as follows.
None of the financial assets or financial liabilities have been reclassified during the year.
Notes
Valuation
methodology
Carrying 
value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Financial assets
Financial assets held at fair value
Interest rate swaps used for hedging A 3.7 3.7
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 18 A 1.9 1.9
5.6 5.6
Financial assets held at amortised cost
Cash and cash equivalents 26 D 0.7 0.7
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 18 F 213.5 213.5
214.2 214.2
T otal financial assets at 31 March 2014 219.8 219.8
Notes
Valuation
methodology
Carrying 
value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities held at fair value
Interest rate swaps used for hedging A (0.1) (0.1)
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 19 A (0.5) (0.5)
Private Placement notes 20 C (64.4) (64.4)
(65.0) (65.0)
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost
Bank facilities 20 D (37 .1) (37 .1)
Private Placement notes 20 D (29.9) (31.7)
Finance lease liabilities 20 E (0.7) (0.7)
Bank overdrafts 20 D (15.8) (15.8)
Trade payables, other payables and accruals 20 F (202.2) (202.2)
(285.7) (287 .5)
T otal financial liabilities at 31 March 2014 (350.7) (352.5) Our Business
125
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
21 Financial instruments continued
Notes
Valuation
methodology
Carrying 
value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Financial assets
Financial assets held at fair value
Interest rate swaps used for hedging A 11 .8 11 .8
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 18 A 1 .3 1 .3
13.1 13.1
Financial assets held at amortised cost
Cash and cash equivalents 26 D 9.3 9.3
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 18 F 217 .3 217 .3
226.6 226.6
T otal financial assets at 31 March 2013 239.7 239.7
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities held at fair value
Forward exchange rate contracts used for hedging 19 A (1 .7) (1 .7)
Private Placement notes 20 C (72.9) (72.9)
(74.6) (74.6)
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost
Bank facilities 20 D (62.2) (62.2)
Private Placement notes 20 D (32.9) (35.4)
Finance lease liabilities 20 E (2.1) (2.1)
Bank overdrafts 20 D (10.7) (10.7)
Trade payables, other payables and accruals 20 F (210.4) (210.4)
(318.3) (320.8)
T otal financial liabilities at 31 March 2013 (392.9) (395.4)
Estimation of fair values
The fair values reflected in the table above have been determined by reference to available market information at the balance 
sheet date and using the methodologies described below.
A Derivative financial assets and liabilities
Fair values are estimated by discounting expected future contractual cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves and valuing 
any amounts denominated in foreign currencies at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. These financial 
instruments are included on the balance sheet at fair value, derived from observable market prices. (Level 2 as defined by  
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.)
B Interest-bearing loans held at fair value
These comprise sterling and foreign currency denominated interest bearing loans which are subject to hedge accounting. The 
foreign currency amounts have been valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. (Level 2 as defined by 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.)
C Loans designated under fair value hedge relationships
These comprise sterling and foreign currency denominated interest bearing loans which are subject to hedge accounting. The 
foreign currency amounts have been valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.  These loans have been 
designated under fair value hedge relationships. 126
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
21 Financial instruments continued
D Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, interest-bearing loans held at amortised cost
Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise local bank account balances, which typically bear interest at rates set by reference 
to local applicable rates or cash float balances which have not yet cleared for interest purposes. Fair values are estimated to 
equate to carrying amounts as their re-pricing maturity is less than one year.
Interest bearing loans held at amortised cost comprise fixed rate sterling and foreign currency denominated loans. For carrying 
values the foreign currency principal amounts have been valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Fair 
values are estimated by discounting future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and are all unsecured. They bear interest at rates set by reference to applicable local 
rates. Fair values are estimated to equate to carrying amounts as their re-pricing maturity is less than one year.
E Finance lease liabilities
Fair values are estimated by discounting future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves.
F Other financial assets and liabilities
Fair values of receivables and payables are determined by discounting future cash flows. For amounts with a repricing maturity 
of less than one year, fair value is assumed to approximate to the carrying amount.
Cash pooling
The Group operates legal arrangements whereby cash balances and overdrafts held with the same bank are offset to give a net 
balance which is included within cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet. These cash and bank overdraft figures before 
netting are shown in the tables below:
Gross 
amounts 
before 
offsetting
£m
Gross 
amounts 
set off
£m
Net 
amounts 
presented
£m
31 March 2014
Cash at bank and in hand 213.1 (212.7) 0.4
Bank overdrafts (228.3) 212.7 (15.6)
T otal (15.2) — (15.2)
31 March 2013
Cash at bank and in hand 175.1 (175.1) —
Bank overdrafts (185.4) 175.1 (10.3)
T otal (10.3) — (10.3)
Risk management objectives and policies
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of liquidity, market and credit. Each of these are managed 
in accordance with Board approved policies. The policies are set out below. Our Business
127
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
21 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s key priority is to ensure that it can meet its liabilities as they fall due. The Group ensures this by having sufficient 
committed debt facilities in place to meet its anticipated funding requirements. The Group’s forecast funding requirements and 
its committed debt facilities are reported to and monitored by the Treasury Committee monthly.
As at 31 March 2014 the Group had the following committed debt finance in place:
 Private Placement notes of $150 million with maturities of June 2015 and June 2017 .
 A syndicated multicurrency facility for $75 million, £120 million and €50 million with a maturity of November 2015;
As at 31 March 2014, the Group had available £169.1 million of undrawn committed debt facilities in respect of which all 
conditions precedent had been met.        
The Group also uses bank overdrafts, uncommitted short term money market loans, cash and short term investments. The main 
purpose of these financial instruments is to manage the Group’s day-to-day funding and liquidity requirements.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including contractual future interest payments.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
Carrying 
amounts
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–3
years
£m
3–4
years
£m
4–5
 years
£m
More 
than
5 years
£m
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for 
hedging (0.1) (0.4) (0.2) (0.2) — — — —
Forward exchange rate 
contracts used for hedging (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) — — — — —
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Bank loans (38.1) (38.1) (0.6) (37 .5) — — — —
Private Placement notes (94.3) (101.6) (4.3) (42.4) (2.6) (52.3) — —
Finance lease liabilities (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) — — — — —
Bank overdrafts (15.8) (15.8) (15.8) — — — — —
Trade payables, other payables 
and accruals* (202.2) (202.2) (202.2) — — — — —
At 31 March 2014 (351.7) (359.3) (224.3) (80.1) (2.6) (52.3) — —
Carrying 
amounts
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–3
years
£m
3–4
years
£m
4–5
 years
£m
More 
than
5 years
£m
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for 
hedging — — ———— — —
Forward exchange rate 
contracts used for hedging (1 .7) (1 .7) (1 .7) ——— — —
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Bank loans (62.2) (64.8) (0.9) (0.9) (63.0) —— —
Private Placement notes (105.8) (116.5) (4.8) (4.8) (46.6) (2.9) (57 .4) —
Finance lease liabilities (2.1) (2.1) (1 .4) (0.7) —— — —
Bank overdrafts (10.7) (10.7) (10.7) ——— — —
Trade payables, other payables 
and accruals* (210.4) (210.4) (207 .2) (3.2) —— — —
At 31 March 2013 (392.9) (406.2) (226.7) (9.6) (109.6) (2.9) (57 .4) —
* Excludes derivatives which are shown separately. 128
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
21 Financial instruments continued
Market risk
Foreign currency transactional risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency transactional risk because most operating companies have some level of payables in 
currencies other than their functional currency. Some operating companies also have receivables in currencies other than their 
functional currency.
Hedging of currency exposures during periods when operating companies cannot easily change their selling prices is 
implemented in order to ‘shelter’ the forecast gross profits during those periods. In this way the impacts of currency 
fluctuations can be smoothed until selling prices can be changed in the light of movements in exchange rates. The hedges are 
enacted through forward foreign currency contracts entered into by Group Treasury based on trading projections provided by 
the operating companies.  The Group’s largest exposures relate to Euros and US Dollars.  As at 31 March 2014, net forecasted 
exposures in Euros and US Dollars for the first six months (Euros) and first three months (US Dollars) of the year ending  
31 March 2015 were 100% hedged.
In addition, specific cash flows relating to material transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the local 
business are hedged when the commitment is made.
The Group classifies forward exchange contracts as hedging instruments against forecast receivables/payables and designates 
them as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. The forecast cash flows are expected to occur evenly throughout the period 
for 12 months from the year end, and will affect the income statement in the period in which they occur. The net fair value of 
forward exchange contracts not used as hedges of forecast transactions at 31 March 2014 was £nil (2013: £nil).
Foreign currency transaction exposures, and the hedges in place to mitigate them, are monitored monthly by the Treasury 
Committee.
The Group does not believe its foreign currency transactional risk has materially altered during the year.
Foreign currency translational risk
During the year ended 31 March 2010 the Group issued $37 .5 million of Private Placement Notes, with maturities of June 2015 
and June 2017 , and, using cross currency interest rate swaps, swapped $36.3million to £22.5 million at a floating interest rate.
In June 2010 a further $112.5million of Private Placement Notes, with maturities of June 2015 and June 2017 were issued, and, 
using cross-currency interest rate swaps the Group swapped $63.8million into a combination of £14.8 million and €28.3 million 
at floating interest rates.
These cross-currency interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges and are expected to remain highly effective over 
the life of the Private Placement notes.
The Group has designated certain external loans as net investment hedges against its investments in its US and European 
subsidiaries. The carrying value of these $ and € hedges remained highly effective throughout the year ended 31 March 2014.
A foreign exchange gain of £7 .1 million (2013: loss of £2.8 million) was recognised in equity on translation of the loans to 
Sterling in the year ended 31 March 2014.
No other foreign currency translation exposures are explicitly hedged although local currency debt is used where economic and 
fiscally efficient in the financing of subsidiaries and this provides a degree of natural hedging. Guidelines are in place to manage 
the currency mix of the Group’s net debt. The Group does not believe its foreign currency translational risk has materially altered 
during the year. Our Business
129
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
21 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
The Group has relatively high interest cover and therefore the Group adopts a policy of paying and receiving most of its interest 
on a variable interest rate basis, as in the opinion of the Group this minimises interest cost over time. This policy is subject to 
regular monitoring of the effect of potential changes in interest rates on its interest cost with a view to taking suitable actions 
should exposure reach certain levels. The Group does not believe its interest rate risk has materially altered during the year.
As at 31 March 2014 the Group had:
 Fixed the interest on $40 million borrowings from its syndicated bank facility until August 2016 using an interest rate swap 
designated as a cash flow hedge
 Left $50 million of its Private Placement notes fixed until June 2015.
 Swapped $100 million of its Private Placement Notes from $ fixed to £ floating ($60 million) and € floating ($40 million) using 
an interest rate swap. This is designated as a fair value hedge.
All other borrowings were at a variable rate.
Interest rate profile
The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments, as at 31 March 2014 and as at 31 March 2013 are 
set out below. The classification and balances include the impact of the interest rate swaps.
2014 2013
Fixed rate
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
T otal
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Floating  
rate
£m
Total
£m
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Current (0.7) (15.8) (16.5) (1 .4) (10.7) (12.1)
Non-current (53.9) (73.8) (127 .7) (59.9) (116.2) (176.1)
At 31 March (54.6) (89.6) (144.2) (61 .3) (126.9) (188.2)
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents — 0.7 0.7 — 9.3 9.3
At 31 March — 0.7 0.7 — 9.3 9.3
Cash flow hedges £m
Fair value of hedging instruments under cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2012:
Assets 1.3
Liabilities (1 .0)
Net 0.3
In the year ended 31 March 2013:
Amount removed from equity and taken to income statement in operating profit (0.3)
Fair value of cash flow hedges taken to equity (0.4)
Fair value of hedging instruments under cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2013:
Assets 1.3
Liabilities (1 .7)
Net (0.4) 130
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
21 Financial instruments continued
In the year ended 31 March 2014:
£m
Amount removed from equity and taken to income statement in operating profit 0.4
Fair value of cash flow hedges taken to equity 1.3
Fair value of hedging instruments under cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2014:
Assets 1.9
Liabilities (0.6)
Net 1.3
Maturity profile of financial derivatives
Within
1 year
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–3
years
£m
3–4
years
£m
4–5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Interest rate and cross currency swaps 
hedging Private Placement notes:
 Assets — — — 3.7 — —
Other interest rate swaps:
 Liabilities — — (0.1) — — —
Forward exchange contracts:
 Assets 1.9 — — — — —
 Liabilities (0.5) — — — — —
At 31 March 2014 1.4 — (0.1) 3.7 — —
Within
1 year
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–3
years
£m
3–4
years
£m
4–5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Interest rate and cross currency swaps 
hedging Private Placement notes:
 Assets — — 1.2 — 10.6 —
Other interest rate swaps:
 Liabilities — — — — — —
Forward exchange contracts:
 Assets 1.3 — — — — —
 Liabilities (1.7) — — — — —
At 31 March 2013 (0.4) — 1.2 — 10.6 — Our Business
131
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
21 Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis set out below summarises the impact on:
 Interest expense of a 1% increase/decrease in interest rates on all currencies from their actual levels for the year ended  
31 March 2014 and the year ended 31 March 2013
 Group profit before tax of a 10% increase/decrease in the value of the US Dollar and the Euro against Sterling from the actual 
level for the year ended 31 March 2014 and the year ended 31 March 2013 
The sensitivity analysis is based on the following:
 Changes in market interest rates affect the interest income or expense of variable interest financial instruments;
 Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest 
rates if these are recognised at their fair market value
 Changes in market interest rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments
 Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are estimated by 
discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end
Y ear ended 31 March 2014
1%  
Increase
in interest
rates
£m
1% 
Decrease
 in interest
rates
£m
10% 
Increase
in value of
US$ & €
£m
10% 
Decrease
in value of
US$ & €
£m
Impact on Income Statement: (loss)/gain (1.0) 1.0 6.0 (4.9)
Impact on equity: gain (loss) — — 21.0 (17 .9)
Y ear ended 31 March 2013
1% 
 Increase
in interest
rates
£m
1% 
Decrease
 in interest
rates
£m
10% 
Increase 
in value of
US$ & €
£m
10% 
Decrease
 in value of
US$ & €
£m
Impact on Income Statement: (loss) gain (1 .1) 1 .1 5.5 (4.5)
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) — — 20.2 (16.6)
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash balances (including deposits and cash and cash equivalents) 
and derivative instruments and on trade and other receivables.
The amounts in the balance sheet represent the maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date. There were no 
significant concentrations of credit risk at the balance sheet date, as exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties, 
customers and geographic locations. As such, the Group does not believe its credit risk has materially altered during the year.
The Group identifies counterparties of suitable creditworthiness based on ratings assigned by international credit-rating 
agencies and has procedures to ensure that only these parties are used, that exposure limits are set based on the external 
credit ratings, and that these limits are not exceeded. 132
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
21 Financial instruments continued
T rade and other receivables
All operating companies have credit policies and monitor their credit exposure on an ongoing basis. Each operating company 
performs credit evaluations on all customers seeking credit over a certain amount. Trade receivables are stated net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by local management based on prior experience of customers and assessment 
of their current economic environment. There are no significant individual allowances for doubtful receivables included within 
this amount.
For countries with no local operating company presence export credit limits are set and monitored on a country basis monthly 
by the Treasury Committee.
Given the profile of our customers, whereby credit risk is spread amongst a large number of customers with small balances, no 
further material credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables not past due other than those balances for which an 
allowance has been made.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
2014
£m
2013
£m
UK 62.7 62.7
Continental Europe 81.5 81 .9
North America 32.0 34.5
Asia Pacific 21.4 23.5
197 .6 202.6
The aging of net trade receivables at the reporting date was:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Not past due 149.7 136.0
Past due 0–60 days 40.3 58.0
Past due 60–120 days 4.5 5.9
Past due >120 days 3.1 2.7
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of loans and receivables during the year was as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Balance at 1 April (5.4) (4.7)
Impairment gain (loss) recognised 0.4 (0.7)
Balance at 31 March (5.0) (5.4)
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to always maintain a strong capital base, with an appropriate debt to equity mix, to ensure investor, 
creditor and market confidence and to support the future development of the business. The Board monitors the return on 
capital, which the Group defines as operating profit as a percentage of net assets plus net debt, and the level of dividends to 
ordinary shareholders.
The Group’s seeks to raise debt from a variety of sources and with a variety of maturities. As at 31 March 2014 the Group had 
a Revolving Credit Facility of £120 million, $75 million and €50 million with a maturity of November 2015 and $65 million of US 
Private Placement Notes due 2015 and $85 million due 2017 . The Group’s debt covenants are EBITA: Interest to be greater than 
3:1 and Net Debt: EBITDA to be less than 3.25:1 . At the year end the Group comfortably met these covenants.
There were no significant changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Our Business
133
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
22 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.  
The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.  
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
these temporary differences can be utilised.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Property, plant and equipment — — (8.2) (9.1) (8.2) (9.1)
Goodwill — — (57 .1) (57 .1) (57 .1) (57 .1)
Retirement benefit obligations 8.2 4.3 — — 8.2 4.3
Inventories 1.1 1.1 (0.3) (0.1) 0.8 1.0
Employee benefits 3.1 3.2 — — 3.1 3.2
Provisions 0.9 0.6 — — 0.9 0.6
Other items 0.1 1.6 — — 0.1 1.6
Tax losses 1.7 2.7 — — 1.7 2.7
Tax assets (liabilities) 15.1 13.5 (65.6) (66.3) (50.5) (52.8)
Set off of tax (6.2) (7 .1) 6.2 7.1 — —
Net tax assets (liabilities) 8.9 6.4 (59.4) (59.2) (50.5) (52.8)
The decrease in the net deferred tax liability is largely due to the rate reduction from 23% to 20% (see note 9) and the reduced 
offset of tax losses due to the fact that they are being utilised.  This deferred tax liability is not expected to crystallise in the 
foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised for tax losses where current projections show that sufficient taxable profits will arise 
in the near future against which these losses may be offset.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Tax losses 4.1 8.3
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these tax losses which can be carried forward against future taxable 
income as recoverability is uncertain.
Balance at 
1 April
2013
Recognised 
in profit 
and loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Exchange 
gains/losses
Balance at 
31 March 
2014
Property, plant and equipment (9.1) 0.6 — 0.3 (8.2)
Goodwill (57 .1) (5.2) — 5.2 (57 .1)
Retirement benefit obligations 4.3 0.4 3.5 — 8.2
Inventories 1 .0 (0.1) — (0.1) 0.8
Employee benefits 3.2 (0.4) 0.4 (0.1) 3.1
Provisions 0.6 0.3 — — 0.9
Other items 1 .6 (0.7) (0.7) (0.1) 0.1
Tax losses 2.7 (1 .0) — — 1.7
Net tax (liabilities) assets (52.8) (6.1) 3.2 5.2 (50.5) 134
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
23 Lease commitments
Operating leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period. The 
benefits of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full 
lease term.
Operating lease commitments 
The Group has entered into non-cancellable leases in respect of plant and machinery, the payments for which extend over a 
period of up to five years. The total annual rental for 2014 was £7 .6 million (2013: £7 .5 million). The lease agreements provide 
that the Group will pay all insurance, maintenance and repairs. In addition, the Group leases certain properties on short and long 
term leases. The annual rental on these leases was £14.4 million (2013: £14.2 million). The rents payable under these leases are 
subject to renegotiation at various intervals specified in the leases. The Group pays all insurance, maintenance and repairs of 
these properties. Operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
Properties Plant and machinery
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year 8.3 8.7 6.6 7.0
Within two to five years 15.2 14.1 8.6 7.9
After five years 1.7 1.1 — —
 25.2 23.9 15.2 14.9
24 Related parties
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries as disclosed in note 16 on page 120 to the Group accounts 
and with its key management personnel. The key management personnel of the Group are the Directors and the Group 
Executive Committee. Compensation of key management personnel was:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Remuneration 2.8 3.2
Social security costs 0.3 0.5
Equity-settled transactions 0.9 0.7
Pension costs 0.6 0.4
4.6 4.8
Details of transactions with the jointly controlled entity are given in note 16 on page 120 to the Group accounts. Our Business
135
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
25 Share capital
2014
Number of 
shares
2013
Number of 
shares
2014
£m
2013
£m
Ordinary shares of 10p each:
Called-up and fully paid:
At 1 April 438,124,179 436,961,886 43.8 43.7
New share capital subscribed 1,462,277 1,162,293 0.2 0.1
At 31 March 439,586,456 438,124,179 44.0 43.8
All of the new share capital subscribed in the financial year 2014 related to the exercise of share options (note 7).  
Details of the own shares held are given in note 9 to the Company accounts on page 143.
26 Cash and cash equivalents
Net debt
Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings. Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and 
held with qualifying financial institutions in current accounts or overnight deposits net of overdrafts with qualifying financial 
institutions. Cash and cash equivalents include investment in money market funds and term deposits with qualifying financial 
institutions. Borrowings represent term loans from qualifying financial institutions together with financial instruments classified 
as liabilities.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Bank balances 0.7 9.3
Bank overdrafts (15.8) (10.7)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement (15.1) (1 .4)
Finance lease liabilities (0.7) (2.1)
Bank loans repayable after more than one year (37 .1) (62.2)
Private Placement Loan notes due 2015 (4.41%) (39.3) (43.4)
Private Placement Loan notes due 2017 (5.14%) (55.0) (62.4)
Fair value of swap hedging fixed rate borrowings 3.6 11 .8
Net debt (143.6) (159.7)
Net pension deficit (40.9) (19.0)
Net debt including net pension deficit (184.5) (178.7)
The movements on net debt during the year are analysed below:
Analysis of movement in net debt
2014
£m
2013
£m
Net debt at 1 April (159.7) (154.2)
Free cash flow 57 .7 49.3
Equity dividends paid (51.4) (51 .3)
Dividends from vested share options — (0.7)
New shares issued 1.4 0.6
Own shares acquired (0.6) (0.5)
New finance leases — (2.0)
Translation differences 9.0 (0.9)
Net debt at 31 March (143.6) (159.7) 136
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Notes to the Group Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
27 Contingent liabilities
At 31 March 2014 there were no contingent liabilities (2013: none).
28 Principal exchange rates
2014
Average
2014
Closing
2013
Average
2013
Closing
United States Dollar 1.59 1.67 1 .58 1 .52
Euro 1.19 1.21 1 .23 1 .19 Our Business
137
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2014
Company number: 647788
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 7 15.6 15.9 
Investments 8 294.2 284.8 
 309.8 300.7 
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 10 6.8 61 .0 
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 4.2 12.4 
Cash at bank and in hand 82.8 76.8 
 93.8 150.2 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 11 (32.1) (43.2)
Net current assets 61.7 107 .0 
T otal assets less current liabilities 371.5 407 .7 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 11 (131.4) (168.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 13 (0.7) (0.9)
 239.4 238.8 
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 16 44.0 43.8 
Share premium account 17 41.5 40.3 
Retained earnings 17 153.9 154.7 
Equity shareholders’ funds 239.4 238.8 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Boddie 
Group Finance Director
The notes on pages 138 to 145 form part of these Company accounts. 138
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE COMP ANY ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Company Accounts
For the year ended 31 March 2014
1 Basis of preparation
The Company accounts have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to 
fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, 
and in accordance with UK Company Law and UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP).
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union and are presented on pages 96 to 136.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company 
is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account.
The Company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of 
FRS 29 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) on the grounds 
that the parent undertaking, Electrocomponents plc, includes 
the Company in its own published consolidated accounts. 
Disclosures are provided in note 20 under IFRS 7 (Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures) which comply with the disclosure 
requirements of FRS 29.
T ranslation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate 
of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date and the gains and losses on translation are 
included in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising 
from operational and financing activities. It principally employs 
forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes 
in exchange rates over the catalogue periods of the majority 
of its operating companies. In addition, there are also interest 
rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating 
rate.
In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does 
not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading 
purposes.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as 
hedges in line with the Company’s risk management policies. 
Hedges are classified as follows:
 Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to 
changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
 Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to 
variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular 
risk associated with a forecast transaction.
All the Group’s derivatives are initially and in subsequent 
periods recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes 
in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 
qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting are 
recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
Cash flow hedge accounting
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a 
hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective 
part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is 
recognised directly in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or 
loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated 
cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in 
the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the 
recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated 
cumulative gain or loss that was recognised directly in equity 
is reclassified into the profit and loss account in the same 
period during which the asset acquired or liability assumed 
affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge 
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point 
remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the 
above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, 
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is 
recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the 
difference between their discounted contractual forward price 
and their current forward price. Our Business
139
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Fair value hedge accounting
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, 
holding interest rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate 
loans into floating rate.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value 
of the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account 
current interest rates.
Pension costs
The Company participates in Group operated defined 
contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. The 
assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the 
Company in independently administered funds.
As allowed by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company is 
unable to identify its share of the defined benefit scheme’s 
underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it 
as though it was a defined contribution pension scheme. The 
deficit of the scheme is included within the accounts of RS 
Components Limited.
T axation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year 
and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing 
differences. Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, 
in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
2 Profit for the financial year
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £49.8 million (2013: £12.8 million). A separate profit and loss account 
has not been presented in respect of the Company, as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosure of the audit fees payable to KPMG Audit plc for the audit of Electrocomponents plc’s financial statements is made in 
note 4 of the Group accounts.
3 Employees
Numbers employed
2014
£m
2013
£m
The average number of employees during the year was:
Management and administration 43 40
Distribution and marketing — 11
 43 51
Aggregate employment costs
2014
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 3.3 4.2
Social security costs 0.4 0.6
Share-based payments 0.4 1.1
Pension costs 0.6 0.9
4.7 6.8
The remuneration of individual Directors is detailed on pages 80 and 81 . 140
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Notes to the Company Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE COMP ANY ACCOUNTS
4 Share based payments
The Company operates share-based payment schemes including the Save As You Earn (SAYE) and the Long Term Incentive  
Plan (LTIP).
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread 
over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair values are calculated using an 
appropriate option pricing model. The profit and loss account charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of 
vesting based on non-market performance related criteria.
All profit and loss account charges relating to options held by members of other Group companies are charged to the 
appropriate Group company.
The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS 20 Share Based Payments, is applied only to awards made 
after 7 November 2002. 
Details and relevant disclosures of the share-based payment schemes that existed during the year are given in note 7 of the 
Group accounts.
Number and weighted average exercise prices of share options
In thousands of options
Weighted 
average
exercise 
price
2014
Number of 
options
2014
Weighted 
average
exercise 
price
2013
Number of 
options
2013
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8p 3,097 3p 2,397
Forfeited during the year 164p (4) n/a — 
Lapsed during the year 9p (224) 15p (550)
Exercised during the year 4p (1,822) 5p (373)
Granted during the year 8p 483 15p 1,623
Outstanding at the end of the year 11p 1,530 8p 3,097
Exercisable at the end of the year n/a — n/a — 
The options outstanding at 31 March 2014 have an exercise price in the range 0p to 235p and a weighted average contractual 
life of 3 years.
The total charge included in the profit and loss account in the year was £0.4 million (2013: £1 .1 million). Of the total charge, £0.4 
million (2013: £1 .0 million) related to equity-settled share schemes and £nil (2013: £0.1 million) related to cash-settled share 
schemes. Our Business
141
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
5 Pension schemes
The UK defined benefit scheme is described in note 8 of the Group accounts. The last actuarial valuation of the UK scheme 
was carried out as at 31 March 2010 and has been updated to 31 March 2014 by a qualified independent actuary in accordance 
with FRS 17 . The balance on the UK scheme is included within the balance sheet of RS Components Ltd, a subsidiary of 
Electrocomponents plc, as it is this company which employs the majority of the scheme members. As allowed by FRS 17 ,  
the balance has not been split between Electrocomponents plc and RS Components Ltd as it is not possible to do so 
on a consistent and reasonable basis. This disclosure therefore relates to the UK pension scheme rather than just the 
Electrocomponents plc portion of it.
There are no significant differences that have been identified as between IAS 19R (IFRS) and FRS 17 (UK GAAP).
The valuation of the scheme as at 31 March was:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Total market value of assets 384.9 384.3 
Present value of scheme liabilities (418.6) (396.7)
Deficit in the scheme recognised in RS Components Limited (33.7) (12.4)
6 Dividends
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts recognised in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 – 6.75p (2012: 6.75p) 29.5 29.5 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 – 5.0p (2013: 5.0p) 21.9 21 .8 
51.4 51 .3 
Proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 – 6.75p 29.5 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2014 and has not been included as a 
liability in these accounts.  
7 T angible fixed assets
Cost
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Computer 
systems
£m
T otal
£m
At 1 April 2013 21.5 9.2 0.5 31.2 
Additions —   —   —   —  
At 31 March 2014 21.5 9.2 0.5 31.2 
Depreciation
At 1 April 2013 5.7 9.2 0.4 15.3 
Charged in the year 0.3  —   —   0.3  
At 31 March 2014 6.0 9.2 0.4 15.6 
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 15.5  —  0.1 15.6 
At 31 March 2013 15.8  —  0.1 15.9 142
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE COMP ANY ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Company Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
7 T angible fixed assets continued
Net book value of land and buildings
2014
£m
2013
£m
Freehold land 4.6 4.6 
Freehold buildings 10.9 11 .2 
15.5 15.8 
All classes of tangible fixed assets are depreciated except freehold land.
Depreciation
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land. Other assets have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line 
basis at the following annual rates: 
Freehold buildings 2%
Warehouse systems 10%–20%
Plant and equipment 10%–20%
Computer equipment 20%–33%
Other office equipment 20%
8 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans are included in the balance sheet of the Company at the lower 
of cost and the expected recoverable amount. Any impairment is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Cost
Shares
£m
Loans
£m
T otal
£m
At 1 April 2013 188.1 127.5 300.2 
Additions 1.1  —  1.1 
Revaluation —  (7 .1) (7 .1)
At 31 March 2014 189.2 120.4 294.2
Provisions
At 1 April 2013 —  15.4 15.4 
Released in the year —   —   —  
At 31 March 2014 —  15.4 15.4 
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 189.2 105.0 294.2 
At 31 March 2013 188.1 96.7 284.8 
A list of the principal subsidiary undertakings held by the Company is disclosed in note 16 to the Group accounts. 
The cost of share-based incentives in respect of shares in the Company granted to employees of Group companies other than 
Electrocomponents plc, is treated as an increase in investments with the corresponding credit taken directly to reserves. In 
2014, this amounted to £1 .1 million (2013: £0.9 million). Our Business
143
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
9 Own shares
Own shares held
The Company’s own shares held by the Electrocomponents Employee Trust are deducted from shareholders’ funds until they 
vest unconditionally with employees as required by UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
At 31 March 2014, a total of 204,431 (2013: 337 ,059) ordinary shares in the Company were held by the Electrocomponents 
Employee Benefit Trust, all of which were under option to employees for a nominal consideration. During the year 239,000 
ordinary shares in the Company were purchased by the trustees (2013: 237 ,417), and 371,628 (2013: 308,775) were disposed of 
by the trustees. The market value of the shares at 31 March 2014 was £578,540 (2013: £846,018).
10  Debtors
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 5.3 58.4 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.5 2.6 
6.8 61 .0 
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Derivative asset 3.7 11 .8
Deferred tax asset (see note 13) 0.5 0.6
4.2 12.4 
1 1 Creditors
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 27 .9 39.7 
Accruals and deferred income 4.2 3.5 
32.1 43.2 
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Loans repayable after more than one year (see note 12) 131.4 168.0 
131.4 168.0 
12 Loans
2014
£m
2013
£m
Euro bank loans —  7 .6 
Sterling bank loans 10.0 24.6 
South African Rand bank loans 3.2 3.7 
US Dollar bank loans 23.9 26.3 
US Dollar Private Placement notes 94.3 105.8 
131.4 168.0 
Loans repayable in more than one but not more than two years 76.4   —  
Loans repayable in more than two but not more than five years 55.0 168.0 
131.4 168.0 
The bank loans are at variable rates of interest and are unsecured.  
Details of the US Dollar Private Placement notes are provided in note 21 of the Group accounts.  144
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > NOTES TO THE COMP ANY ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Company Accounts continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
13 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred 
taxation
£m
At 1 April 2013 0.3 
Profit and loss account (0.1)
At 31 March 2014 0.2 
Deferred taxation
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts provided:
Accelerated capital allowances 0.7 0.9 
Share schemes (0.5) (0.6)
 0.2 0.3
2014
£m
2013
£m
Disclosed as:
Deferred tax asset (note 10) (0.5) (0.6)
Deferred tax liability 0.7 0.9 
 0.2 0.3 
14 Lease commitments
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period. 
The benefits of rent-free periods and similar incentives are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over 
the period up to the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
At 31 March 2014 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring as follows:
Motor Vehicles Land and Buildings
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year 0.1  —  0.3 0.3 
Within two to five years —   —  1.2 1 .2 
0.1  —  1.5 1 .5 
15 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees in respect of bank facilities available to certain subsidiaries up to a maximum of £15.4 million (2013: £16.6 milion), of 
which £11 .3 million (2013: £10.3 million) had been drawn down by the end of the year.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the 
Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the 
Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will 
be required to make a payment under the guarantee.  Our Business
145
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
16 Share capital
2014
Number of
shares
2013
Number of
shares
2014
£m
2013
£m
Ordinary shares of 10p each  
Called up and fully paid: 
At 1 April 438,124,179 436,961,886 43.8 43.7
New share capital subscribed 1,462,277 1,162,293 0.2 0.1
At 31 March 439,586,456 438,124,179 44.0 43.8
All of the new share capital subscribed in 2014 related to the exercise of share options. 
17  Reserves
Retained earnings
Share
premium 
account
£m
Own shares
held
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Profit and 
loss
account
£m
T otal
£m
At 1 April 2013 40.3 (1 .1) 1 .0 154.8 195.0 
Profit for the year —   —   —  49.8 49.8 
Dividends paid —   —   —  (51 .4) (51 .4)
Equity-settled transactions —   —   —  1.5 1 .5
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 1 .2 1 .0  —  (1 .1) 1 .1 
Own shares acquired —  (0.6) —   —  (0.6)
At 31 March 2014 41.5 (0.8) 1.0 153.7 195.4 
The own shares held reserve represents the cost of shares in Electrocomponents plc purchased in the market and held by the 
Electrocomponents Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes.
18  Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit for the year 49.8 12.8 
Dividends paid (51.4) (51 .3)
Own shares acquired (0.6) (0.5)
Equity-settled transactions 1.5 2.0 
Shares allotted in respect of share awards 1.3 0.2 
Net (reduction) increase in equity 0.6 (36.8)
Equity shareholders’ funds at the beginning of the year 238.8 275.6 
Equity shareholders’ funds at the end of the year 239.4 238.8  146
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Five Y ear Record
Year ended 31 March
£m 2014
2013
as restated* 2012 2011 2010
Revenue 1,273.1 1,235.6 1,267.4 1,182.2 972.6 
Operating profit 106.1 92.3 128.1 119.8 80.8 
Pension changes/reorganisation (income) costs — 7.4 —— (1 .6)
Headline operating profit 106.1 99.7 128.1 119.8 79.2 
Net financial expense (5.0) (5.6) (5.8) (5.8) (4.8)
Profit before tax 101.1 86.7 122.3 114.0 76.0 
Pension changes/reorganisation (income) costs — 7.4 —— (1 .6)
Headline profit before tax 101.1 94.1 122.3 114.0 74.4 
Tax (29.6) (27 .3) (37 .4) (35.8) (23.4)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders 71.5 59.4 84.9 78.2 52.6 
Basic earnings per share 16.3p 13.6p 19.5p  18.0p  12.1p 
Free cash flow 57 .7 49.3 52.7 57.4 71.9 
Non-current assets 342.7 361.5 349.1 333.0 349.3 
Current assets 482.6 498.2 501.9 456.1 372.7 
Current liabilities (217 .4) (221 .4) (225.0) (224.3) (190.6)
Non-current liabilities (243.6) (258.7) (260.0) (229.5) (228.3)
Net assets 364.3 379.6 366.0 335.3 303.1 
Number of shares in issue:
Weighted average (excluding own shares held) 439.1 437.8 436.1 435.3 435.1 
Year end 439.6 438.1 437.0 435.7 435.4 
Dividend per share (pence) 11.75 11.75 11.75 11.5 11.0 
Average number of employees 6,212 6,307 6,340 5,784 5,556 
Share price at 31 March (pence) 283.0 251.0 247.8 267.3 220.0 
*Restated for the changes in IAS 19R Employee Benefits. For further details refer to Note 1 to the Group accounts on page 102.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > FIVE YEAR RECORD Our Business
147
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
REGISTERED OFFICE
Electrocomponents plc 
International Management Centre 
8050 Oxford Business Park North  
Oxford OX4 2HW  
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 1865 204000 
Fax: +44 1865 207400 
www.electrocomponents.com
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
Registrar
If you have any questions about your shareholding in the 
Company, please contact our Registrar: Equiniti Ltd, Aspect 
House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, 
United Kingdom. Telephone 0871 384 2158 (+44 121 415 7047 
from outside the UK). Lines are open between 8.30am and 
5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding UK bank holidays. Calls 
cost 8p per minute, plus network extras.
Shareview
To access online information about your shareholdings visit 
www.shareview.co.uk. The website also provides information 
useful to the management of investments together with an 
extensive schedule of frequently asked questions. In order to 
view your shareholdings the shareholder reference number is 
required which can be found at the top of the share certiﬁcate 
or on the last dividend tax voucher.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Should you wish to reinvest your dividends in the Company, 
you can take advantage of our DRIP . It will allow you to use your 
cash dividend to buy more Electrocomponents shares in the 
market. Y ou will need to complete a DRIP application form and 
return it to Equiniti. This can be found, together with plan terms 
and conditions, at www.shareview.co.uk or on our website at 
www.electrocomponents.com/investor-centre/shareholder- 
information/faqs. Alternatively, please contact Equiniti on the 
number given above, and details and a form will be sent to you.
Share price information
The latest information on Electrocomponents plc share price 
is available on our website www.electrocomponents.com.
Investor relations app
The Company offers an app offering instant online and ofﬂine 
access, free of charge, to the Company’s latest ﬁnancial and 
corporate information on the Apple iPad and iPhone. Details 
are available on our website at www.electrocomponents.com/
investor-centre.
SHARE FRAUD WARNING
Fraudsters use persuasive and high pressure tactics to lure 
investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or 
non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for 
an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in 
this way you will probably lose your money.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) about share fraud each year, with victims losing an 
average of £20,000.
How to avoid share fraud
 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely 
to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell 
shares.
 Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the 
person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
 Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk 
to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised 
by the FCA.
 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised 
firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
 Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you 
want to call it back.
 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have 
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out 
of date.
 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.fca.
org.uk/scams.
 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised 
firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
 Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money.
 Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Report a scam
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using 
the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, 
where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline  
on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you  
should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > REGISTERED OFFICE, ADVISERS AND FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Registered office, advisers and 
financial calendar 148
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > REGISTERED OFFICE, ADVISERS AND FINANCIAL CALENDAR
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Announcement of results
The results of the Group are normally published at the 
following times:
Half-year results for the six months to 30 September in mid 
November.
Preliminary announcement for the year to 31 March in late 
May.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 31 March  
in mid June.
Dividend payments
Our current policy is to make dividend payments at the  
following times: 
Interim dividend in January and ﬁnal dividend in July.
2014 ﬁnal dividend: 
Ex-dividend date: 25 June 
Record date: 27 June 
Annual General Meeting: 24 July 
Dividend paid: 29 July
ADVISERS
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
Investment bankers
Citigroup 
Citigroup Centre 
33 Canada Square 
London E14 5LB
Registrars and transfer ofﬁce
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House  
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Solicitors
Linklaters LLP  
One Silk Street 
London EC2Y 8HQ
Stockbroker
UBS 
1 Finsbury Avenue 
London EC2M 2PP
Financial PR advisors
Tulchan Communications LLP 
85 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1AE
Remuneration consultants
Kepler Associates  
60 T rafalgar Square 
London WC2N 5DS
Registered office, advisers and 
financial calendar continued GET MORE ONLINE
Access the latest shareholder information
 Updates via email
 Latest share price
 Corporate governance
 Analysts
View archive information
 Company reports
 Company presentations
 Results and trading updates
 Video library
Shareholder services
 Register online
 Shareview
 FAQs
United Kingdom
UK 
rswww.com
Global exports 
www.rsdelivers.com
Continental Europe
Austria 
www.rs-components.atBelgium 
www.rsonline.be
Czech Republic 
www.rscomponents.cz
Denmark 
www.rsonline.dk
France 
rswww.fr
Germany 
www.rsonline.de
Hungary 
www.rscomponents.hu
Ireland 
rswww.ie
Italy 
rswww.it
Netherlands 
www.rsonline.nl
Norway 
www.rsonline.no
Poland 
www.rspoland.com
Portugal 
www.rsportugal.com
Spain 
www.rsonline.es
Sweden 
www.rsonline.se
Switzerland 
www.rsonline.ch
North America
Canada 
www.alliedelec.com
USA 
www.alliedelec.com
Asia Pacific
Australia 
www.rsaustralia.com
Chile 
www.rschile.cl
People’s Republic of China 
www.rsprc.com
Hong Kong 
www.rshongkong.com
India 
www.rsindia.com
Japan 
rswww.co.jp
Malaysia 
www.rsmalaysia.com
New Zealand 
www.rsnewzealand.com
Philippines 
www.rsphilippines.com
Singapore 
www.rssingapore.com
South Africa 
www.rssouthafrica.com
South Korea 
www.rscomponents.kr
T aiwan 
www.rstaiwan.com
Thailand 
www.rsthailand.com
PRINCIP AL LOCA TIONS
International Management Centre
8050 Oxford Business Park North 
Oxford OX4 2HW 
Tel: +44 1865 204000 
Fax: +44 1865 207400
www.electrocomponents.com
For more information and the latest news visit:  
www. electrocomponents.com
To view our online Annual Report 2014 visit: 
electrocomponents.annualreport2014.com 23079.04 - Proof 1 -30 May 2014 3:37 PM
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
Electrocomponents plc
International Management Centre
8050 Oxford Business Park North
Oxford OX4 2HW
Tel: +44 1865 204000
www.electrocomponents.com
Electrocomponents Front AR 2013.indd   1 02/06/2014   09:24:38
