 A global specialty chemicals company
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Elementis plc
10 Albemarle Street
London W1S 4HH, UK
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7408 9300
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7493 2194
www.elementisplc.com
Elementis plc
Annual report and accounts
2013
8069_Elementis_AR12_(cover)_AW_DRf3.indd   1 18/03/2014   10:25  9
countries
 30+
locations
 1,300+
employees
Who we are 
Elementis plc is a global specialty 
chemicals company with operations 
worldwide that serve customers in 
North and Latin America, Europe and 
Asia in a wide range of markets and 
sectors. The Company has a premium 
listing in the UK on the London Stock 
Exchange and is a member of the 
FTSE 250 and FTSE4Good Indices.
  E x e c u t i v e m a n a g e m e n t 
headquarters
 Corporate head offi ce
 Specialty Products
 Chromium
 Surfactants
What we do 
The Company comprises three businesses:  Specialty Products,  
Chromium and Surfactants.  Both Specialty Products and Chromium
hold leading market positions in their chosen sectors.  Elementis
employs over 1,300 people at more than 30 locations worldwide.
Specialty Products provides high value functional additives to the 
decorative and industrial coatings, personal care and oilfi eld drilling 
markets that improve the fl ow characteristics and performance of its 
customers’ products or production processes.
Chromium is a leading producer of chromium chemicals that make
its customers’ products more durable.
Surfactants manufactures a wide range of surface active ingredients
and products that are used as intermediates in the production of
chemical compositions.
Why invest in Elementis?
• Clear strategy to grow the Specialty Products business and utilise
a strong balance sheet to reinvest in growth and finance returns to 
shareholders (special dividend programme in place).
• Solid financial track record with well managed businesses that
are profitable and cash generative.
• Broad differentiated product portfolio that is underpinned by 
proprietary technology, strong customer relationships and
supported by innovation, know how and technical expertise.
• Operating in high margin, segmented markets and emerging 
economies, where products have many applications and 
diverse end users, and local market presence is supported by
strong global infrastructure.
• Company has strong governance and risk management 
controls and maintains a high standard of business conduct, 
ethics and corporate responsibility.
At a glance
Cautionary statement:
The Annual Report and Accounts for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2013, as contained in this document (‘Annual Report’), contain information 
which viewers or readers might consider to be forward looking statements relating to or in respect of the fi nancial condition, results, operations or 
businesses of Elementis plc. Any such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. There are many 
factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any such forward looking statements. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profi t forecast.
Our global footprint
Design and production: 
CarnegieOrr +44(0)207 610 6140
www.carnegieorr.com
The paper used in this Report is 
derived from sustainable sources
Corporate information 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 97 
Company Secretary Auditors  
Wai Wong KPMG Audit Plc 
Registered office Joint Corporate Brokers  
10 Albemarle Street UBS Investment Bank 
London N+1 Singer 
W1S 4HH  
UK 
Registered number  
3299608  
Financial calendar 
 
25 February 2014 Preliminary announcement of final results for the year ended 31 December 2013 
24 April 2014 Annual General Meeting and First Interim Management Statement 
30 April 2014 Ex-dividend date for final and special dividends for 2013 payable on ordinary shares 
02 May 2014 Record date for final and special dividends for 2013 payable on ordinary shares 
30 May 2014 Payment of final and special dividends for 2013 on ordinary shares 
29 July 2014* Interim results announcement for the half year ending 30 June 2014 
10 September 2014* Ex-dividend date for interim dividend for 2014 payable on ordinary shares 
12 September 2014* Record date for interim dividend for 2014 payable on ordinary shares  
03 October 2014* Payment of interim dividend for 2014 on ordinary shares 
31 October 2014* Second Interim Management Statement  
* provisional date  
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting of Elementis plc will be held on 24 April 2014 at 11.00 a.m. at The Royal Institution of Great Britain, 21 Albemarle Street, 
London W1S 4BS. The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document. Details of the ordinary and special business of the Annual General 
Meeting are contained within the Notice.  
Principal offices 
 
Elementis plc 
10 Albemarle Street 
London 
W1S 4HH 
UK 
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7408 9300 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7493 2194 
Email: elementis.info@elementis.com 
Website: www.elementisplc.com 
Elementis Global 
Elementis Specialty Products 
Elementis Surfactants 
Elementis Chromium 
469 Old Trenton Road 
East Windsor 
NJ 08512 
USA 
Tel: +1 609 443 2000 
Fax: +1 609 443 2422 
Email: contactsus.web@elementis-na.com 
Website:  www.elementis.com  
  (Specialty Products and Surfactants)  
Email: chromium.usa@elementis.com 
Website: www.elementischromium.com 
  (Chromium) 
 
  Highlights
• Group earnings per share increased by 
6 per cent to 23.0 cents per share.
• Strong growth in Specialty Products:
 − Sales and operating profit* up 10 per cent.
 − Double digit sales growth in personal care 
and oilfield drilling.
• Another year of excellent cash generation:
 − Net cash position increased to $54.1 million.
• Total dividends for the year increased 
by 11 per cent to 13.93 cents per share:
 − Special dividend increased by 22 per cent.
Financial summary
2013 2012
restated**
change
Sales $776.8m $757.0m +3%
Operating profit $146.6m* $143.9m +2%
Profit before tax $136.0m* $133.4m +2%
Diluted earnings per share 23.0c 21.8c +6%
Operating cash flow $143.9m $117.2m +23%
Net cash $54.1m $44.0m +23%
Profit for the year $106.7m $100.3m
Basic earnings per share 23.3c 22.2c
Dividends to shareholders: 
– Interim dividend 2.57c 2.45c +5%
– Final proposed 5.50c 5.32c +3%
– Special dividend 5.86c 4.79c +22%
– Total for the year 13.93c 12.56c +11%
*  before exceptional items
**  restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard
 Contents 
IFC At a glance
 Strategic report
02 Chairman’s statement
04  Group Chief Executive’s 
overview
06  Our objectives, strategies 
and business model
08 Our businesses
12 Finance report
15  Key performance indicators
16  Risk management report
20  Corporate responsibility report
 Corporate governance
24  Board of directors and  
senior executives
2 6  Cha i r ma n ’ s le t t e r  
on governance
27  Corporate governance report
29  Audit Committee report
32  Nomination Committee report
33  Directors’ remuneration report
4 9  D i r e ct or s ’ r e p or t
5 1  D i r e ct or s ’ r e s p on si bi l it y 
statement
52  Independent auditors’ report
 Financial statements
5 4  C o n s o l i d a t e d i n c o m e 
statement
5 4  C o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t  
of comprehensive income
55 Consolidated balance sheet
56  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
57  Consolidated cash flow 
statement
58  Notes to the Consolidated 
financial statements
89  Parent company statutory 
accounts
90  Notes to the company financial 
statements of Elementis plc
 Shareholder information
94 Glossary
95 Five year record
96 Shareholder services
97 Corporate information
97 Financial calendar
97 Annual General Meeting
97 Principal offices
Navigating the Annual Report 
Key questions/areas of focus Where you can find the information
At a glance  
(IFC)
Highlights and 
financial 
summary (p1)
Chairman’s 
statement (p2)
Group Chief 
Executive’s 
overview (p4)
Our objectives, 
strategies and 
business model 
(p6)
Our businesses 
(p8)
Finance report 
(p12)
Key 
performance 
indicators (p15)
Risk 
management 
report (p16)
Corporate 
responsibility 
report (p20)
Corporate 
governance 
(p26)
Who is Elementis, what does it do and why?
How are the businesses structured and what markets do they serve?
What are the objectives and strategies for achieving these?
How is the Board structured and how does it influence the 
Company’s strategy and objectives?
What are the key business and financial highlights in 2013? 
How did the businesses perform in 2013?
What are the main trends and factors affecting (and those likely in 
the future to affect) the development, performance and position 
of the Company and its businesses?  
How are the Company’s future prospects described?
Where can I find more detailed information about each business?
What are the KPIs and how did the Company perform against them?
What are the most significant risks facing the Company?
Where can I find information about social and 
environmental matters? 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 01 Ian Brindle 
Chairman
In 2013 Elementis achieved another year of earnings growth and good 
progress. The main focus of our growth strategy remains the Specialty 
Products business and so it is gratifying to report that both sales and 
operating profit* in that business grew by 10 per cent in the year. This is 
all the more impressive when considered against the background of a 
challenging economic environment. The nature of this growth provides 
further evidence of the diversity and resilience of our business model 
and the progress that has been made in implementing our strategy. All 
of the main market segments and geographies making up the Specialty 
Products business contributed to the growth, driven by market share 
gains, new product launches and strategic acquisitions while at the 
same time operating margins were maintained, demonstrating the 
inherent quality of the business.
Cash flow generation continued to be a strong feature of the Group’s 
performance in 2013. The balance sheet net cash position at the end of 
the year increased by $10.1 million over the previous year to $54.1 million, 
despite paying $33.0 million for the Hi-Mar acquisition and making the 
first special dividend payment of $22.0 million. 
Group revenues in 2013 were $776.8 million compared to $757 .0 million 
in the previous year supported by the good growth in Specialty Products. 
As previously reported, Chromium sales were impacted by the timing of a 
maintenance shutdown in the early part of the year. Operating profit
* was 
$146.6 million compared to $143.9 million in the previous year and Group 
operating margin* was stable across the two years at 19 per cent. Diluted 
earnings per share improved by 6 per cent to 23.0 cents per share. 
Balance sheet
The Group continues to be in a robust financial position with net cash 
on the balance sheet at the year end, providing an appropriate platform 
to support future growth. During the year the Group refinanced its main 
borrowing facilities, agreeing a new $100 million facility for 5 years 
on improved terms with a syndicate of US, European and Asian banks. 
The deficit on Group retirement schemes, under IAS 19, also declined 
during the year from $137 .4 million to $99.3 million, due to a combination 
of favourable asset returns, Company contributions and increases in 
real bond yields, further improving the balance sheet.
Dividends
The Board is continuing with the dividend strategy announced in 2012, 
which is to pay out approximately one third of earnings, before exceptional 
items, each year in a combination of interim and final dividends. In addition 
a special dividend is paid each year of up to 50 per cent of the net cash 
balance at the year end, provided there are no immediate investment 
plans for that cash. Consequently, the Board is recommending a final 
dividend for 2013 of 5.50 cents per share (2012: 5.32 cents) and a special 
dividend of 5.86 cents per share or $27 .1 million (2012: 4.79 cents 
or $22.0 million). These will be paid on 30 May 2014 in pounds sterling  
at an exchange rate of £1 = $1.6674 (equivalent to a sterling amount of 
6.8130 pence per share), to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014. 
This brings the total dividends for the year to 13.93 cents per share 
(2012: 12.56 cents), representing an increase of 11 per cent over the 
previous year.
$776.8 million
Group revenue
13.93c
Total dividends per share for 2013
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 02
Chairman’s statement Health, safety and the environment
Our performance in this important area of our business continues to be of 
a high standard relative to the industry and showed an improvement over 
the previous year, with fewer incidents. Nevertheless, we remain extremely 
vigilant in monitoring and improving our processes and activities that 
impact upon the safety of our employees and the environment.
Board changes
We stated this time last year that we would be making changes to the 
Board during 2013, as part of our succession planning programme. 
Consequently, we welcomed Anne Hyland to the Board in June who 
replaced Chris Girling as Chairman of the Audit Committee when he 
retired at the end of July. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Chris for his financial guidance, pragmatic approach and excellent 
contribution over the years. 
Your Chairman Robert Beeston decided to retire at the end of July for 
personal reasons. Robert was Chairman for just under seven years 
and led the Board through a period in which the Company experienced 
significant positive change and the foundations of its growth strategy 
were laid. On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my sincere 
thanks to Robert for his leadership and wise counsel over the years. 
As a consequence of this development, we decided that further 
Board appointments would be put on hold until a new Chairman 
had been appointed.
In January of this year we were delighted to announce the appointment 
of Andrew Duff as Deputy Chairman and Chairman-Designate, effective 
from 1 April 2014. The Board succession programme will continue under 
Andrew’s chairmanship. 
During 2014 Kevin Matthews and I will have served on the Board for more 
than nine years but, subject to shareholder support, we intend to continue 
in office for another year in the current period of Board transition. Kevin 
Matthews’ appointment was renewed in February for another year and 
my appointment will also be renewed for another year in June. We will 
both retire and stand for re-election at the AGM in April. Whilst Kevin 
and I can no longer be considered independent under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code once nine years have been served, we will both 
continue to exercise the independent judgement which will provide 
continuity and stability to the Board during the process of change.
 
The Board’s process of refreshing its composition will continue this year. 
Governance
The Board considers that it has applied all the principles and provisions 
of the Corporate Governance Code in 2013. Further information about 
this and other aspects of our governance arrangements are set out in 
the Corporate governance report on page 26.
People
Our progress and achievements are only possible through the significant 
efforts and dedication of our employees around the world. I would 
therefore like to congratulate and thank them on behalf of the Board 
for their considerable successes during the year.
 
Outlook
The positive results and significant progress made by the Group in 2013, 
combined with a strong financial position, are further evidence that the 
Group is adopting the right strategy and has the appropriate resources to 
drive profitable growth and create value for all its stakeholders. The Board 
is therefore confident that the Group will continue to make progress.
 
Ian Brindle
Chairman
25 February 2014
* before exceptional items
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 03 cents %
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
20.8
18%
19% 19%
21.8 23.0
Group operating margin and EPS
2011 2012* 2013
15.2
15%
2010 
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
• Specialty Products:
 − 10 per cent growth in sales and operating profit* .
 − Hi-Mar and Watercryl acquisitions fully integrated and 
providing the anticipated synergy benefits.
 − Double digit growth in personal care and oilfield drilling.
 − Strong customer response to new decorative additives 
from recently commissioned New Martinsville plant.
• Strong cash flow – 22 per cent increase in special dividend.
Underlying everything we do is a constant focus on achieving increasingly 
higher levels of safety, operational and environmental performance. For the third 
consecutive year our safety and environmental performance improved around 
the globe. Our safety performance in 2013 was one of our best ever and, while 
we are encouraged by this positive trend, we know that even one incident is too 
many. Our strong safety culture and focussed efforts in improving process 
safety will help us progress towards our goal of incident free operations.
Elementis Specialty Products
Specialty Products provides solutions to its customers’ challenges through 
superior technical service, application support and technically advanced 
products. We are a key supplier of performance critical products to the 
coatings, oilfield and personal care markets and our business provides 
an ideal growth platform with its well balanced geographic exposure 
across mature and emerging economies. Specialty Products continued 
to successfully execute its growth strategy, delivering its best year ever 
in terms of sales and operating profit. This performance was driven by 
market segment share gains, new product introductions, synergistic bolt 
on acquisitions, stable margins and operational efficiency. We firmly believe 
that making our customers more successful makes us more successful and 
it is this customer centric philosophy that remains the cornerstone of our 
strategy for new product development and technology investments. It is 
also a key component of our acquisition criteria.
Innovation remains the vital platform from which to drive our continued 
success. Our R&D pipeline is stronger than ever and, importantly, our 
new products are delivering real value to our customers as well as to 
our bottom line. Our ability to consistently deliver innovative products 
has been a critical part of the Specialty Products growth strategy and 
performance improvements and we are confident that it will continue 
to be a key component of our future success.
Dear Shareholders,
2013 has been another excellent year for Elementis with sales, operating 
profit, operating cash flow and earnings per share all showing a positive 
trend. We were able to leverage our diversified and broadly balanced 
portfolio of activities to deliver another year of solid results. In addition to 
our strong financial performance, we continued building the foundation for 
sustained growth by successfully executing a number of strategic initiatives.
EPS* moved to a record level for the fourth consecutive year, helping to drive 
total shareholder return to more than 400 per cent over the same period. 
Additionally, we announced total dividends in 2013 of 13.93 cents per share, 
which represents an 11 per cent increase over the previous year and a 
threefold improvement over the past 4 years.
Throughout the year we continued to strengthen our business both 
organically and by acquisition. We introduced new products, built on 
existing and new applications and invested to meet our customers’ 
growing demands. Among the many accomplishments of 2013 were:
• Another record EPS performance.
• Stable operating margins.
  Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items (cents)
 Group operating margin before exceptional items (%)
*
  restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 04
Group Chief Executive’s overview
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive $m
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
26.2 44.0 54.1
Net cash/(debt)
2011 2012 2013
(79.3)
2010 
Each of the three Specialty Products segments – coatings, oilfield drilling 
and personal care – is strategically positioned to capitalise on one or more 
of the powerful global trends of a rapidly growing middle class in developing 
economies, the increasing longevity and urbanisation of the world’s 
population and deep water and unconventional drilling for oil and natural 
gas. With the global middle class expected to nearly double by 2020, and with 
85 per cent of this increase projected to come from faster growing emerging 
markets, we expect consumer preference to evolve towards Elementis 
products that are used in environmentally friendly high performance coatings. 
The growing global middle class is also enjoying greater life expectancy and is 
increasingly urban, creating significant opportunities for our innovative natural 
formulations in personal care. The increasing demand for energy around the 
world, and the relative environmental benefits of natural gas compared to 
coal, will drive activity in deep water and unconventional drilling. With over 
20 years of experience in cutting edge technology and strong customer 
relationships in the energy drilling sector, Elementis is ideally positioned to 
fully benefit from the anticipated continued robust growth in deep water 
and shale gas drilling. While most of the growth thus far has been in the US, 
we are participating in exciting opportunities in a number of other regions 
as horizontal drilling and fracturing technology start to jump continents.
For the last few years, Elementis has focussed its technical resources 
to capitalise on these trends of a growing middle class, the increasing 
longevity and urbanisation of societies around the world and increasing 
deep water and unconventional oilfield drilling. To that end, our technology 
group applied for patents on 70 per cent of new products launched 
in 2013 and we expect higher revenue growth and margins on these sales. 
I am confident that Elementis is uniquely qualified to develop and supply 
innovative products and solutions that will allow our customers to take 
full advantage of the opportunities created by these trends. It is this unique 
and enviable position that convinces me that we are only beginning to 
unlock the earnings and growth potential of this business.
Specialty Products’ global capabilities allow us to develop and leverage 
solutions for customers around the world. Already, approximately  
40 per cent of its revenue comes from China, ASEAN countries and 
Latin America. In addition, our strong local presence in these fast growing 
regions allows us to truly understand our customers and to anticipate their 
specific needs in coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling applications. 
We expect this combination of Specialty Products’ broad global capability 
and strong local management to deliver material growth for Elementis.
Elementis Surfactants
The Group has continued to benefit from improvements in the quality of the 
product portfolio of the Surfactants business and, as a result, operating 
profit
* improved 17 per cent versus the previous year, on similar sales.  
  Net cash/(debt) ($m)
* before exceptional items
The business is located in Delden, the Netherlands, and shares its 
production facility with Specialty Products which represents an increasing 
proportion of the site’s output. The strategy remains to utilise more of the 
facility’s capacity over time to manufacture higher margin products sold  
by the Specialty Products business, achieving specialty chemicals 
margins. The strategy is succeeding as currently greater than 50 per cent 
of the facility’s sales are generated from products manufactured for the 
Specialty Products business. The Delden team continues to do an 
excellent job of optimising business performance while executing this 
capacity transition strategy.
Elementis Chromium 
Elementis Chromium is one of the largest suppliers of chromium chemicals 
in the world. From its efficient, flexible and scalable operations located in 
the US, it delivers a full range of chromium based products globally to a 
variety of end markets including timber treatment, metal finishing, refractory, 
metal alloy and leather tanning applications. The business is able to provide 
its North American customers with a differentiated and highly valued 
closed loop delivery model, providing a long term competitive advantage. 
Elementis Chromium prides itself on maintaining the highest global 
standards for its environmental, health and safety systems.
Elementis Chromium’s strategic focus is to deliver stable earnings and cash 
flow. The business has successfully executed this strategy, demonstrating 
consistently strong revenues, operating profit, margins and cash flow. 
This validates the stability and resilience of the business operating model 
over a wide range of economic and market conditions. The business got off 
to a slow start due to the impact of a scheduled kiln maintenance shutdown 
in the first quarter, but recovered as the year progressed in spite of a weaker 
global trading environment outside of North America. The Chromium 
team delivered $56.4 million of cash on operating profits
* of $55.1 million, 
demonstrating once again the strong cash generation capability of this 
business. Our intention is to continue to utilise the cash from Elementis 
Chromium to preferentially invest in growing the Specialty Products 
business and rewarding shareholders with enhanced dividends.
 
Summary
I am extremely proud of the high performance culture we have built at 
Elementis and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our 
employees for their dedication and tireless commitment.
It is with tremendous gratitude that we bid a fond farewell to Robert Beeston, 
who retired from the Elementis Board at the end of July 2013 having served as 
Chairman of the Board from 2006 to 2013. He is a true gentleman and his 
thoughtful leadership and unwavering support have been truly appreciated. 
While we anticipate 2014 to be a period of modest progress in global GDP 
growth, our internal performance targets and growth objectives are not 
predicated on an improvement in overall market conditions. Based on our 
strategic positioning, focus on innovation, strong product portfolio and 
healthy product pipeline, we remain confident in our ability to deliver 
profitable growth across a broad range of economic scenarios.
In closing, on behalf of the entire Elementis team I would like to sincerely 
thank our shareholders and customers for your support. We look towards 
the future with confidence and an unrelenting commitment to reward you  
for the confidence you have placed in us.
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
25 February 2014
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 05 Group
Deliver annual operating plans and year on year sustainable  
earnings growth.
Outperform the FTSE 250 Index for total shareholder return over 
each successive annual and 3 year period.
Maintain a strong balance sheet to provide financial stability and 
support investments in growth.
Manage key corporate and business risks and maintain high 
standards of business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
Specialty Products
Grow the Specialty Products business profitably.
Chromium
Manage the Chromium business to deliver stable earnings and cash flow.
Surfactants
Transition the Surfactants product portfolio to higher margin 
specialty additives.
Group
Offer added value, high quality solutions tailored to our customers 
with strong technical support.
Manage businesses to deliver strong financial performance and cash flow.
Maintain well invested facilities, operational excellence, strong HSE 
performance and comply with laws and regulations. 
Specialty Products
Growth from new products, markets, applications and geographies 
and complementary bolt on acquisitions. 
Offer broad, differentiated and patent protected product portfolio, 
innovation and new product development.
Chromium
Optimise capacity utilisation and operating efficiencies, manage cost 
base, serve higher margin markets and maintain margin discipline. 
Surfactants
Optimise profitability, operating efficiencies and commercial focus.
Key sales channels
Specialty Products
Long term customer relationships with global MNEs as well as 
sales to regional and local customers.
Global sales platform, solid infrastructure with cross-selling 
opportunities.
Manufacturing facilities, R&D centres and technical service labs 
in the Americas, Europe and Asia to support all our key markets.
Chromium
Sales to the North American market while selectively supplying 
the Latin American, European and Asian markets. 
Surfactants
Long term customer relationships with global MNEs as well as 
sales to regional and local customers.
Key inputs
Clear strategies and business priorities, leadership from the top 
and robust governance and risk management frameworks, policies 
and procedures. 
Passionate and committed global workforce and an embedded 
culture of performance and customer service.
Long term customer relationships built on trust, strong focus on 
technical expertise, product innovation and providing a differentiated 
service to diverse markets.
Excellent commercial, procurement and supply chain teams 
supported by strong global infrastructure.
Financial and operating discipline, well maintained facilities 
and strong functional support teams.
Key products
Specialty Products
Rheological modifiers, specialty additives, organoclays, defoamers, 
adhesion promoters, waxes and resins, flow and levelling additives, 
colourants and pigments, dispersing/wetting/slip and coalescing 
agents, and lanolin and other natural oil derivatives.
Chromium
Chromic acid, chromic oxide, sodium dichromate and chrome 
sulphate, with customised delivery system.
Surfactants
Wide range of surface active ingredients and products used as 
intermediates in the production of chemical compositions.
      Key markets
    Major regions supplied
    North and Latin America, Europe and Asia.
Major segments/applications
Specialty Products
Industrial and decorative coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling.
Chromium
Metal finishing, super alloys, timber treatment, leather tanning, 
pigments, ceramics and refractory. 
Surfactants
Oilfield production chemicals, construction chemicals, textiles and 
leather, household, plastics, resins and other niche markets.
Our business model
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 06
Our objectives, strategies and business model
Our objectives Our strategies How this section links in with other sections of the Annual Report
Areas of focus Where you can find the information
Chairman’s 
statement (p2)
Group Chief 
Executive’s 
overview (p4)
Our objectives, 
strategies and 
business model 
(p6)
Our businesses 
(p8)
Key 
performance 
indicators (p15)
Risk 
management 
report (p16)
Corporate 
responsibility 
report (p20)
Corporate 
governance 
(p26)
Audit 
Committee 
report (p29)
Nomination 
Committee 
report (p32)
Directors’ 
remuneration 
report (p33)
Development, performance and position
Future prospects
Strategy, objectives and business model
Key performance indicators
Principal risks and uncertainties
Safety, environmental, employee and other social 
matters (including human rights)
Gender diversity
Governance
Elementis is a global specialty chemicals company. Its largest and 
most profitable business, Elementis Specialty Products, is the core 
of our growth strategy and has the following key characteristics:
• Operating in diverse and highly segmented markets. 
• Supplying products that are critical ingredients in its customers’ 
formulations and essential to their performance, whilst 
representing a small proportion of the overall cost.
• Having a broad, differentiated and patent protected product 
portfolio, coupled with innovation and new product development.
• Long term relationships with customers that are based on 
mutual trust and collaboration, supported by strong technical 
service and expertise. 
• High sustainable operating margins and return on 
operating capital.
In addition, Elementis is the owner of the only rheology grade 
hectorite mine in the world, which provides a key raw material and 
source of competitive advantage. Elementis Chromium supplies 
chromium chemicals that make its customers’ products more 
durable and Elementis Surfactants supplies a wide range of 
surface active ingredients. 
 
Common to all three businesses are the following:
• Profitable, strong cash generation and high level of return 
on capital.
• Well invested manufacturing facilities, operational excellence 
and a broad product offering to a wide range of customers 
and markets.
• Provision of a differentiated service to customers, offering 
tailored solutions and product innovation.
• Strong leadership, clear business strategies and high 
performance cross functional business teams, underpinned by 
robust governance and risk management frameworks, as well 
as a culture of maintaining high standards of business conduct, 
ethics and corporate responsibility.
Ultimately, the strategy of the Company is to operate its portfolio of 
manufacturing assets and exploit its proprietary technologies and 
know how to supply products and services to customers, thereby 
creating value for shareholders. Key to achieving the above is the 
allocation and management of human and capital resources, as 
well as accessing and leveraging the appropriate market channels 
and supply chains. All of the above elements are an essential part 
of the process that forms our overall business activities in terms of 
the inputs, processes and outputs.
 …and why?
The aspects of our business model most important to the 
preservation and creation of value can be summarised as follows:
•  Clear objectives and business strategies.
• Strong leadership, governance and risk management, 
supported by Group policies, processes and controls.
• Intellectual property, innovation and new product development.
• Relationships with customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders based on trust and collaboration.
•  Strong financial resources, balance sheet and cash generation. 
• Well invested manufacturing assets that are managed to 
deliver optimal performance.
• The passion, attitude, commitment and work ethic of all our 
employees around the world. 
• Our global infrastructure and ability to access market channels.
• Culture of compliance with laws and regulations and 
maintaining high standards of business conduct, ethics 
and corporate responsibility. 
The things that matter most to our ability to be successful
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 07
Who is Elementis, what does it do… Group performance Elementis Specialty Products
Revenue
Revenue
2012
$million
Effect of
exchange
rates
$million
Increase/
(decrease)
2013
$million
Revenue
2013
$million
Specialty Products 458.7 5.7 38.4 502.8
Chromium 240.1 – (25.3) 214.8
Surfactants 72.5 2.1 (2.4) 72.2
Inter-segment (14.3) – 1.3 (13.0)
757.0 7.8 12.0 776.8
Operating profit
Operating
profit
2012
$million
Effect of
exchange
rates
$million
Increase/
(decrease)
2013
$million
Operating
profit
2013*
$million
Specialty Products 90.1 2.5 6.5 99.1
Chromium 62.8 – (7.7) 55.1
Surfactants 4.8 0.1 0.7 5.6
Central costs (13.8) 0.5 0.1 (13.2)
143.9 3.1 (0.4) 146.6
* before exceptional items
Greg McClatchy
President of Elementis Specialty  
Products and Elementis Surfactants
Our performance
2013 2012
Sales $502.8m $458.7m
Operating profit* $99.1m $90.1m
Operating margin* 20% 20%
ROCE** 38% 40%
* before exceptional items
**  before tax and excluding goodwill
Split of sales revenue
Segment % Geographic %
52
22
15
11
32
29
29
10
Spit of Sales Revenue 2012 (%)
Geographic
55
22
9
14
Segment
Industrial coatings
Decorative coatings
Oileld drilling
Personal care
North America
Asia Pacic
 Europe
 Rest of the world Spit of Sales Revenue 2012 (%)
Geographic
55
22
9
14
Segment
Industrial coatings
Decorative coatings
Oileld drilling
Personal care
North America
Asia Pacic
 Europe
 Rest of the world
08 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Our businesses Key facts
• We account for 65 per cent of Group sales and 68 per cent of 
Group operating profit* in 2013.
• We are based in 27 locations around the world, in North and 
Latin America, Europe and Asia, and our sales are broadly split 
between North America, Europe and Asia.
• We have over 900 employees globally, 12 manufacturing facilities, 
3 research centres of excellence (including a process development 
facility), 6 technical service centres and 11 dedicated sales offices.
• Our top ten customers account for less than 24 per cent of total sales.
• In each key segment, the business has many competitors from 
multinationals to smaller privately owned businesses.
What we do
• We provide high value functional additives to the decorative and 
industrial coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling markets that 
improve the flow characteristics and performance of our customers’ 
products or production processes.
• We have significant expertise in the science of rheology which, in its 
simplest form, means our technology imparts thickness and viscosity 
control. For example, paint without rheological additives would have 
the consistency of water but paint with our additives is smooth, 
homogeneous and has a controlled, even spread on a surface.
• The same requirements for rheological additives exist in personal 
care products, such as creams and lotions, and in oilfield drilling 
applications, providing viscosity control to thicken and suspend 
solids in drilling formulations and to stabilise stimulation packages 
used in the drilling process.
How and where we do it 
For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our 
customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the 
'Business model' section on page 6.
A map of our global locations is in the ‘At a glance’ section on the Inside 
Front Cover.
Key product applications
• Decorative coatings: homes, offices and similar environments.
• Industrial coatings: protective applications in automotive, 
containers, furniture, flooring, marine, plastics and construction.
• Oilfield: drilling and fracturing fluids utilised in oil and gas 
extraction activities.
• Personal care: antiperspirants, nail polish, mascara, make-up, 
eye shadow, lipsticks, creams, lotions and suncare products.
• Construction: concrete, plasters, mortars, renderings, stuccos, 
flooring systems and building adhesives.
Key sector drivers
• Decorative coatings: regulatory trend towards low VOC, 
increasing consumer sophistication in emerging markets.
• Industrial coatings: increasing demand from customers for high 
performance coatings that enhance their products and exposure 
to higher growth emerging markets.
• Oilfield drilling: exposure to shale oil and gas.
• Personal care: increasingly sophisticated consumer demand 
and emerging market development.
2013 Performance
Specialty Products’ sales in 2013 increased by 10 per cent compared 
to the previous year, or 8 per cent on a constant currency basis. The 
business continued to benefit from strong, diverse market positions 
in high growth areas, new product introductions and complementary 
acquisitions. Overall pricing and margins remained stable throughout 
the year, demonstrating the resilience of the business and the high value 
added nature of the product portfolio.
• In North America sales of coatings additives improved by 5 per cent, 
with acquisitions contributing 9 per cent to the year on year result. The 
underlying result was influenced by the fact that the first half of 2013 had 
a particularly strong comparative period in 2012. More normal trading 
patterns were experienced in the second half of the year and sales in that 
period improved by 3 per cent. Sales volumes, excluding acquisitions, 
were similarly impacted by these demand patterns and hence, while full 
year volumes were similar to the previous year, volumes in the second half 
grew by 9 per cent. Another feature of the North American coatings sales 
in 2013 was the increasing percentage of additives for decorative coatings 
compared to industrial coatings, as a result of new innovative product 
launches and the introduction of the new manufacturing plant in New 
Martinsville, West Virginia, at the start of the year. Additives for decorative 
applications have similar margins to industrial products but often have 
lower selling prices, hence the shift towards decorative products naturally 
led to the growth in sales volumes being higher than sales dollars. 
 
In Europe sales improved by 1 per cent, with currency contributing  
2 per cent to the year on year comparison. The underlying economic 
activity in the region was more stable in 2013 but showed no material 
growth. Despite this, volumes were 5 per cent higher as the business 
was able to introduce new decorative products, improve market share 
with key customers and increase sales to Eastern Europe and the 
Middle East to deliver a solid performance with stable margins. 
 
Coatings sales in Asia Pacific improved by 8 per cent, with volumes up 
1 1 per cent, as the business continued to deliver growth in excess of the 
underlying GDP for the region, with China representing almost 70 per cent 
of regional sales. Capital investments to support new products, 
exceptional technical service and manufacturing capabilities and an 
extensive sales network enabled the business to continue to gain 
market share in China and the rest of Asia Pacific. 
 
In Latin America sales improved by 48 per cent, largely due to the positive 
impact of the Watercryl acquisition in Brazil towards the end of 2012. The 
acquisition was fully integrated during 2013 and sales opportunities inside 
and outside of Brazil are providing early synergy benefits. Underlying 
sales improved by 4 per cent, with volumes up 5 per cent in the region.
• In Personal Care sales improved by 26 per cent as the business 
benefited from a variety of new hectorite formulations, the launch of 
the Rheoluxe range of products, expansion into emerging markets, 
particularly Asia and Latin America, and good growth in aerosol 
antiperspirants and colour cosmetics.
• Oilfield drilling sales were 14 per cent higher than the previous year, 
with volumes up 15 per cent, driven by strong fracturing and cold 
climate drilling in the US and Canada and the return of deep water 
drilling programmes in the Gulf of Mexico. Drilling activity in North 
America returned to more normal levels in 2013, having experienced a 
temporary slowdown in the second half of 2012 as inventory levels were 
corrected. Sales in the first half of the year were therefore similar to the 
previous year, while sales in the second half were 38 per cent higher.
Operating profit
* in 2013 was $99. 1 million compared to $90. 1 million in the 
previous year, an increase of 10 per cent, or 7 per cent excluding currency 
movements. Operating margin* remained consistent with last year, at  
20 per cent, demonstrating the inherent quality of the business in a period 
of strong sales growth and changes in sales mix. There were no material 
changes in overall raw material and energy costs compared to the previous 
year. Fixed costs, excluding acquisitions, increased by only 2 per cent, 
despite the introduction of a new manufacturing facility in the US and 
resource investments to support growth during the year, as strict cost 
management remained a key foundation of the business. Acquisitions 
contributed $1.2 million to the year on year increase in operating profit.
* before exceptional items
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 09 Dennis Valentino
President of Elementis Chromium 
Our performance
2013 2012
Sales $214.8m $240.1m
Operating profit* $55.1m $62.8m
Operating margin* 26% 26%
ROCE** 52% 65%
* before exceptional items
** before tax and excluding goodwill
Split of sales revenue
Segment % Geographic %
Key facts
• We account for 26 per cent of Group sales and 38 per cent of 
Group operating profit
* in 2013.
• We are the only domestic producer of chromium chemicals in the 
US and operate from two major facilities in Castle Hayne, North 
Carolina, and Corpus Christi, Texas, and three smaller processing 
facilities supplying local tanneries.
• We have over 240 employees, most of whom are located in the US.
• Our top ten customers account for less than 52 per cent of total sales.
• The business has many competitors from multinationals to smaller 
privately owned businesses.
What we do
• We provide chromium chemicals to customers that make their products 
more durable and are used in a wide range of sectors and applications.
• Our reputation for quality and operational excellence and our 
high levels of customer service and technical support are key 
differentiating factors that enable us to develop long term, 
mutually advantageous relationships with our customers.
58
18
8
16
SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 (%)
GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT
North America
Asia Pacic
 Europe
 Rest of the world
Metal nishing
Other
Timber treatment
Pigmentary
Leather tanning
SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 (%)
GEOGRAPHIC
55
22
9
14
SEGMENT
North America
Asia Pacic
 Europe
 Rest of the world
Industrial coatings
Decorative coatings
Oileld
Personal care
00%
00%
00%
00%
6
13
29
17
35
57
21
15
7
10 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Our businesses continued
Elementis Chromium How and where we do it 
For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our 
customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the 
‘Business model’ section on page 6.
A map of our global locations is in the ‘At a glance’ section on the Inside 
Front Cover.
Key products and applications
•   Chromic oxide: as a pigment in paints, decorative coatings, 
plastics, roofing tiles and ceramic tiles; in the construction of high 
temperature and abrasion resistant refractory brick for glass and 
fibreglass; and in the production of super alloy metals for use in 
aeroplane and land based turbines.
• Chromic acid: in plating metal and plastic to produce a strong, 
tarnish resistant chrome finish for appliances, automobiles and 
many other applications; and as a wood preservative for marine 
pilings, telegraph poles, landscape timbers and other industrial 
wood applications.
• Chrome sulphate: in tanning to produce high quality leathers for 
a wide range of end uses.
• Sodium dichromate: as an intermediate chemical to produce 
pigment for industrial coatings and traffic paint.
Key sector drivers
• Chromic oxide: construction, coatings, aircraft engines and 
gas turbines.
• Chromic acid: automotive, heavy/light machinery, construction 
and infrastructure.
• Chrome sulphate: beef consumption.
• Sodium dichromate: as above.
2013 Performance
Chromium sales in 2013 were 11 per cent lower than the previous year at 
$214.8 million. Sales volumes were 5 per cent lower than the previous year 
as a planned maintenance shutdown in the early part of the year reduced 
manufactured volumes. This was exacerbated by related pre-buying by 
customers towards the end of 2012, pulling some sales into that year. 
Regional sales continued to be influenced by the strategy of the business: 
operating with a fixed manufacturing volume and optimising the 
geographic and product sales mix to produce stable margins, earnings 
and cash flow. In 2013, sales volumes for leather tanning applications in 
North America continued to be soft as tanneries adjusted to lower herd 
sizes and sales to chrome sulphate converters outside of the US were 
curtailed. This reduction broadly matched the reduction in available 
volumes due to the maintenance shutdown. Hence sales volumes for 
other applications and for sales outside of North America were relatively 
stable compared to the previous year. Average selling prices in 2013 were 
6 per cent lower than the previous year although this was partially offset 
by lower raw material costs.
Operating profit
* for 2013 was $7 .7 million lower than the previous year at 
$55.1 million, largely due to the reduction in sales volumes, while operating 
margin* remained stable at 26 per cent. Raw material and energy costs 
trended lower during the year, leading to lower selling prices, while other 
fixed costs remained tightly controlled and made a positive contribution 
to the year on year comparison. Currency movements had no material 
impact on sales or operating profit as the majority of sales and costs 
in the business are denominated in US dollars.
Our performance
2013 2012
Sales $72.2m $72.5m
Operating profit* $5.6m $4.8m
Operating margin* 8% 7%
ROCE** 25% 25%
* before exceptional items
** before tax and excluding goodwill
Split of sales revenue
Segment % Geographic %
Key facts
• We account for 9 per cent of Group sales and 4 per cent of 
Group operating profit* in 2013.
• We share a manufacturing plant in Delden, the Netherlands, 
with Elementis Specialty Products.
• We employ over 140 employees at our Delden site.
• Our top ten customers represent 73 per cent of total sales.
• The business has many competitors from multinationals to 
smaller privately owned businesses.
What we do
• We are in the process of transitioning to more higher margin 
specialty additives.
• Our facility is equipped with both continuous and multi-purpose 
batch reactors for a variety of chemical processes which, together 
with our expertise, allow us to produce a wide range of complex 
products, customised to meet our customers’ requirements.
How and where we do it 
For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our 
customers are, and a list of our products and markets, refer to the 
‘Business model’ section on page 6.
A map of our global locations is in the ‘At a glance’ section on the Inside 
Front Cover.
2013 Performance
Sales in Surfactants in 2013 were broadly the same in dollar terms as the 
previous year, at $72.2 million, or 3 per cent lower on a constant currency 
basis. The majority of sales are denominated in euros. Sales volumes were 
8 per cent lower than the previous year, which is in line with the strategy 
to transition the Delden facility over time to produce more higher margin 
additives for Specialty Products. Average selling prices increased by  
4 per cent in response to higher raw material costs during the year. 
Operating profit* increased to $5.6 million compared to $4.8 million in the 
previous year, as the business team continued to focus on higher margin 
products and disciplined cost management during the transition process. 
Consequently operating margin improved from 7 per cent in the previous 
year to 8 per cent in 2013. 
45
26
18
8
4
82
10
7
1
SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 (%)
GEOGRAPHIC
55
22
9
14
SEGMENT
Europe
Rest of the world
 Asia Pacic
 North America
Industrial coatings
Decorative coatings
Oileld
Personal care
00%
00%
00%
00%
3
79
5
13
SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 (%)
GEOGRAPHIC
39
35
7
4
15
SEGMENT
Europe
Rest of the world
 Asia Pacic
 North America
Oileld production 
chemicals
Other
Textile & Leather
Water Treatment
Feed
* before exceptional items
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
Elementis Surfactants Brian Taylorson
Finance Director
Revenue
2013
$million
2012
$million
Specialty Products 502.8 458.7
Chromium 214.8 240.1
Surfactants 72.2 72.5
Inter-segment (13.0) (14.3)
776.8 757.0
Exceptional items
A number of items have been recorded under ‘Exceptional items’ in the 
2013 ‘Consolidated income statement’ by virtue of their size and/or one 
time nature, in order to provide a better understanding of the Group’s 
results. The net impact of these items on the Group profit for the year 
is a charge of $1.7 million, with an associated tax credit of $1.8 million. 
The items fall into three categories, as summarised below.
(Charge)/credit
Post
employment
benefits
Environmental
provisions Other Total
Specialty Products 1.1 (0.4)
–
0.7
Surfactants 2.2 (0.9)
–
1.3
Chromium (3.2) (6.3) (1.0) (10.5)
Central costs – 7.4 (0.6) 6.8
Total 0.1 (0.2) (1.6) (1.7)
Post employment benefits – net credit of $0.1 million
In 2013 the Group settled a 2005 claim made by a group of its Dutch 
pensioners and, as a result, released the balance of a provision made 
at the time the claim was lodged. Consequently, a credit of $3.3 million 
has been recorded in the current year.
Following the closure of the chromium plant at Eaglescliffe, UK, in 
2009 there remain a number of post employment payments to former 
employees that will continue for a period of time. The Group has concluded 
that it would be appropriate to make a provision for these payments under  
IAS 19 and has therefore recorded a charge of $3.2 million in the current year.
Operating profit
Operating
profit
$million
Exceptional
items
$million
2013
Underlying
operating
profit
$million
Operating
profit
$million
Exceptional
items
$million
2012
Underlying
operating
profit
$million
Specialty Products 99.8 (0.7) 99.1 90.1 – 90.1
Chromium 44.6 10.5 55.1 62.8 – 62.8
Surfactants 6.9 (1.3) 5.6 4.8 – 4.8
Central costs (6.4) (6.8) (13.2) (13.8) – (13.8)
144.9 1.7 146.6 143.9 – 143.9
Group results
Group sales in 2013 were $776.8 million compared to $757 .0 million 
in the previous year, an increase of 3 per cent or 2 per cent excluding 
currency movements. Strong sales growth was experienced in Specialty 
Products, helped by exposure to high growth emerging markets, new 
product launches, market share gains and two strategic acquisitions, while 
Chromium sales were lower due to the impact of a scheduled maintenance 
shutdown. Overall sales volumes for the Group improved, while pricing 
was relatively stable across Specialty Products and Surfactants, but 
lower in Chromium in response to lower raw material and energy costs.
Group operating profit
* was $146.6 million in 2013 compared to 
$143.9 million in 2012 and Group operating margin* was stable at 
19 per cent in each year. Improved earnings in both Specialty Products 
and Surfactants more than offset the lower earnings from Chromium 
and, overall, the Group benefited from growth in Specialty Products, 
stable margins and good cost control.
Currency hedging
Although a large proportion of the Group’s business is transacted in 
US dollars, the Group also transacts in other currencies, in particular 
euros, pounds sterling and Chinese renminbi. In order to reduce earnings 
volatility from these currency exposures, the Group takes out cash flow 
hedges each year where these are readily available. In 2013 overall 
currency movements were such that the net impact of these hedge 
transactions was not material to Group operating profit, while in 2012 
there was a credit of $1.2 million.
Central costs
Central costs are costs that are not identifiable as expenses of a particular 
business and comprise expenditures of the Board of directors and the 
corporate office. In 2013 central costs were lower than the previous year 
by $0.6 million, or 4 per cent, due to changes in variable compensation 
programmes and other structural cost savings.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12
Finance report Environmental provisions – net charge of $0.2 million
A number of structural changes were made to the Group’s provisions in 2013. 
First, a fixed term indemnity given by the Group to a third party in 1998 expired 
in 2013. As a result the related balance sheet provision has been released, 
creating a credit of $9.8 million. Second, during the year the closure plan for 
the Eaglescliffe site was finalised, in consultation with regulatory authorities, 
and adjustments were then made to the provision for closure costs. This 
resulted in a charge of $5.0 million. Third, the Group’s environmental 
provisions are calculated on a discounted basis, reflecting the time period 
over which spending is estimated to take place. Due to changes in those time 
periods, the Group concluded that it would be appropriate to reduce the 
discount rate being used and this resulted in a charge of $5.8 million. Finally, 
other adjustments to existing provisions resulted in a credit of $0.8 million.
Other adjustments – net charge of $1.6 million
In 2013 the Group exited a long term office lease, resulting in a charge of 
$0.6 million. The Group also increased its provision for a 2002 dispute 
relating to the filing of an industry report with the US EPA, resulting in a 
charge of $1.0 million.
Other expenses
Other expenses are administration costs incurred and paid by the Group’s 
pension schemes, which relate primarily to former employees of legacy 
businesses, and were $2.0 million in 2013 compared to $2.5 million in 
the previous year. Under the recently revised IAS 19 these costs are now 
required to be shown in the ‘Consolidated income statement’, rather than 
as part of the scheme deficit. In 2013 the costs were lower due to reduced 
spending by both the UK and Dutch schemes.
Net finance costs
2013 
$million
2012
restated
**
$million
Finance income 0.2 0.8
Finance cost of borrowings (2.5) (3.4)
(2.3) (2.6)
Net pension finance costs (4.5) (4.1)
Discount on provisions (1.8) (1.3)
(8.6) (8.0)
Net finance costs increased by $0.6 million in 2013 to $8.6 million, mainly due 
to modest increases in the financial cost of pension deficits and an increase 
in the discount charge on provisions. Net finance costs on borrowings and 
cash balances were lower by $0.3 million, at $2.3 million, as lower borrowing 
costs were offset by lower income from cash balances. Borrowing costs, 
which largely relate to arrangement and commitment fees on unutilised 
borrowing facilities, came down as a result of the refinancing of the Group’s 
main borrowing facility in 2013. Income from cash balances was lower than 
the previous year because, although the year end cash balance was higher 
than the previous year, the average cash balances held during the year 
were lower. Net pension finance expense was higher than the previous 
year because, under IAS 19, the charge is based on the deficit value at the 
beginning of the year and the opening deficit in 2013 was higher than in 2012. 
The increase in the discount charge on provisions is related to the changes in 
the basis of the discount rate as discussed in the section ‘Exceptional items’.
Taxation
Tax charge
$million
2013 
 Effective
 rate 
per cent $million
2012 
restated
**
Effective
 rate
 per cent
Before exceptional items 29.4 21.6 33.1 24.8
Exceptional items (1.8) (1.0) – –
Total 27.6 20.6 33.1 24.8
The tax charge of $27 .6 million (2012: $33. 1 million) represents an effective 
tax rate of 20.6 per cent (2012: 24.8 per cent) with the decrease in tax rate 
resulting from structural changes within the Group’s financing arrangements,  
as well as changes in the geographic mix of profits.
Earnings per share
Note 9 to the ‘Consolidated financial statements’ sets out a number of 
calculations of earnings per share. To better understand the underlying 
performance of the Group, earnings per share reported under IFRS is 
adjusted for items classified as exceptional.
Diluted earnings per share was 23.0 cents compared to 21.8 cents  
in the previous year
** , with the improvement mainly due to an increase  
in operating profit* of $2.7 million and a reduction in tax rate from  
24.8** per cent to 21.6 per cent. Basic earnings per share was  
23.3 cents compared to 22.2** cents in 2012.
Distributions to shareholders
During 2013 the Group paid a final dividend in respect of the year ended  
31 December 2012 of 5.32 cents per share (2012: 4.66 cents) and a special 
dividend of 4.79 cents per share (2012: nil). An interim dividend of 2.57 cents 
per share (2012: 2.45 cents) was paid on 4 October 2013 and the Board is 
recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 5.50 cents per share and a 
special dividend of 5.86 cents per share, both of which will be paid on  
30 May 2014.
* before exceptional items
**  restated following the adoption of IAS19 Employee Benefits standard
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13 Cash flow
The cash flow is summarised below.
2013
 $million
2012
restated
**
 $million
EBITDA
1
170.5 165.2
Change in working capital 6.5 (12.9)
Capital expenditure (35.0) (37.4)
Other 1.9 2.3
Operating cash flow 143.9 117.2
Pension deficit payments (26.8) (27.9)
Interest and tax (14.6) (15.7)
Other (1.5) (0.6)
Free cash flow 101.0 73.0
Dividends paid (58.3) (32.2)
Acquisitions and disposals (32.8) (24.0)
Currency fluctuations 0.2 1.0
Movement in net cash 10.1 17.8
Net cash at start of year 44.0 26.2
Net cash at end of year 54.1 44.0
1
 EBITDA – earnings before interest,  tax,  exceptional items, depreciation 
and amortisation
The Group delivered another positive cash flow performance in 2013 and, 
as a result, increased net cash on the balance sheet by $10. 1 million to  
$54. 1 million. Contributing to the increase in operating cash flow in the year, 
EBITDA increased from $165.2 million to $170.5 million, in line with the 
increase in operating profit for the year. Cash flow relating to working capital 
was an inflow of $6.5 million compared to an outflow of $12.9 million in 2012. 
This positive change was mainly the result of two things. First, the cash 
outflow in 2012 was higher because of a strategic decision taken in 2012 to 
increase the level of chrome ore stocks held during that year. Secondly, in 
2013 the timing of customer and supplier payments towards the end of the 
year was overall more favourable than in 2012. Capital expenditure in 2013 
was $2.4 million lower than the previous year, at $35.0 million, although higher 
than depreciation for the year ($23.9 million), as the Group continued to invest 
in the growth of Specialty Products. Growth investments in the year totalled 
$12.6 million and included $9.3 million on the new decorative additives 
plant in New Martinsville, US, while spending on plant maintenance and 
productivity across the Group was $21.8 million (2012: $18.9 million) and 
included additional capital expenditure from acquisitions and the installation 
of a new systems platform at the Delden facility in the Netherlands. Pension 
deficit payments in 2013 were $1. 1 million lower than the previous year at  
$26.8 million. The largest component of the payments relates to the UK plan, 
where payments under the existing funding agreement were at a similar level 
in both years. Interest and tax payments in 2013 were $14.6 million compared 
to $15.7 million in the previous year, with the modest reduction coming mostly 
from lower tax payments which were influenced by the timing of annual 
payments in various jurisdictions. Dividends paid in 2013 were $26. 1 million 
higher than the previous year, at $58.3 million, largely as a result of the first 
payment ($22.0 million) under the special dividend programme. Acquisition 
spending in 2013 of $32.8 million relates primarily to the acquisition of Hi-Mar 
in the US, while the spending in 2012 relates to the acquisition of Watercryl in 
Brazil. Both acquisitions were made by the Specialty Products business.
Balance sheet
2013
 $million
2012
restated
**
 
$million
Intangible fixed assets 382.1 356.7
Other net assets 107.7 78.5
Net cash 54.1 44.0
543.9 479.2
Equity 543.9 479.2
Group equity increased by $64.7 million in 2013, consistent with the 
profit for the year, after dividends paid and changes in pension liabilities. 
Intangible fixed assets increased by $25.4 million in the year, largely due 
to the acquisition of Hi-Mar in the year. Other net assets increased by 
$29.2 million, with the main drivers being a reduction in pension liabilities 
of $38. 1 million, as discussed below, and an increase in net tax liabilities 
of $23.8 million reflecting the impact of tax on profits for the year which 
were higher than tax actually paid out, plus the tax effect of a fall in 
pension deficits. Net cash increased by $10.1 million as described  
in the previous section.
The main dollar exchange rates relevant to the Group are set out below.
Year end
 2013
 Average Year end
2012 
Average
Pounds sterling 0.60 0.64 0.62 0.63
Euro 0.73 0.75 0.76 0.78
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a 
present obligation as a result of past events, which is expected to result 
in an outflow of economic benefits in order to settle the obligation. At the 
end of 2013 the Group held provisions of $38.1 million (2012: $40.5 million) 
relating to environmental, site closure and self-insurance, as detailed in the 
table below.
Environmental
$million
Site
closure
$million
Self-
insurance
$million
Total
$million
At 1 January 2013 21.9 15.7 2.9 40.5
Charge to income 
statement 1.2 0.8 0.8 2.8
Exceptional items (4.2) 4.4 – 0.2
Utilised during the year (2.0) (3.2) (0.5) (5.7)
Currency translation 
differences 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
At 31 December 2013 17.1 17.8 3.2 38.1
During the year there were a number of significant structural changes to 
provisions, the impact of which is shown as ‘Exceptional items’ in the above 
table and more details are provided in an earlier section of this report. These 
changes reduced environmental provisions by $4.2 million due to the 
reversal of a legacy provision of $9.8 million, offset by changes in the basis 
of the discount rate used and other smaller adjustments. They also resulted 
in an increase in Chromium UK closure provisions of $4.4 million due to net 
additional forecasted spending, changes in the basis of the discount rate 
used and other smaller adjustments. Other items shown in the table include 
‘Charge to income statement’ which mostly represents the accrual of 
discount to reflect the time value of money and, in the case of self-insurance, 
represents adjustments to estimated future claims. ‘Utilised during the year’ 
describes cash payments made in the year in each category.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 14
Finance report continued Pensions and other post retirement benefits
2013
 
$million
2012
restated
**
 
$million
Net liabilities:
UK 66.1 72.9
US 23.1 51.3
Other 10.1 13.2
99.3 137.4
UK plan
The largest of the Group’s retirement plans is the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme (‘UK Scheme’) which had a deficit under IAS 19 of $66. 1 million at the 
end of 2013, compared to $72.9 million at the end of 2012. The UK Scheme 
is relatively mature, with approximately 65 per cent (2012: 66 per cent) of its 
gross liabilities represented by pensions in payment, and is closed to new 
members. The deficit under IAS 19 declined in 2013 due mainly to a positive 
return on assets of 7 per cent (2012: 5 per cent) and deficit contributions 
from the Company of $21.4 million (2012: $21. 1 million), which partly offset 
the financial cost of the liabilities of $30.6 million (2012: $33.2 million) and 
other liability adjustments of $26.9 million (2012: $57 .5 million). Other liability 
adjustments included the impact of a decline in real bond yields by 20 basis 
points (2012: decline of 30 basis points). Future deficit contributions from the 
Company are defined in an agreement with the trustees of the scheme that 
was concluded in 2012, based on a valuation as of 30 September 201 1. 
Under the agreement the Company will make the following future payments 
in pounds sterling:
Year payable
Amount 
£million
2014 24.8
2015 14.9
2016 11.0
2017 9.8
2018 9.8
US plans
At the end of 2013, post retirement plans in the US consisted of a defined 
benefit pension plan with a deficit value of $15.6 million (2012: $42.8 million) 
and a post retirement medical plan with a liability value of $7 .5 million 
(2012: $8.5 million). The US pension plan is smaller than the UK Scheme 
and is closed to future accruals. In 2013 the deficit in the plan declined by  
$27 .2 million (2012: increased by $1.4 million) due to a positive return on 
plan assets of 22 per cent (2012: 13 per cent), employer contributions 
of $2.4 million (2012: $6.8 million) and other positive liability adjustments 
of $10.6 million (2012: negative $12.7 million). The other adjustments were 
favourably influenced by an increase in real bond yields of 80 basis points 
(2012: decrease of 60 basis points).
Other plans
In the Netherlands, the Group operates an insured defined benefits plan 
as is customary in that country. At the end of 2013 the deficit value for this 
plan was $3.7 million compared to $9.9 million in the previous year. The 
decline was due mostly to the settlement in the year of a 2009 claim made 
by a group of pensioners in relation to plan changes dating back to 2005, 
further details of which are included under the section ‘Exceptional items’. 
Other liabilities amounted to $6.4 million (2012: $3.3 million) and relate to 
pension arrangements for a relatively small number of employees in Germany, 
as well as additional provision in 2013 for benefits relating to the Eaglescliffe 
site as discussed in the ‘Exceptional items’ section.
** restated following the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard
Key performance indicators
The Group’s key performance indicators are a standard 
set of measures against which each business reports on a 
monthly basis. Incentive plans include targets against the 
annual operating plan for earnings per share,  operating 
profit and average trade working capital to sales ratio.
1. Operating profit/operating margin
Operating profit is the profit derived from the normal operations 
of the business. Operating margin is the ratio of operating profit, 
before exceptional items, to sales. The Group achieved an operating 
profit* of $146.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2013 
(2012: $143.9 million before exceptional items). The Group’s operating 
margin* was 19 per cent compared to 19 per cent in 2012.
2. Average trade working capital to sales ratio
The trade working capital to sales ratio is defined as the 12 month 
average trade working capital divided by sales, expressed as 
a percentage. Trade working capital comprises inventories, 
trade receivables and trade payables. It specifically excludes 
prepayments, capital or interest related receivables or 
payables, changes due to currency movements and items 
classified as other receivables and other payables. The Group’s 
12 month average trade working capital to sales ratio at 
31 December 2013 was 20 per cent (2012: 19 per cent). 
 
3. Return on operating capital employed
The return on operating capital employed (‘ROCE’) is defined as  
operating profit before exceptional items divided by operating 
capital employed, expressed as a percentage. Operating capital 
employed comprises fixed assets (excluding goodwill), working 
capital and operating provisions. Operating provisions include 
self-insurance and environmental provisions but exclude 
restructuring provisions and retirement benefit obligations.  
The Group’s ROCE was 41 per cent for the year ended 
31 December 2013 (2012: 45 per cent).
ROCE for the Group including goodwill was 21 per cent in 2013 
(2012: 23
 
per cent
**
 ).
4. Lost time accidents
A lost time accident (‘LTA’) is any work related injury or illness 
sustained by an employee or directly employed contractor whilst 
working at the Group’s premises that results in greater than three 
days lost, excluding the day of accident. There were 3 LTAs in 
2013 (2012: two).
5. Contribution margin
The Group’s contribution margin, which is defined as sales less all 
variable costs, divided by sales and expressed as a percentage, 
in 2013 was 37 per cent (2012: 38 per cent).
6. Operating cash flow
The operating cash flow is defined as the net cash flow from 
operating activities less net capital expenditure but excluding 
income taxes paid or received, interest paid or received, 
pension contributions net of current service cost and exceptional 
items. In 2013 the operating cash flow was $143.9 million 
(2012: $1 17 .2 million).
* before exceptional items 
**
  restated for updated provisional fair value adjustments
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15 Figure 1
Figure 2
 
Site management
and employees
Business Operations Director
Management team
Board
 
External advisers                                                            Compliance controls and audit functions
Support functions, policies and procedures
Regulatory 
requirements
Technological 
developments
R&D
M&A
Commercial 
disputes
Competition
Product liability
Regulatory action
Compliance breach 
Environmental
incident
 
IT
Supply chain/
raw materials
Transportation
HSE
Financial markets
Compliance costs
Pensions
Tax
Economy
                   
                          
            
 
 
 
    
             
            
                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
Reputational
                                                                                                
       
       
       
Strategic                                                                                            Financial                                               Operational
                                                Compliance                     Hazard
The governance framework at Elementis is well defined internally. 
The Board is responsible for preserving and generating value for 
shareholders, while ensuring that the Group’s business activities are 
operated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well 
as in a responsible manner as regards business conduct, ethics and 
its health, safety and environmental performance.
The Board defines strategic direction in conjunction with the management 
team and monitors the performance of the businesses in all material 
aspects of their operation, while the management team is responsible for 
managing all businesses activities and delivery of the Group’s strategic 
objectives and annual operating plans. This requires identifying both 
opportunity and risk and leveraging these to the Group’s advantage. 
The management of risk is integrated into the general management 
function which means all layers of management have a responsibility 
for identifying, assessing and communicating risk upwards in the 
chain of management. To support this approach, the Group has risk 
management policies, procedures and controls in place. The lean 
operational management structure operated, as shown in Figure 1 
below, ensures this approach is effective.
Twice a year the management team also carries out a more formal risk review. 
The first part of the process requires all sites and functional departments to 
complete comprehensive risk assessments that are compiled into risk maps 
and registers which are then reviewed by the business leadership and 
management teams, together with risk scores to estimate the financial impact 
to the business and their likelihood of occurrence, as well as the risk controls 
and mitigation action taken. The second part is a review of the Group’s business 
continuity plans with scenario testing and training at corporate and site level.
The output from these exercises is shared with the Board. Management 
reports are also discussed at monthly Board meetings and HSE 
performance is reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the management team 
and approved by the Board are shown in Figure 2 below (see also table  
on pages 18 and 19). 
Figure 2 shows the major risks to the Group, illustrates which aspects  
of operations they can potentially impact and groups the different risks 
together using the FIRM risk scorecard approach
1
.
The risks disclosed are broadly the same as disclosed in previous years,  
with little change in risk profile and no new material risks identified. The Group 
monitors a broad Top 20 risk grouping, analysing the risk profile for each 
(whether it is increasing, decreasing or stable, by reference to probability  
and severity of impact pre and post mitigation). The composition of this broad 
grouping is fairly stable. Management understands the businesses well and 
the associated risks and opportunities, although benchmarking and use  
of survey studies are used to retain a fresh perspective.
The risks shown in Figure 2 and the associated mitigation actions 
were discussed by the management team and reviewed by the Board.  
To assist shareholders to understand better how these risks can impact 
the Group and its businesses, the following commentary is given to 
provide further context.
Risks are identified and grouped according to standard classification 
systems as shown in the table below which also gives examples of 
different threats within each risk category.
Risk category Examples of threats
Strategic Loss of competitive focus, M&A, R&D or key supply 
chain failure.
Operational Resource allocation failure, HSE or IT incident.
Financial Credit, liquidity or fraud.
Compliance Breach of laws, operating permits or Group policies.
Hazard Hurricane, typhoon or litigation.
Risk awareness training is an important part of our risk management so 
that managers in different roles and functions can recognise, identify and 
communicate risks to the business leadership and management teams. 
On a monthly basis, the management team reviews business performance 
and all material risks to the business and the Group’s ability to deliver its 
operating plans are discussed. These risks can be from any of the above 
risk categories. 
1
 A structural approach to Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and the requirements 
of ISO 31000, AIRMIC, Alarm, IRM, 2010.
Financial
Infrastructure
Reputation
Marketplace
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 16
Risk management report
Finance report continued Our flat management structure and holistic approach allow for a high 
degree of communication and control throughout the organisation. This 
multi-purpose, multi-focus business review approach to risk by different 
layers of management is augmented by external support and compliance 
audits where appropriate. For example, our insurance programme 
includes an annual programme of rolling property inspections and our 
HSE performance is also subject to periodic external audit by HSE third 
parties. The Group’s internal audit programme is another key aspect of 
our compliance monitoring and assurance process, focussing mainly 
on financial, operational and compliance controls. 
In terms of keeping the views of our major shareholders under 
consideration, Elementis has robust procedures in place to ensure 
that the views of shareholders are known. These include regular 
management meetings with major shareholders and maintaining a 
strong flow of information from the Group’s corporate brokers to the 
Board, to ensure that market expectations and the views of major 
shareholders and analysts are taken into consideration by the Board 
when setting priorities. Two important issues in this regard are executive 
remuneration and decisions concerning accounting policies and 
disclosures. These are more fully explained in the respective reports 
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Safety and environmental compliance is a key priority and, as a chemicals 
manufacturer, our facilities are subject to many regulations and managed to 
an even higher standard. Of our 18 operating facilities, 5 have achieved 
ISO 14001 certification, 3 have achieved OSHA’s 18001 certification and  
our other sites are managed to similarly high standards. An example of 
where we have gone beyond regulatory requirements is at our principal 
chromium facility in Castle Hayne, North Carolina, which has achieved the 
comprehensive performance based criteria to be accredited in the STAR 
programme. This accomplishment is the highest recognition level under 
OSHA’s voluntary protection programme, which recognises employees 
and employers who have achieved exemplary occupational safety and 
health. Our performance in the ‘Corporate responsibility’ report shows 
that we manage HSE risks to a high standard and this will continue to  
be one of our main priorities.
Supply chain risk is another major focus of the business since the ability 
to supply customers can be affected by disruptions due to economic 
uncertainties or caused by severe weather patterns. However, we have 
developed close relationships with our supply chain partners and taken 
action to broaden our supplier base. For example, in recent years we have 
broadened the number of chrome ore suppliers to the business. Another 
example of risk mitigation concerns our hectorite mine in Southern 
California which experienced 2 instances of severe flooding over the  
past 15 years, the last being in 2005. 2 years ago we installed drainage 
pumps inside the mine which will help to restore operations more quickly 
and minimise business disruption. We also maintain strategic holdings of 
key raw materials, such as chrome ore and hectorite clay, and carry 
business interruption insurance.
The main climate change risks are more frequent and severe hurricanes 
on the east coast of the US and typhoons in China and Taiwan. However, 
our businesses have procedures in place, including implementing a 
planned shutdown, and business continuity plans are maintained and 
rehearsed to mitigate the consequences of these events. An example of 
a recent event is that our Anji facility in China was impacted by Typhoon 
Fitow last year which disrupted operations for 3 to 4 weeks. However, for 
incidents like this, the Company carries business interruption insurance.
Marketplace risks, as shown, cover a wide range of risks. The risk having 
the highest potential impact on the Group financially is the economic 
environment. However, the Group has a broad geographic presence, 
mitigating the impact of economic changes in any one country. One of 
our principal priorities is staying focussed and delivering our customers 
with tailored differentiated solutions, a strategy that has helped us remain 
competitive. This has been boosted by our innovation model which has 
developed products to enable us to reach new customers, markets and 
geographies. Major investments and capital expenditure items are subject 
to authority limits and review by management and the Board. 
Financial and compliance risks are well defined, understood and managed; 
further details are described in the Audit Committee report. 
Our approach to taxation is to ensure that profits are earned in the countries 
in which economic activities are undertaken and that those profits are 
properly subject to tax in accordance with the tax legislation which applies 
in each jurisdiction. We aim to comply fully with the requirements and 
expectations of each of the relevant tax authorities and to ensure that 
we deal with these authorities in an open and transparent manner.
The table below describes risk management responsibilities in the Group.
Areas of focus
Board
Management 
team
Business 
leadership
Operational 
management
All employees
Risk appetite and tolerance
Risk management culture, 
resources and organisation
Risk communication and identification
Risk assessment and analysis
Risk mitigation and control
Reporting and monitoring performance
Risk assurance
Reviewing risk management framework
Strategic risk
Operational risk
Financial risk
Compliance risk
Hazard risk
Reputational risk
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17 Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Impact Mitigation
  1.  Global economic 
conditions and 
competitive 
pressure in the 
marketplace.
• Sub-optimal global economic 
conditions can affect sales, 
capacity utilisation and 
cash generation, as well  
as increase competitive 
pressure in the marketplace, 
impacting profitability and 
operating margins. 
• The resultant non-delivery of 
operating plans can lead to 
market expectations of Group 
earnings not being met.
• Specialty Products is well positioned against a deterioration in economic conditions 
due to its balanced geographic footprint, broad differentiated product offering and 
the broad application of its technology across different sectors.
• Chromium business model is flexible and can be adapted to respond to variances 
in regional demand patterns.
• Financial performance (including monthly sales, profit and cash flows) is closely 
monitored with full year forecasts updated three times a year and variances 
explained and investigated.
• Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented in the event of an 
economic downturn to reduce operating costs, including freezing salaries and 
non-essential capital expenditure items.
  2.  G r o w t h 
opportunities 
(including 
acquisitions)  
and product 
innovation may  
not materialise.
• As above. • Organic and acquisitive growth is a priority for the Board and a key area of 
focus for the management team.
• Experienced Board and management team, robust due diligence processes 
and support of professional advisers.
• Capacity expansion programmes are being implemented to ensure the  
business can supply to high growth markets.
• Regular Board reports on new product pipeline and progress on R&D projects.
  3.  Raw materials/ 
supply chain. 
• Disruption to supply 
chain, key raw materials, 
infrastructure (eg IT networks 
or transportation) and energy 
price stability can impact 
capacity utilisation and add 
to operating costs.
• Raw materials are sourced from a broad and diverse supplier base.
• Strategic holding of key raw materials.
• Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance in place.
• Energy costs are hedged where possible.
  4.  M aj or r e g u la t or y 
enforcement action, 
litigation and/or 
other claims arising 
from products and/
or historical and 
ongoing operations.
• Can lead to higher 
operating costs and 
reputational damage.
• Active compliance and risk management programmes in place 
(including policies, procedures and training).
• Insurance programme and risk transfer strategy in place to mitigate 
financial losses.
• Experienced General Counsel supported by in-house and external legal teams.
• Regular reviews of litigation and compliance reports by the Board and role of 
the Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme, help ensure 
these key risks are managed effectively.
  5.  UK pension fund. • Volatile financial markets, 
poor investment returns and 
increased life expectancy 
can all result in higher 
funding costs.
• Pension investment strategy includes significant element of liability matching, 
including the use of interest rate and inflation hedging instruments.
• Options for pension de-risking periodically reviewed.
• Deficit funding plan agreed with UK pension scheme trustees through to 2018.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 18
Finance report continued
Risk management report continued Risk Impact Mitigation
  6.  Re gul a t io n / 
technological 
advances.
• New technology, methods 
of production or processes 
can give competitors a 
market advantage.
• New regulations restricting 
the use or carriage of 
chemicals can lead to loss 
of applications and sales  
and/or add to operating costs.
• R&D team aims to develop new products and technologies for use in an 
evolving market to meet the changing needs of our sophisticated customers.
• Active REACh programme in which the businesses participate in industry 
consortia, providing data and information to regulators and experts, to 
support safety reviews of our products in a broad range of applications.
  7.  Major event or 
catastrophe 
(eg IT failure 
or operations 
incident).
• Such incidents can impact 
capacity utilisation and add 
to operating costs.
• Good housekeeping, preventative maintenance and other safety procedures 
help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
• Reliance on hectorite mine and flood risk mitigated by the installation of 
drainage pumps at the mine in 2011.
• Insurance programme and business continuity plans that are tested regularly 
help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
• HSE management programme with environmental compliance audits in place.
  8.  Major disruption to 
global or regional 
banking systems.
• Volatile financial markets 
and/or major disruptions to 
global or regional banking 
systems can affect liquidity, 
the ability to access cash, 
make payments and fund 
operations, and lead to 
higher operating costs.
• Company was in a net cash position at the year end with extensive borrowing 
facilities in place, so any impact is unlikely to materially impact on the ability to 
trade and fund operations.
• Company cash is deposited with a syndicate of banks with high credit 
approval ratings.
• Company has a strong unleveraged balance sheet so could raise alternative 
sources of funding in emergencies.
• Treasury policies implemented and compliance monitored, strong focus on 
cash management with weekly cash reports so that cash requirements are 
known in advance.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 88.
Brian Taylorson
Finance Director
25 February 2014
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19 Introduction
Elementis recognises that corporate responsibility (‘CR’) is a 
fundamental part of the Company’s business activities, which is why 
the Chief Executive is responsible at Board level for all CR matters.
The Company has since September 2009 been a member of the 
FTSE4Good Index, a leading global responsible investment index, which 
demonstrates the Company’s commitment to CR and that its activities 
and aspirations are aligned with the principles of the UN Global Compact 
on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Below is an 
illustration of the Company’s CR framework.
Business conduct and ethics
People
The long term success of the Group depends on the passion, attitude,  
commitment and work ethic of all our employees around the world. 
It is our people who remain our most valuable asset and are a key 
differentiator between Elementis and its competitors.
The high expectations Elementis has for all of its employees around the 
world are set out in the Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
(the ‘Code’). The Code is supplemented by policies, processes and 
guidelines covering a wide range of compliance matters, such as  anti-
bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest and compliance with local 
laws and regulations, which are supported by whistleblowing procedures 
including an anti-retaliation policy. All employees are required to undertake 
training on the Code and certify that they understand and agree to be 
bound by its provisions. The Board and management team consider the 
Code to be critical to the Group’s continuing success and in how it meets 
its corporate responsibilities.
In 2013, our training programme on the Code was translated into a sixth 
language, Portuguese, to extend its accessibility to our employees in 
Brazil and bi-annual refresher training was provided to nearly 50 per cent 
of our global workforce to help employees stay up to date with their 
responsibilities under the Code.
Policies are updated as necessary and new ones implemented to take 
account of the changing business environment with associated training 
provided. For 2014, training will focus on a number of updated policies 
including the Global anti-corruption policy and a new Group computer 
usage and social media policy.
Diversity
Elementis is fully committed to equality of opportunity. We apply a policy 
of non-discrimination throughout the Group and to all aspects of our 
employment policies, except as it relates to a person’s ability or potential 
in relation to the needs of a job. A summary of our employment policies 
appears on page 49 of the Directors’ report. We have a total workforce 
(including contractors and temporary workers) of over 1,300 in three 
regions (44 per cent in the Americas, 25 per cent in Europe and  
31 per cent in Asia). In terms of gender diversity, out of our total workforce 
(excluding contractors and temporary workers) as at the year end, 963 
were male (76 per cent) and 312 were female (24 per cent). Of these female 
employees, 50 (16 per cent) held managerial positions and 
nearly 40 (13 per cent) held an executive management position (within 
the four tiers below Board level). At Board level 5 directors were male  
and 1 was female and at senior manager level (as defined under the 
prescribed regulations) 19 were male and 1 female. The Group does 
not consider targets or quotas to be appropriate for increasing the 
percentage of women in management positions. Staff turnover across 
the Group, for 2013, was under 1.2 per cent (2012: 0.5 per cent).
Human rights
Elementis supports fundamental human rights, such as the right to 
privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with dignity and respect. These 
fundamental principles are supported by Group policies, such as our 
anti-harassment policy and grievance procedures. Our employment 
policies reflect the UN Global Compact principles concerning the 
prohibition of child and forced labour, freedom of association, equality 
of treatment and non-discrimination. Currently over 40 per cent of our 
employees are union members and over a fifth are subject to collective 
bargaining agreements. 
Further information on the Code, the Group’s compliance programme 
and human rights at Elementis can be found on our website at:  
www.elementisplc.com/governance-responsibility
Customers, suppliers and supply chain
Each of our business strategies has as its cornerstone an intense focus 
on our customers with the goal of offering value added, high quality 
solutions that are supported by strong technical service. Best in class 
technical service and innovative product development are critical 
elements in helping our customers be successful and in how we 
differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Our success is driven by 
our close customer relationships, key account business process and 
participation in trade shows and industry forums.
We have continued to address questions from our customers on social 
responsibility and environmental awareness programmes and have 
successfully completed a number of surveys and informal audits. Training 
worldwide for all procurement members continues to ensure compliance 
and adherence to our Purchasing Code of Practice and anti-corruption 
policy. Suppliers are likewise expected to affirm their conformity to 
international labour laws, social and environmental responsible legislation 
and best practices. Conflict minerals continue to be absent from our 
supply chain.
Use of natural products within our supply chain grew by $1.3 million 
in 2013 and is now up to $17 .1 million annually. This represents a rise 
of 8 per cent from 2012 ($15.8 million).
 
Elementis corporate responsibility framework
 
Business conduct
and ethics
Health and
safety
Environment and
community
 People and
compliance
programme
 Equal
opportunity
and diversity
 Labour and
fundamental
human rights
 Customers,
suppliers and
supply chain
 Commitment
 Performance
 Initiatives
 Commitment
 Performance
– Impact
– Emissions
– Energy and
water use
– Waste
 Initiatives
 Product
stewardship
 Community
engagement
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 20
Corporate responsibility report Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked
Recordable incident rate
Elementis
American Chemistry Council – Responsible Care
®
US chemical industry
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Key
(2012 is latest data available for ACC and US chemical)
0
1
2
3
4
5
worked (2012: 1.03 – restated). Within the chemical industry, the sustained 
performance of Elementis is comparable to companies that are generally 
viewed as having ‘industry best’ safety performance (based on data for the 
American Chemistry Council – Responsible Care
®
 members, 0.75 in 2012), 
which is significantly better than the general chemical industry in the US (2.3 in 
2012 based on latest data available from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics). 
Elementis sites use contractors regularly and their safety is just as important 
as the safety of employees and they are required to comply with the same 
policy and procedures. In 2013, contractors suffered five recordable injuries 
(2012: zero), which equated to an incident rate of 2.35 per 200,000 hours 
worked. None of the contractors sustained serious injury.
Health and safety initiatives
During 2013, our health and safety leadership team has continued to work 
on a number of improvement initiatives, such as a further roll out of our 
‘Basic Safety Process’ programme, process hazard analysis for all our site 
operations and focussing on hazard recognition skills at employee level 
including the use of visible operational metrics and HSE scorecards.
Environmental performance
Elementis seeks to minimise the impact of its operations on the 
environment and contribute to a more sustainable future. We view 
compliance with all applicable legal requirements and other codes 
of practice as our minimum standard. Our sustainable development 
strategy requires that we work proactively to reduce emissions, minimise 
waste from our processes, conserve valuable natural resources and 
ensure responsible product stewardship throughout the supply chain.
Elementis records and categorises environmental incidents into tiers based 
on the severity or actions taken by regulatory authorities. Tier 3 incidents are 
those that have an impact on the environment and require reporting to an 
external authority and where enforcement action is likely. Tier 2 incidents 
have a minor impact and require notification but are likely to result in minimal 
or no action by the authorities. Tier 1 incidents require no external reporting 
and are recorded internally and investigated so that continual improvements 
can be made to reduce the likelihood of future Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents. 
In 2013, Elementis had no Tier 3 or Tier 2 incidents (2012: zero). 
Environmental impact
Elementis monitors key environmental statistics of each facility, such as 
emissions, effluent and disposal and reports the significant aspects. 
These results are affected by changes in the fuel, processes, product 
mix and plant efficiencies, which may change with production volume.  
As is standard practice in the chemical industry, emission values may 
be calculated from energy use or based on representative sampling, 
as well as continuous monitoring. It should be noted that water and 
energy consumption, emissions, discharges and waste generated are 
all influenced by production output and special events. An increase or 
decrease does not necessarily mean performance in these areas has 
or has not improved. 
Emissions to air
The Group is committed to reducing emissions to air that pollute or 
have a global warming potential. 
Emissions of the oxides of sulphur and nitrogen and volatile organic 
compounds (‘VOCs’) arising from the Group’s operations are controlled  
to comply with regulatory permits. As the volumes are not considered  
to be significant, they are not reported separately here. Any emissions  
to air above regulatory permitted levels would be reported as 
environmental incidents.
Health, safety and environment
Elementis takes active steps to protect the health and safety of its employees, 
contractors and visitors, and to preserve the environment. Biodiversity is 
protected wherever possible by reducing the potential for significant damage 
to sensitive species, habitats and ecosystems. The Group also recognises a 
shared responsibility globally for conserving natural resources and reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
The Group has a well established health, safety and environment (‘HSE’) 
management system that is aligned with international standards which 
includes: corporate policy, annual objectives, internal and external auditing, 
incident reporting and investigation, metrics, management review and 
emergency preparedness. See also page 17 .
Further information about the Group’s approach to health, safety 
and environmental matters can be found on our website at:
www.elementisplc.com/governance-responsibility/ 
health-safety-and-environment-policy-values/
Health and safety performance
The Company continually strives to eliminate accidents and injuries within 
the workplace. This is achieved through maintaining our strong focus 
on, and commitment to, safety design, a safe environment, setting and 
communicating safety standards, training, encouraging safe behaviours 
and developing a safety culture.
The Group uses recordable incidents as its principal measure of safety 
performance. Recordable incidents (as defined by the US Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration) are basically work related injuries and illnesses that 
require medical treatment beyond first aid, work restrictions to normal duties 
or time away from work. To monitor performance and trends among more 
serious injuries and illnesses, the Group also records lost time accidents 
(‘L TAs’) that require greater than three days away from work not including the 
day of incident. The number of recordable incidents across the Group in 2013 
was 12 (2012: 13 – restated). Of the 12 recordable incidents only three 
required time away from work greater than three days (2012: two). Of particular 
note is our hectorite mine in Newberry Springs, California, which has achieved 
22 years without a lost time accident, and the Chromium facility at Corpus 
Christi, Texas, which has achieved 10 years without a recordable injury  
or illness. 
As well as the total number of recordable and lost time incidents, the 
Board uses the overall recordable incident rate as a performance indicator. 
The total recordable incident rate in 2013 was 0.95 per 200,000 hours 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 21 Greenhouse gas emissions
Elementis now reports greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions for its global 
operations in a more comprehensive way than previously. In addition to 
emissions arising from fuel combustion and process reactions, emissions 
associated with the use of electricity and steam are also reported (Scope 
1 and Scope 2 emissions respectively under The Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013). In this first 
year (2013 being designated as the base year) there is no comparison with 
previous years. Future years will show comparisons with the previous year 
and the base year. 
The principal GHG due to operations at Elementis locations are carbon 
dioxide, with a negligible quantity of nitrous oxide. GHG emissions have 
been converted into carbon dioxide equivalent (‘CO
2
e’) using official data 
provided by DEFRA. GHG emissions are reported for all 20 manufacturing 
sites including principal offices and laboratories. A number of much 
smaller sales offices have been excluded because the level of CO
2
e 
emissions were deemed to be too immaterial.
Elementis is providing two intensity ratios. Tonnes CO
2
e per tonne of 
production and tonnes CO
2
e per kWh of energy consumed. Both will 
provide in future years an indication of energy efficiency improvements 
including cleaner fuels consumed. These ratios are subject to variations 
due to changes in the mix of products manufactured, volumes and 
energy efficiency improvements. For example in 2013 the Specialty 
Products site at Livingston, Scotland, made energy efficiency 
improvements that resulted in site savings in CO
2
 emissions of 5.7 per cent 
on a year on year basis, or a 7 .2 per cent reduction on a production 
adjusted basis. 100 per cent of the electricity supply to the Livingston  
site in 2014 will be from renewable sources.
GHG emissions for 2013 are shown below.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1:
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 221,076 tonnes CO
2
e
Scope 2:
Electricity and steam purchased for own use 89,500 tonnes CO
2
e
TOTAL – Scopes 1 & 2 310,576 tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity ratio:
tonnes CO
2
e/tonne production (‘t/t’) 0.773 t/t
Supplementary intensity ratio:
kg CO
2
e/kWh energy consumed (‘kg/kWh’) 0.270 kg/kWh
The Group is committed to reducing its consumption of energy derived 
from fossil fuels as a contribution towards reducing GHG emissions and 
the consequent impact on global warming. There is nevertheless an 
energy requirement for production, so the Group has taken steps to move 
towards cleaner energy sources, such as natural gas in place of oil.  
In 2013 natural gas represented 95 per cent of fuel consumption.  
There is also the added incentive that energy is an expensive resource  
and its efficient use has a significant effect on the cost of production.
Discharges to water
Maintaining the water quality of the areas in which we operate is a regulatory 
issue and vital to protect the local ecosystems and communities. The Group’s 
production activity generates process effluent that is routinely tested to ensure 
that the quality meets strict permit limits prior to discharge. Typical analysis 
includes chemical and biological oxygen demand and total suspended solids. 
The volumes of these discharges are not considered to be significant and 
are not reported here. However, any discharges to water above regulatory 
permitted levels would be reported under environmental incidents.
Water consumption
Generally the Company does not operate in areas of extreme water 
shortage. Nevertheless, water is a valuable resource and the Company 
recognises the global need to conserve water. Water consumption is 
minimised where possible by treatment and recycling. 
Water consumption is related to production output, product mix, plant 
utilisation and cleaning activities. Water consumption was slightly lower 
in 2013 despite an increase in production output.
Water consumption
2013 2012 2011
Absolute
(000s)
Per
tonne of
production
Absolute
(000s)
Per
tonne of
production
Absolute
(000s)
Per
tonne of
production
Water
consumed
(m
3
) 1,908 7.48 1,928 7.97 1,889 6.97
Energy consumption
The energy requirement per tonne of production remained stable with 
consumption increasing slightly, in line with production output.
Energy consumption
2013 2012 2011
Absolute
(000s)
Per
tonne of
production
Absolute
(000s)
Per
tonne of
production
Absolute
(000s)
Per
tonne of
production
Energy
consumed
(GJ) 5,102 13.0 4,910 12.9 4,862 12.1
Examples of energy reduction initiatives
The Specialty Products site at Delden in the Netherlands has an energy 
efficiency plan for the period 2013–2016. The facility has identified several 
process efficiency measures where it is committing to reduce energy usage by 
an estimated 6 per cent over the four years, with an additional 6 per cent over 
the same period subject to further study and investment. Areas where such 
improvements are anticipated include ventilation, replacement of the nitrogen 
supply and through the activities of an ‘Operational Excellence’ initiative.
The Specialty Products site at Livingston, Scotland, has replaced three 
steam boilers with two high efficiency boilers. This resulted in a 5.2 per 
cent absolute reduction in natural gas usage on a year on year basis, or 
a 6.3 per cent reduction on a production adjusted basis. The site has 
also made a combination of changes in operating practice including the 
installation of variable frequency drives on large electric motors which 
resulted in a 6.5 per cent absolute reduction in usage on a year on year 
basis, or a 7 .5 per cent reduction on a production adjusted basis.
Our executive management headquarters in East Windsor, New Jersey, 
is implementing a building optimisation programme in 2014 to monitor 
energy use throughout the building. Linking this to an energy management 
system will reduce energy costs through rapid response to demand. 
Annual savings are projected to be in excess of $100,000. 
Solid and liquid waste
As part of our commitment to sustainable development, Elementis 
seeks to reduce the quantity of all types of waste. The first concern is to 
reduce the amount of waste that is classed as hazardous. Beyond that 
non-hazardous waste is minimised and recycled. Non-hazardous waste 
is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln operations, 
which is deposited in permitted impoundments and licensed landfill 
sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 22
Corporate responsibility report
continued Hazardous waste decreased in 2013 (see table below) due partly to changes in 
solvent management and recycling initiatives at the Specialty Products site in 
Jersey City, New Jersey, and partly due to the intermittent nature of equipment 
cleaning and refractory brick disposal at Elementis Chromium sites.
The overburden clay from the hectorite mine provides a good example of 
recycling and reducing the impact on the land. Residual clay is recovered 
from the discharge water and blended back into the process with the 
hectorite ore feedstock. Tailings with minor clay content are sold for use as 
liner for recreation ponds, fish rearing lakes and in 2013 a sizeable amount 
was sold for a sewage lagoon liner project and recreational fishing ponds. 
Brown overburden clay is also being sold for soil improvement in the central 
valley of California. Selling overburden and optimising stockpile height has 
the additional benefit of reducing the overall area impacted at the mine.
Waste disposal
2013 2012 2011
Absolute
(000s)
Per 1,000
tonnes of
production
Absolute
(000s)
Per 1,000
tonnes of
production
Absolute
(000s)
Per 1,000
tonnes of
production
Hazardous 
waste 
disposed 
(tonnes) 0.93 3.64 1.70 7.01 1.54 5.67
Non-
hazardous 
waste 
disposed 
(tonnes) 105 410 104 430 116 431
R&D and sustainability
Our R&D efforts support and contribute to a more sustainable future 
with the global R&D team continuing to drive its research towards:
• Reduction in the use of materials that contribute to greenhouse gases.
• Development of new biodegradable products for use in 
aqueous environments.
• Expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
• Facilitating the migration of decorative coatings to aqueous 
solutions from solvent based systems. 
New rheological additive technology was introduced that facilitated the 
development of higher solids, solvent borne coatings for use in high 
performance applications. New adhesion technology was developed 
that facilitates the adhesion of aqueous coatings to plastic substrates. 
Both developments led to reduced use of greenhouse gas precursors.
Our portfolio of zero VOC additives was further enhanced with new 
products that address long term industry performance needs, while 
earlier product launches continued to expand their geographical reach.
Product stewardship
Our global product stewardship team is responsible for ensuring our 
products are safe for intended use, transport and to people and the 
environment throughout the products' entire life cycle and that we are 
contributing to a more sustainable future.
During 2013 Elementis continued to be fully engaged in the European REACh 
programme and successfully delivered on its 2013 Tier 2 REACh obligations 
with the registration of 23 substances key to the Elementis product portfolio. In 
2013 our REACh programme was reviewed by a regulatory authority of an EU 
member state and found to be in full compliance. As Elementis moves forward 
in 2014, we have begun preparations for registrations of those substances that 
will cross volume bands due to increased product sales, including work for the 
registration of over 100 substances for the 2018 Tier 3 REACh obligations.
In addition to complying with the REACh regulatory requirements for 
our products during 2013, Elementis continued to focus on compliance 
with the United Nations GHS (Globally Harmonized System) hazard 
communications standard as it is implemented around the world.  
In 2013 Elementis made significant investment in its regulatory compliance 
software system, Wercs, to more fully automate compliance and prepare 
for the implementation of GHS in the US by the end of 2014. Additional 
functionality has been added to meet the proliferation of GHS standards 
in several South American, Eastern European and Asian countries from 
2014 to 2017 .
During 2013, in order to meet OSHA’s mandate to provide GHS training 
to all US employees, Elementis instituted a more robust internal product 
stewardship audit programme at all US plants. This programme was 
extended to our European operations in late 2013 and will be further 
extended to our Asian operations in 2014.
Finally, in 2013 Elementis brought online an enhanced Export Control 
Management System to ensure compliance with the extensive and strict 
export regulations of both the US and the EU. Key components of this 
system include strong internal written policies and proactive external 
auditing of Elementis' freight forwarders and export brokers.
Further information on product stewardship at Elementis 
can be found on our website at:  
www.elementisplc.com/governance-responsibility/ 
product-stewardship-social-ethical-matters/
Community
Our community programme remains centred on encouraging and 
supporting employees to be active in their communities through volunteer 
work or fundraising. The Group understands the need to work with local 
communities and be a responsible neighbour, such as continuing to be a 
sponsoring partner of the Mojave Environmental Education Consortium 
in California, which provides many environmental education programmes 
and resources for teachers and students. Our Newberry Springs mine is 
located near the Mojave desert.
Approval of Strategic report
The Strategic report comprises the following sections: ‘Chairman’s 
statement’, ‘Group Chief Executive’s overview’, ‘Our objectives, strategies 
and business model’, ‘Our businesses’, ‘Finance report’ (incorporating 
Key performance indicators and the Risk management report) and 
‘Corporate responsibility report’ (which incorporates information relating 
to greenhouse gas emissions required to be included in the Directors’ 
report). The Strategic report was approved by the Board and has been 
signed on its behalf by:
Brian Taylorson
Finance Director
25 February 2014
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23 Non-executive directors
Executive directors
Ian Brindle 
Chairman
Committee membership: A,  N(c)
Ian Brindle was appointed a non-executive director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee in June 2005. He retired as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee in April 2008 and was appointed Senior Independent 
Director. He became Chairman of the Board on 1 August 2013. He was 
senior partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and UK chairman 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers until 2001. He was also a member of the 
Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 and the deputy 
chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between 2001 and 
2008. He is senior independent director and chairman of the audit 
committee of Spirent Communications plc. He was non-executive 
chairman of Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) A Limited and Sherborne 
Investors (Guernsey) B Limited, a non-executive director of 4imprint 
Group plc from October 2003 to June 2012, where he was also 
the senior independent director, and a non-executive director of  
F&C Asset Management plc from February 2011 to May 2013. 
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
David Dutro was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2007 . He 
joined Elementis in November 1998 as President of Elementis Pigments 
and then became President and Chief Operating Officer of Elementis 
Worldwide in October 2005. He was vice president and general manager 
of Universal Foods’ Dairy and Food Ingredient businesses (now Sensient 
Technologies Corp) and also spent time with ICI in their colours, polymer 
additives and surfactants businesses. David Dutro was born and 
educated in the US and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in marketing.
Brian Taylorson
Finance Director
Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director in April 2002. Before 
joining Elementis he was head of the European chemicals M&A group 
at KPMG Corporate Finance. He joined KPMG in 2000 from the Dow 
Chemical Company where he held a number of finance positions over a 
period of 17 years, living and working in several countries including the 
UK, South Africa, Switzerland, Canada and the US. He holds an MA 
degree in engineering from Cambridge University, is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member 
of the Association of Corporate Treasurers. He was a non-executive 
director of Fiberweb plc between September 2006 and August 2012.
Andrew Christie
Committee membership: A,  N,  R(c)
Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive director in August 2008 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2013. He 
has over 25 years of investment banking and international corporate 
finance experience. He is a partner of Smith Square Partners LLP , a 
corporate finance advisory firm, and before that was, until March 2008, 
a UK managing director in the European Investment Banking Group at 
Credit Suisse. In his prior role at Credit Suisse, he was head of Investment 
Banking, Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong and, before that, he held the 
same position with Barclays de Zoete Wedd. He is a non-executive 
director of Helios Underwriting plc and holds an MBA and a Bachelor 
of Science degree in engineering.
Kevin Matthews
Committee membership: A,  N,  R
Kevin Matthews was appointed a non-executive director in February 
2005 and served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 
April 2008 until the end of September 2013. He is chief executive officer 
of Isogenica Limited, a private biotechnology business based in the UK 
and established in 2000. Prior to that, he was CEO of Oxonica plc, a 
UK based nanotechnology company, a role he held from April 2001 to 
September 2009, and previous to that he held roles in Rhodia Consumer 
Specialties Limited, Albright & Wilson UK Limited and ICI Chemicals and 
Polymers. He is a non-executive director of Cellectricon AB, a Swedish 
private biotechnology business, and holds a D.Phil in chemistry.
Anne Hyland
Committee membership: A(c),  N,  R
Anne Hyland was appointed a non-executive director on 1 June 2013 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013. Between 2002 
and June 2013, she was CFO and company secretary of FTSE-listed 
Vectura Group plc. She stood down from that role in June 2013. Prior to 
Vectura, she held a number of senior finance positions (including director 
of corporate finance) at then FTSE 100 Celltech Group plc, Medeva plc 
and KPMG. She is a Chartered Accountant (FCA), a Corporate Tax Adviser 
(CTA – AITI) and holds a degree in business studies from Trinity College, 
Dublin. She is also a trustee of the charity Sustrans which campaigns for 
national cycling networks in the UK.
Key: A – Audit Committee N – Nomination Committee R – Remuneration Committee (c) – Chairman of Committee
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 24
Board of directors Greg McClatchy
President of Elementis Specialties 
(comprising Elementis Specialty 
Products and Elementis Surfactants)
Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Elementis Specialties in 
January 2007 . He joined Elementis Pigments in 1999, served as managing 
director of its Durham UK operations, and was appointed President of 
Specialty Rubber in 2002 and President of Elementis Chromium in 2005. 
He was previously with Universal Foods (now Sensient Technologies 
Corp) and ICI’s polymer additives business. Greg McClatchy completed 
his undergraduate studies in chemistry and economics at the University  
of Delaware.
Walker Allen
General Counsel and  
Chief Compliance Officer
Walker Allen joined Elementis as General Counsel in 1999 and was 
appointed General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer in 2006. Prior  
to joining Elementis, he was associate general counsel with GE Americom 
(a GE Capital company) and before that senior business counsel with GE 
Plastics (a division of General Electric Company). He began his legal 
career as a lawyer in private practice with two leading New York City law 
firms, where he specialised in corporate law, securities and mergers and 
acquisitions. Walker Allen is a member of the New York Bar and is 
admitted as in-house counsel in New Jersey.
Dennis Valentino
President of Elementis Chromium
Dennis Valentino re-joined Elementis as President of Elementis Chromium 
in April 2009. His previous positions at Elementis included managing 
director of Asia Pacific and President of Elementis Pigments until it 
was sold in August 2007 when he left the Group. Prior to Elementis, he 
joined Pfizer Pigments in 1975 and held various positions there including 
vice president of manufacturing and vice president of its North America 
Coatings business. Dennis Valentino completed his undergraduate 
studies in chemical engineering at the University of Missouri – Rolla, 
and obtained his MBA from St. Louis University.
Daniel Hughes
Chief Information Officer 
Daniel Hughes was appointed Chief Information Officer in September 
2013. He has held various senior leadership roles in Elementis Specialties 
since February 2007 . Primarily he has served as Vice President, Global 
Procurement and Supply Chain and been deeply engaged in our 
worldwide end to end business transactions. He also served as  
integration manager for our Deuchem, Yuhong, Fancor, Watercryl and 
Hi-Mar acquisitions. He holds a BA (Honours) degree from the University 
of East London and, prior to joining Elementis, held various senior 
procurement and supply chain positions at Engelhard Corporation 
and Ford Motor Company.
Wai Wong
Company Secretary 
Wai Wong joined Elementis and was appointed Company Secretary in 
May 2007 . He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators (‘ICSA’) and a member and accredited practitioner of the 
Chartered Institute of Public Relations. Prior to joining Elementis, he held 
a number of senior company secretarial positions including at John 
Menzies plc, ICSA and PricewaterhouseCoopers. He has a Bachelor’s 
degree in commerce and law from the University of Edinburgh and a 
Master’s degree in corporate and commercial law from Queen Mary 
College, University of London.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Senior executives Chairman’s letter on governance
Fundamental to the success of any organisation is the way it is governed 
and, for Elementis, this means the effectiveness of the Board and our 
governance arrangements.
The Board plays a critical role in defining the strategy and priorities of the 
Company whilst the management team, led by the Chief Executive, is 
responsible for executing strategy in attainment of set objectives and 
priorities. The Board is accountable to shareholders, and under law to 
other stakeholders, for the stewardship of the Company’s assets and 
for the generation and preservation of value over the longer term. This 
means being responsible for the decisions that are made about how the 
Company is funded and how its financial resources are invested. It also 
means being responsible for: (i) reviewing management and financial 
performance, (ii) how our business activities affect others (including the 
environment), (iii) the level of risk the Board is prepared to take in order 
to achieve strategic objectives and (iv) the way we conduct our business, 
which is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and in 
accordance with the expectations of our shareholders, stakeholders 
and often the wider societies in which we operate.
In other parts of this Annual Report, we give an account of the financial 
performance of the Company and our businesses, as well as the Group’s 
performance in relation to health, safety and environmental matters. 
Our Corporate responsibility report also describes other areas that 
shareholders are increasingly interested in, such as workforce diversity, 
wider human rights (including employment rights) and supply chain 
matters. Core to all these areas are the values and standards set by the 
Board and the policies and structures put in place so that all our activities 
are appropriately managed, monitored and reported. Our culture – which 
is one of performance, innovation, customer service, accountability and 
responsibility, compliance, openness and transparency – is something 
that is fostered by the Chief Executive, embedded throughout our  
global operations and binds our values, standards, policies and 
performance together.
Effective governance starts at the top, with clear roles, responsibilities and 
lines of reporting. Directors have to operate within applicable laws and 
regulations, which include corporate governance rules. In addition, directors 
have to operate within the mandate given to them from shareholders, for 
example, in the Company’s Articles of Association. On a more practical level, 
the directors also operate under agreed Board protocols and procedures, 
such as: (i) the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, (ii) the 
role descriptions of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent 
Director and (iii) service contracts and appointment letters. 
The Board is supported in carrying out its duties and responsibilities by 
a number of Board Committees, with defined terms of reference and, of 
course, an important aspect of effectiveness is the quality of the executive 
and senior management team. Skills, knowledge, experience and 
qualifications all contribute to the effectiveness of the Board and the 
executive management team. 
The primary groupwide governance document is our Group Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics which sets out in writing our values and the standards we 
expect of our employees and third party contractors. This document, together 
with other Group policies, govern how we conduct our business and the 
standards and responsibilities expected of all our employees. Group policies 
set the standards that drive performance. Compliance training and our culture 
help to enforce this. Board oversight, business reviews and compliance audits 
form part of the monitoring and supervision process. 
Table 1 below provides a high level overview of the Elementis governance 
framework and shows how the Corporate Governance Code’s main 
principles have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Board is of the view that it has applied fully throughout 2013 all of the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (both the 2010 and 
2012 versions). 
Ian Brindle
Chairman
25 February 2014
Table 1 – Elementis governance framework: application of Corporate Governance Code main principles
Shareholders Chairman CEO (supported by 
the management 
team)
Board Audit
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Leadership
Re-elect the  
Board annually.
Leads the Board,  
is responsible  
for all aspects  
of governance 
arrangements and 
provides advice and 
support to the CEO 
and Finance Director. 
Manages the 
businesses, develops 
and executes 
strategy, generates 
and preserves 
shareholder value, 
fosters corporate 
culture and monitors 
risk and compliance.
Provides strategic 
oversight of 
management, 
business 
performance and the 
values and standards 
for the Group, and 
retains a formal 
schedule of matters 
reserved for its 
decision.
Monitors the  
integrity of the 
financial statements, 
disclosures, reporting 
and controls, and 
oversees the role and 
work of the internal 
and external auditors.
Monitors Board 
composition, 
structure and overall 
effectiveness and  
is responsible for 
carrying out annual 
performance reviews, 
succession planning 
and making 
recommendations  
on new Board 
appointments.
Sets the policy  
for executive 
remuneration, 
determines and 
monitors overall level 
of remuneration and 
makes awards under 
all incentive plans 
including setting 
performance targets.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 26
Corporate governance report Shareholders Chairman CEO (supported by 
the management 
team)
Board Audit
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Effectiveness
Hold the Board  
to account for its 
stewardship of  
the Company  
and its assets.
Ensures all aspects of 
the Board’s operation 
(including information 
and support) and the 
relationship between 
executives and 
non-executives are 
effective, supported 
by the Company 
Secretary, policies 
and procedures.
Operates a 
transparent, no 
surprises culture and 
within a schedule of 
delegated authorities; 
reports regularly to 
the Board to keep all 
directors informed on 
all key aspects of the 
businesses: financial 
performance, major 
risks, opportunities 
and compliance 
issues, HSE 
performance and 
investor relations.
Programme of 
meetings, operational 
site visits, regular 
presentations from 
and interaction  
with the businesses, 
tailored induction with 
annual performance 
evaluation and 
on-going training  
and development 
activities all help 
Board members to 
contribute effectively.
Clear terms of reference define roles and responsibilities, programme of 
meetings support their work and all directors attend meetings so there is 
total transparency and a collective understanding of all major issues. 
No directors vote on 
matters concerning 
themselves.
Executive directors  
do not decide/vote  
on their own 
remuneration or on 
performance targets.
Accountability
Approve the Annual 
Report & Accounts.
Regular contact with 
and reports from CEO 
and Finance Director.
Ensures programme 
and processes 
effective for keeping 
the Board fully 
informed on all 
material aspects  
of the Group’s 
operations.
Oversight of  
financial reports, 
trading statements, 
other market 
communications, 
principal risks and 
uncertainties, and 
compliance and 
internal controls.
Report to the Board but Chairmen of Committees are accountable  
to shareholders for the work of the Committees.
Remuneration
Give a binding vote  
on the Remuneration 
policy report and  
an advisory vote  
on the rest of  
the Directors' 
remuneration report.
Determines with the 
executive directors 
the level of fees for  
the non-executives 
and is consulted by 
the Remuneration 
Committee  
over executive 
remuneration. 
Determines with  
the Chairman the  
level of fees for the 
non-executives.
N/A N/A N/A Determines the  
level of executive 
remuneration and  
the Chairman’s fee 
and consults with  
the Chairman,  
major shareholders 
and shareholder 
representative  
bodies on executive 
remuneration 
proposals.
Shareholder engagement
AGM, meetings with 
management and, 
where necessary,  
the Chairman or SID.
Maintains an 
appropriate level of 
engagement with 
shareholders and, in 
his absence or where 
inappropriate, the  
SID is available to 
shareholders if they 
have any concerns.
Maintains a 
programme of 
meetings with major 
shareholders to stay 
informed of investors’ 
views and ensures 
appropriate relations 
are kept with the 
financial press and 
market analysts.
Ensures processes 
are in place for the 
Board to be kept 
informed of investors’ 
views and market 
expectations; 
alternative channels 
exist for major 
shareholders to raise 
any issue of concern 
with the Board. 
Report to shareholders through the medium of the annual report and 
also the platform of the AGM.
Consults major 
shareholders and 
their representative 
bodies when 
proposing changes  
to executive 
remuneration.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27 Board composition
As identified on page 24, the Board comprises 2 executive directors (Chief 
Executive and Finance Director) and 4 non-executive directors (Chairman 
and 3 other non-executive directors). The number of non-executives will 
increase following the appointment of Andrew Duff on 1 April 2014. 
Information about the executive directors’ service contracts with the 
Company is set out in the Directors' remuneration report. All non-executive 
directors are appointed for three year terms that can be renewed by 
mutual agreement, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, 
satisfactory performance and meeting independence requirements. 
Non-executive directors who do not meet independence requirements 
under the Corporate Governance Code are appointed to hold office for  
1 year at a time.
When Robert Beeston retired as Chairman on 31 July 2013, Ian Brindle was 
appointed Chairman on 1 August 2013 until a more permanent replacement 
was recruited. During this period, Ian Brindle was both the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director. When Andrew Duff becomes Chairman after 
the AGM on 24 April 2014, Ian Brindle will continue in his role as the Senior 
Independent Director. Further details about the non-executive directors’ 
terms of appointment (including fee levels) are set out in the Directors' 
remuneration report. Changes are expected to be made to the Board’s 
composition this year, as described elsewhere in the Annual Report, in 
connection with the Board’s succession plans. 
Board diversity
The Board’s policy on gender diversity is that appointments will be  
made on the basis of qualification and a preference for a woman would 
only be given in the event that two candidates are equally matched in  
all other respects in relation to the role specification. In respect of the 
recommendations of the Davies Review into ‘Women on Boards’ in 2011, 
the Board has not set a minimum target for the percentage of the Board  
to be female. Since the Board is undergoing a refreshment process,  
this position will be kept under review during 2014. Gender diversity  
below Board level is discussed in the Corporate responsibility report. 
Board independence
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent  
in character and judgement throughout 2013. The Board is satisfied  
that each director exercises independent judgement and believes  
no individual or group dominates decision making. 
Board operation
As well as the summary in Table 1 on pages 26 and 27 the Board 
maintains a schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision which 
includes: approval of strategic and annual operating plans; approval of 
financial statements, acquisitions and disposals; risk compliance and 
management programmes, as well as insurance arrangements; major 
non-recurring projects and major capital expenditures; and major legal 
settlements and litigation. The Board reviews the business, financial and 
operational (‘HSE’) performance of the Group at each of its formal meetings, 
including major business initiatives, threats and opportunities, as well as 
progress on product innovation and new customers.
To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appropriate 
quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and committee 
meetings. If there are any unresolved matters concerning Board decisions, 
of which there were none in 2013, these would be recorded in the minutes of 
meetings. A programme exists to ensure new directors receive appropriate 
induction tailored to their needs. A tailored programme of induction was 
agreed with Anne Hyland on her appointment which included meeting the 
internal and external auditors, members of the management and business 
leadership teams, as well as the Company’s joint corporate brokers.  
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, 
at the expense of the Company. 
Director attendance in 2013
Board
Audit
 Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Ian Brindle 8/8 4/4 6/6
1
–
David Dutro 8/8 – – –
Brian Taylorson 8/8 – – –
Andrew Christie 8/8 4/4 6/6 8/8
2
Anne Hyland 5/5 3/3
3
4/4 5/5
Kevin Matthews 8/8 4/4 6/6 8/8
Former directors
Robert Beeston 3/5 – 2/3 –
Chris Girling 4/5 2/3 2/3 4/5
1
 Ian Brindle became Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2013.
2
  Andrew Christie became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on  
1 October 2013, a role previously held by Kevin Matthews until then. 
3
  Anne Hyland became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013, 
a role previously held by Chris Girling until then.
Communications with shareholders
A formal programme of activities is maintained throughout the year 
to ensure there is effective communications with shareholders, analysts 
and the financial press that include stock exchange announcements, 
investor meetings, the Annual Report and updates on the corporate 
website. In addition, the AGM gives institutional and private shareholders 
the opportunity to speak with the directors; the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions. 
The Board receives regular feedback reports from shareholders following 
meetings with management in results and other investor roadshows. 
Analysts’ forecasts and research reports about the Company and 
the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and reports from 
the Company’s joint corporate brokers, are provided to all directors 
on a timely basis, helping non-executive directors to develop a clear 
understanding of the views of major shareholders. The Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders 
at any time.
From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, in connection with 
remuneration proposals, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
will organise a programme of meetings with major shareholders to 
update them on any significant developments in business strategy, 
corporate governance matters or consult them on proposals for 
executive remuneration.
By order of the Board
Wai Wong
Company Secretary
25 February 2014
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 28
Corporate governance report
continued Chairman’s letter
This is my first report to shareholders and relates principally to the year end 
audit for 2013. In this introductory section, I provide a high level overview 
of the work of the Audit Committee (the ‘Committee’) in relation to the three 
principal areas of focus under the Corporate Governance Code:
• How, if any, significant accounting issues were considered 
and addressed.
• Evaluation of the effectiveness of the auditors.
• The reappointment of the auditors and safeguarding their objectivity 
and independence, particularly in relation to non-audit services.
A more detailed commentary on these and other areas is set out 
elsewhere in this report.
Significant accounting issues 
The primary areas of accounting judgement considered by the 
Committee in relation to the 2013 financial statements are listed below:
• Provisions 
The Committee reviewed a number of structural changes affecting the 
calculation of environmental provisions recorded in the ‘Consolidated 
balance sheet’. These included the expiration of a legacy indemnity 
given to a third party, a gradual change in the duration of project 
spending leading to a review of appropriate discount rates and progress 
updates on a number of key projects. The Committee concluded that 
several changes should be made to the calculation of environmental 
provisions in 2013 and these are more fully described in Note 15 to the 
‘Consolidated financial statements’. 
• Assumptions used to value pension scheme liabilities 
The Committee reviewed the assumptions used to value the liabilities of 
the UK, US and Dutch defined benefit pension schemes, as well as the 
US post retirement medical plan, which the Group’s actuarial advisers 
for each plan considered to be appropriate given the characteristics of 
each plan. 
• Revisions to IAS 19 Accounting for Employee Benefits 
The Committee reviewed the impact of the revised accounting 
standard on the Group’s financial statements, with particular 
emphasis on the new requirement to record pension plan 
administration costs in the ‘Consolidated income statement’ at the 
time those costs are incurred. The Committee considered the nature 
of these costs as well as the main characteristics of the Group’s 
relationship and interactions with its pension plans, noting that the 
majority of them are legacy schemes. As a result, the Committee 
concluded that shareholders and other stakeholders would gain a 
clearer understanding of the Group’s performance if, in recording 
pension administration costs in the ‘Consolidated income statement’, 
these costs were not included in ‘Operating profit’ but rather shown 
as a separate item described as ‘Other expenses’.
• Exceptional items 
The Committee reviewed a number of items recorded in the 
‘Consolidated income statement’ which it considered should be 
separately disclosed because of their size, nature and incidence, 
thereby providing the reader with a better understanding of the 
financial information presented. It concluded that these items should 
be shown separately in the ‘Consolidated income statement’ under 
a column headed ‘Exceptional items’. Further details of these items 
are included in Note 5 to the ‘Consolidated financial statements’.
Audit effectiveness
Judging the effectiveness of an audit can be a subjective matter, although 
performance is evaluated according to objective criteria. As Chairman of 
the Committee I meet with the audit partner frequently, including for both 
audit planning and review meetings. The Committee meets the audit 
partner and the senior manager at all four of its formal meetings but it is 
the Finance Director and finance teams who have most exposure to the 
audit team. 
One part of the evaluation process therefore involves the impressions and 
perceptions that are made and formed as a result of interactions between 
the Committee and senior members of the audit team, as well as the views 
and opinions of members of the management team. In addition to the 
above, Committee members are able to obtain a better understanding of 
the role and performance of the auditor through reviewing the quality of 
the work and materials presented by the auditors, as well as its quality 
and independence procedures. An important part of our process is the 
annual audit evaluation questionnaire which all Group finance managers 
are asked to complete and the result of which is then used by the 
Committee to assess audit effectiveness. The questionnaire used is 
the template produced by KPMG’s Audit Committee Institute which 
considers comprehensively different aspects of the audit process. 
Another way in which audit effectiveness can be monitored by the 
Committee is Audit Quality Inspection reports published by the FRC. 
The Committee considers the auditor’s performance to be satisfactory 
and that the audit is effective as measured against their letter of 
engagement and the scope of services agreed. 
Audit reappointment, objectivity and independence
KPMG were appointed as the Group’s auditor in 2004 and its first audit 
was in respect of the 2004 financial year, making the 2013 audit the firm’s 
tenth consecutive audit. Due to the length of service an audit tender 
was considered and it was concluded that a tender process was not 
necessary at this time as, during its 10 years in office, KPMG has rotated 3 
lead audit partners and one US audit partner, as well as the senior 
manager and audit team leaders periodically (every 3 to 4 years). This 
includes the appointment of a new lead audit partner in 2013. 
Current guidelines suggest that the Committee should undertake an  
audit tender process before 2018 (within 5 years of a change of partner). 
The Committee will keep this position under annual review and intends  
to carry out an audit tender process by 2018.
The comments concerning audit effectiveness also apply to audit 
objectivity and independence. The Committee is of the view that the 
auditors are objective and independent notwithstanding the level of 
non-audit services provided. The Company’s policy on non-audit 
services is more fully set out and explained in the next section.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board and the Committee have been briefed internally and by the 
auditors on governance requirements for the Annual Report, taken 
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable. The Board and 
Committee understand that ‘fair’ should mean reasonable and impartial, 
‘balanced’ should mean even-handed in terms of being positive and 
negative and ‘understandable’ should mean simple, clear and free from 
jargon or unnecessary clutter.
The Board and Committee consider the Annual Report for 2013, taken 
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, with appropriate 
signposting and emphasis being made, throughout the various sections, 
to assist shareholders understand the information and disclosures 
contained within them.
Anne Hyland
Chairman,  Audit Committee
25 February 2014
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29
Audit Committee report Figure 1 Information about the Committee
The composition of the Committee and biographical information about 
each member is shown on page 24. Both Anne Hyland and Ian Brindle  
are considered to have the necessary financial experience under 
governance requirements and all Committee members are considered  
to be independent. The table on page 28 shows the number of meetings 
that were held in 2013 together with directors’ attendance records.
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to:
• Monitor the integrity of Group financial statements and financial reporting 
and related statements, as well as the clarity and completeness of 
disclosures (including in narrative reports and governance statements 
accompanying financial statements and related statements).
• Ensure the appropriateness of accounting policies, any changes 
to them and any significant estimates and judgements made.
• Review the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk 
management systems (including whistleblowing arrangements). 
• Oversee all aspects of the relationship with the internal and external 
auditors, such as their terms of appointment, the scope, manner 
and programme of work, resourcing (where appropriate), 
performance and effectiveness, independence and objectivity 
(where appropriate) and dismissal. 
A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference is available on the 
Company’s website.
Operation of the Committee
An important aspect of the work of the Committee is the role of its 
Chairman who maintains close relationships with the Finance Director, 
General Counsel (who is also Chief Compliance officer) and both lead 
partners from the internal and external auditors. Thus, as well as formal 
meetings and presentations from these individuals to the Committee, the 
Chairman of the Committee is able to discuss any matter on an individual 
basis outside of formal meetings and report any issue to the Committee 
as appropriate. Another relevant feature is that Committee meetings are 
attended by all directors, as well as the external auditors, which helps 
ensure transparency, share knowledge and improve understanding.  
The Committee also meets with the external auditors once a year  
without management being present.
While the Committee’s remit includes reviewing the effectiveness of the 
internal control, compliance and risk management systems, the Board 
retains responsibility for risk management – see 'Risk management 
report' for further details. The Committee’s focus therefore is on financial, 
operational and compliance risks and the internal audit function, which 
is outsourced to PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’), plays a significant 
role in the Group’s internal control process.
The Committee’s priorities are to monitor and keep under review our 
internal control and risk management system which is designed for the 
purposes of preventing material financial loss and fraud, safeguarding 
the value of assets (including reputation) and ensuring compliance with 
laws, regulations and Group policies.
The relationship between the Board, Audit Committee and management 
is shown in Figure 1.
Internal control and risk management system
The Group’s internal control and risk management system is only 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and therefore the Board can only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss. 
The Board is of the view that an on-going process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group was in 
place throughout the financial year under review and up to the date that 
this Annual Report was approved. No significant internal control failings 
or weaknesses were reported last year so none is disclosed here.
Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Group’s internal 
control system.
Control environment
The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities 
of business and site management, including authority levels, reporting 
disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal control. 
In addition annual compliance statements on internal control are certified 
by each operating division.
Risk identification and review
A formal risk review process exists for the identification, evaluation and 
monitoring of risks. See separate 'Risk management report'.
Financial reporting
The Group operates a comprehensive financial reporting system including 
forecasts, consolidation and monthly reporting. Board reports include full 
management accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss 
statements, cash flow statements and balance sheet, with segmental and 
individual business performance analyses, as well as relevant performance 
indicators. Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, forecasts 
and the previous year’s results. Any significant variances are investigated 
and acted upon as appropriate. As well as monthly management accounts, 
each operating division prepares an annual and a three year operating plan 
which is approved by the Board. Thereafter a formal re-forecasting exercise 
is undertaken three times a year.
Investment appraisal
There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital expenditure. 
All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation procedures, 
with major proposals being considered by the Board.
Board
Sound internal control
and risk management systems 
Audit Committee
Internal controls
Management team
Risk management
implementation/control
2
1
4 3
Key:
1 – Internal audit programme
2 – Oversight of Internal control and risk management system
3 – Risk review process 
4 – Oversight of external auditors
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 30
Audit Committee report
continued Internal audit programme
An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in consultation with the 
Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee each year, setting 
out a programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months. The 
programme covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls 
and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
Controls assurance
The controls assurance framework at Elementis is threefold:
• Board leadership supported by an open and transparent culture 
of ‘no surprises’, good governance and compliance. This means 
knowing and understanding the businesses, quality interactions 
between the Board, management and business leadership 
teams (including a regular programme of presentations and 
reports to the Board, as well as operational site visits).
• Internal and external audit programme, regular litigation and 
compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a programme 
of compliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental 
reviews and property surveys by external specialists.
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in which all employees are 
given training on and are required to self-certify compliance with, 
supplemented by an online compliance training programme, an 
anti-bribery and corruption policy, which contractors are also 
required to sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an 
anti-retaliation policy. 
Non-audit services 
In 2013, non-audit services of $0.6 million from KPMG were approved 
by the Committee (2012: $0.8 million). These services consisted mainly 
of tax advisory services in relation to the US, UK, the Netherlands, 
Germany, China, Taiwan and Brazil. KPMG’s knowledge of the business 
meant it could provide these services cost effectively and the safeguards 
explained previously mean the Committee does not consider the 
provision of these services to affect the auditor’s independence 
and objectivity.
The Company’s policy on non-audit services contains guidance on the 
types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be considered for. 
This guidance is in addition to other specified factors that must be taken 
into consideration, such as the expertise and resources of the firm, 
whether the services could risk jeopardising audit independence and 
the fee relative to the audit fee. Examples of services that the external 
auditors may and may not be allowed to perform under the policy can 
be found on the Company’s website under ‘governance/board 
committees/related information’.
Under the policy, the Finance Director may approve individual 
engagements where the fee is up to 15 per cent of the Group’s audit fee 
for the previous year, provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do 
not exceed 50 per cent of that Group audit fee. Decisions above these 
thresholds must be referred to the Committee for determination.
Programme of work
The table below summarises the Committee’s programme of work in 
2013 and gives a descriptive account of how the Committee discharged 
its responsibilities.
February Reviewed the 2012 Annual Report (and associated press 
release accompanying the preliminary results statement), 
management representation letter to the auditors, internal 
control and going concern statements, litigation and 
compliance reports (including on whistleblowing), the 
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors, 
considered the year end tax report, approved the description 
of the work of Committee in the Annual Report and 
recommended the reappointment of the external auditors.
June Reviewed half year report from the internal auditors (PwC) 
including reporting arrangements, considered a risk 
management report from management on business 
continuity planning, considered the Committee’s activities 
and the resources available to it and also training undertaken 
by Committee members and discussed tendering of the 
internal and external audit and tax adviser roles. 
July Reviewed the 2013 interim results announcement 
(incorporating the management report and condensed 
financial statements and notes), management 
representation letter to the auditors and the half year 
litigation, compliance and tax reports.
December Reviewed year end report from the internal auditors and the 
effectiveness of the internal audit programme, approved the 
reappointment of PwC as internal auditors and agreed fees 
and a programme of work for 2014, considered the external 
audit plan for 2013, reviewed the external auditors’ quality 
control procedures, independence and objectivity, 
considered their length of tenure, rotation of key partners 
and the audit market, reviewed also the Group’s policy on 
non-audit services and the level of expenditure incurred on 
non-audit services with the external auditors and approved 
the level of fees for and the letter of engagement with the 
external auditors. 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31 The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee (the 
‘Committee’) are shown on page 24, together with their biographical 
information. Six meetings were held during 2013 and the attendance 
records of Committee members are shown on page 28.
A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference is available on the 
Company’s website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities:
• Reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together with 
the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members 
and making recommendations for change as necessary.
• Carrying out an annual performance evaluation of the Board, 
its committees and individual members.
• Keeping succession planning for the Board and senior executive 
team under review.
The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show 
how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2013:
• Discussed and made a recommendation to the Board on the 
candidates for the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
• Held a meeting of directors without the executives present to 
discuss the performance of the executive directors and the 
strategic direction and priorities of the Company.
• Met to consider: (i) Robert Beeston’s retirement as Chairman, 
(ii) plans for initiating a search for a new Chairman, including the 
appointment of Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann (‘Korn/Ferry’) to 
assist in the process and (iii) approving a Chairman’s role 
specification. The process was led by Ian Brindle who was the 
Senior Independent Director prior to his appointment as Chairman 
on 1 August 2014. Korn/Ferry has no connections with the 
Company other than as the retained recruitment adviser.
• Received presentations from Korn/Ferry concerning a long-list  
and short-list of potential Chairman candidates, discussed these  
lists and selected from the short-list candidates for interview.
• Carried out a questionnaire based evaluation of the performance 
of the Board, its Committees and individual directors (including any 
training needs). The questionnaire was designed in-house and 
feedback from the evaluation was discussed which concerned 
mainly the Board refreshment programme and the Group’s strategy, 
growth plans and business KPIs. Following this evaluation, the Board 
considers that each director continues to perform effectively and 
demonstrates appropriate commitment to his/her role. Shareholders 
are therefore asked to support the election/re-election of all directors 
at the AGM.
• Reviewed and approved a draft Chairman’s letter of appointment 
and a list of topics and materials for inclusion in a tailored induction 
programme for a new Chairman. 
• Discussed the progress on recruiting a new Chairman and made a 
recommendation to the Board on the appointment of a new Chairman.
Shareholders may find the biographical information provided on page 24 
useful to help them understand how a director’s background or 
experience shapes or influences the contribution he or she makes to the 
operation and effectiveness of the Board. This will also assist shareholders 
in assessing the skills and experience of the Board, as a whole, when 
determining how to vote on certain resolutions at the AGM.
As explained in my Chairman’s statement, further changes will be made 
to the Board during 2014 and Korn/Ferry has been retained to assist the 
Board in the process.
 
Ian Brindle
Chairman
25 February 2014
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 32
Nomination Committee report Director’s roles have increased considerably. Our market 
capitalisation has increased by more than threefold from the time  
of the last review to the end of 2013 and the performance of the  
CEO has been critical to this improvement.
• The Committee has therefore awarded David Dutro a salary increase 
of 10.8 per cent with effect from January 2014, to bring his salary 
closer to market levels against other US-listed specialty chemicals 
companies with a broadly similar level of turnover and market 
capitalisation. The increased salary is also within the range for 
CEOs of comparable UK companies.
• Based on our review, the Committee also decided to award  
Brian Taylorson an increase (also for 2014) of 3 per cent which  
is in line with the increase for the workforce as a whole.
• For the Chief Executive, variable pay opportunity is below market 
against comparable US companies. However, in the light of the 
pending Board changes mentioned, at this time the structure and 
operation of the annual bonus scheme and LTIP for 2014 will remain 
substantially the same.
• LTIP awards to be made will be subject to the same mix of 
challenging EPS and TSR based performance conditions as the 
awards made in 2013. 
• The annual bonus scheme will also operate on the same basis as in 
2013 except that a H1 bonus based on H1 performance will no longer 
be included. In addition, the AWC metric (25 per cent weighting,  
75 per cent being EPS) will be simplified for 2014, with a single target 
figure for 100 per cent vesting under this metric as opposed to the 
sliding scale that applied in previous years. The single target figure  
will be based on prior year performance. The Committee has set the 
target at a level that is consistent with the 2014 operating plan and  
to encourage achievement of growth objectives. 
• During 2013 Brian Taylorson opted out of future pension accrual under 
the UK defined benefit pension scheme and, instead, received a cash 
salary supplement. Following a review later in the year, the Committee 
decided to simplify his pension provision and from 2014 he receives 
an annual single cash supplement equivalent to the value of his 
previous pension arrangements (74 per cent of his salary). This 
commitment will last until the end of November 2015. Further details 
are given on page 42. 
• A 3 yearly review of fees for the Chairman and other non-executive 
directors was also carried out last year which resulted in an increase 
to the total amount of fees payable in 2014. This increase brings fees 
up to a level commensurate with market practice, the size of Elementis 
and the responsibilities and time commitment of the roles. The last 
review was carried out in December 2010. 
The Committee consulted with its major shareholders, the ABI and 
ISS on changes to remuneration.
Your directors were very pleased to receive a significant level of support 
for our Remuneration report from shareholders at last year’s AGM. We 
hope you will vote for the two resolutions on the Directors’ remuneration 
report (being a binding vote on the remuneration policy and an advisory 
vote on the rest of this report) and thank you for your continuing support.
Andrew Christie
Chairman,  Remuneration Committee
25 February 2014
 
Chairman’s annual statement on remuneration
Introduction
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ remuneration report for 2013 
which has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration 
Committee (the ‘Committee’).
As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Board is undergoing 
a refreshment process that will likely lead to a review of our Group strategy 
and how executive remuneration should be aligned with this strategy. 
Accordingly, the Committee has decided to make only limited changes 
this year, following a 3 yearly review flagged in last year’s remuneration 
report and carried out with assistance from New Bridge Street. The 
changes that are being implemented in 2014 concern mainly salaries 
and pensions, whilst variable remuneration (annual bonus scheme and 
long term incentive plan (‘LTIP’)) will be reviewed in 2014 and any change  
in policy will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2015 
AGM, after consultation with major shareholders and shareholder 
consultative bodies.
Remuneration policy
The over-riding objective of the Committee in determining the Company’s 
remuneration policy is to ensure that the Company can attract and retain 
individuals of the highest calibre who individually and collectively 
contribute to the long term success of the Group and the creation of 
shareholder value. We are very aware that as an international company 
with our operational headquarters in the US and operations throughout 
the world, we are very often competing for talent in a global market where 
remuneration practices may be different from the UK. This is especially 
true for our US-based employees. The principles and values that underpin 
our remuneration policy are applied on a consistent basis for all Group 
employees, whilst recognising geographic differences in such an 
international organisation.
There is a strong link between the remuneration policy and our business 
strategy. In particular, the performance metrics used for the annual bonus 
scheme and long term incentive plan are a subset of the Company’s key 
performance indicators.
2013 overview
The Group delivered another year of solid financial performance in 
challenging market conditions which will result in the executive directors 
receiving bonus payments equal to 55.91 per cent of their basic salaries.
Under the LTIP , performance periods for the awards granted in 2011 
ended in 2013 and the EPS and TSR measures were met in full. 
Elementis delivered shareholder return over the three year period of 
131 per cent, ranking the Company amongst the top 15 per cent of 
companies in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts). 
EPS growth over the same period was 67 per cent. The Committee 
believes that this reward outcome is fully justified based on the 
Company’s performance over the period.
2014 policy changes
The following summarises the application of our remuneration policy in 
the current year:
• A remuneration review was carried out last year to examine whether 
our executive remuneration levels remain market competitive. For 
our Chief Executive, who is a US national and is based in the US, this 
required examining remuneration levels and practices in both the US 
and the UK. Since the last review was carried out in 2010, the size of 
the Company and the complexity of both the CEO’s and Finance 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33
Directors’ remuneration report  Effective date and duration of remuneration policy
This part of the Directors’ remuneration report (the ‘Remuneration policy report’) sets out the remuneration policy for the directors of the Company that  
is being put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM. Subject to receiving majority shareholder support, this Remuneration policy report will be 
effective from the date of approval at the AGM on 24 April 2014 and apply until shareholders next consider and vote on a new Remuneration policy report 
which may be as early as the 2015 AGM as noted above. 
Link between policy, strategy and structure
Our remuneration policy is principally designed to attract, motivate and retain the executive directors and business presidents to execute effectively our 
corporate and business strategies in order to deliver our annual operating plans and sustainable year on year profitable growth, as well as to generate 
and preserve value for our shareholders over the longer term, without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking. The principles and values that underpin 
our remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent basis for all our Group employees. It is our policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and 
by reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
The Committee’s policy is to adequately reward the directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their 
remuneration packages. 
The remuneration structure for executive directors is made up of two elements: fixed remuneration (consisting of basic salary, benefits (including for 
example non-contributory health insurance and life assurance) and pension provision) and variable remuneration (annual bonus scheme and long 
term share incentives).
Policy table
The information in the table below sets out the remuneration policy for the different elements that make up total remuneration applying to directors.  
Basic salary
   Purpose and link to Company’s strategy Targeted at a level to attract and retain the world class executives who are essential to drive the 
business forward and deliver the Company’s strategic goals. 
   How it operates in practice Formal salary review normally every three years, with benchmarking analysis utilised for reference 
purposes against relevant market comparators as appropriate, taking into account the size of the 
Company (revenue and market capitalisation), complexity of the roles (including changes to both 
size and roles) and individual performance.
Annual salary increases that are broadly in line with the local workforce (in percentage of salary 
terms), subject to Committee approval.
Increases beyond the average of those granted to the local workforce (in percentage of salary 
terms) may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a material change in 
responsibility or experience of the individual, to recognise exceptional performance over a 
sustained period or a significant increase in the complexity, size or value of the Company.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a 
series of increases above those granted to the local workforce (in percentage of salary terms) may 
be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in December and any changes are effective from 1 January in the 
following year.
   Maximum potential value There is no prescribed maximum for salary increases. The Committee will be guided by the 
general increase for the local workforce and/or broader workforce as a whole, as well as the 
circumstances listed above.
Salaries for 2014:
Chief Executive $850,000 
Finance Director £328,364
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Remuneration policy report
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 34 Benefits
   Purpose and link to Company’s strategy To aid retention and to remain competitive in the marketplace.
Healthcare benefits in order to minimise business disruption. 
Executive directors may also participate along with other employees in the Group’s HMRC 
approved SAYE, or other equivalent savings based, share schemes to share in the success 
of the Group.
   How it operates in practice Life assurance and private medical health insurance are provided. 
Provision of either a company car (for business and personal purposes) or a car allowance, 
in both cases having a value that is consistent and commensurate with the executive’s status 
and seniority.
Participation in all employee/savings based share option schemes as above.
In addition benefits in the US, where it is standard, include cover for dental costs, 
accidental death and disablement, long term disability and club membership.
   Maximum potential value SAYE/savings-based schemes are subject to individual limits. These are $2,000 per month 
in the US and in the UK up to the HMRC prescribed limit (currently £250 per month and from 
April 2014 £500 per month). 
Other benefits: the Committee will determine the level of benefit it considers as appropriate, 
taking into consideration local market practice.
Annual cash bonus scheme
  Purpose and link to Company’s strategy To incentivise the senior management team to exceed the annual operating plans approved 
by the Board at the start of each financial year.
To ensure that a significant proportion of an executive’s total remuneration is based 
on corporate/business financial performance that is linked to the Company’s annual 
operating plan.
  How it operates in practice An annual cash bonus is earned based on over-performance against selected performance 
measures which are linked to the Company’s key performance indicators.
Bonus payments are paid following the approval of full year results. Payments are based  
on salaries at the time of payment.
The Committee may claw back bonuses paid that are later found to have been based on 
performance that was mis-stated or incorrectly calculated.
  Maximum potential value 1 times basic salary.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35 Annual cash bonus scheme (continued)
  Framework used to assess performance Bonus is based on the achievement of challenging financial targets which are set relative to 
the annual operating plan, taking into account general GDP factors, consensus brokers’ 
forecasts and current and past performance of the businesses, together with any organic 
or acquisitive growth plans.
The Company’s bonus is determined on performance against key performance indicators. 
The bonus measures may include (and are not limited to): 
• Earnings per share (‘EPS’) or other measures of profitability.
• Group average trade working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage (‘AWC’) 
or other cash flow performance measures.
For profit related performance measures, targets are set at threshold, plan and stretch level 
with bonus accruing from 0 per cent to 100 per cent (increasing on a straight line basis) for 
performance between threshold and stretch.
The Committee keeps performance metrics under review on an annual basis to ensure they 
continue to remain appropriate and has the discretion to amend the weighting. The precise 
metrics chosen and weighting ascribed to each may vary, as detailed in the policy above, in 
line with the Company’s evolving strategy. The profit related element of annual bonus shall 
not be less than 50 per cent of total bonus opportunity.
Long term incentives
   Purpose and link to Company’s strategy The LTIP is the sole long term incentive mechanism and is intended to align the interests of 
the executives with the Group’s long term performance, business strategy and broader 
interests of shareholders.
When granting awards under the LTIP the Committee generally takes into consideration 
the need to motivate and retain the executive directors and other participants.
The number of options/conditional shares awarded, up to the maximum limit, is based on  
the average mid-market closing price of a share on the date preceding the date of award.
   How it operates in practice Nil cost options or conditional shares are awarded annually. Options are exercisable 3 years 
from, and within 10 years of, the date of award. Share awards vest on the 3
rd
 anniversary of the 
date of award.
Awards are subject to the achievement of challenging performance conditions and normally 
subject to continued service over the vesting period.
Tax rules mean US participants will generally exercise and sell at least part of any options/
shares that vest on the date of vesting, in order to meet tax liabilities.
   Maximum potential value In the case of the Chief Executive, the maximum award is limited to 150 per cent of his basic 
salary at the time of the award.
For other executive directors, the maximum value of any award under the LTIP is 1 times 
an individual’s basic salary, plus up to 50 per cent of the Chief Executive’s basic salary 
(fixed at its 2010 level but this base level is re-valued annually (on a compound basis) by 
the same percentage increase each participant receives on his own basic salary in each 
subsequent year).
Remuneration policy report (continued)
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 36
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Long term incentives
  Framework used to assess performance Awards are subject to achievement of financial (EPS, ROCE or any other relevant company 
financial KPI) and/or relative TSR performance conditions measured over 3 financial 
years beginning with the financial year in which the award is made. TSR will be measured 
against a broad equity index, or a bespoke group of appropriate comparator companies.
In determining the target range for any financial measures that may apply, the Committee 
ensures they are challenging by taking into account current and anticipated trading conditions, 
the long term business plan and external market expectations. For any financial performance 
condition, threshold vesting will start from 0 per cent and for any relative TSR performance 
condition, threshold vesting will start at 3.85 per cent. In both cases this will increase on a 
straight line basis with 100 per cent vesting for achieving the stretch targets, which for the 
TSR performance condition will require at least upper quartile performance.
Pension
  Purpose and link to Company’s strategy To aid retention and remain competitive in the marketplace.
To provide appropriate retirement benefits commensurate with local market practice, 
seniority of the role and tenure with the Company together with giving the executives  
an opportunity to contribute to their own retirement.
  How it operates in practice Policy for new recruits is for a pension contribution and/or cash in lieu.
The policy for the current Chief Executive and Finance Director is set out below.
Group Chief Executive
David Dutro receives an annual salary supplement of 20 per cent of his basic salary as part 
of his contractual entitlement and as a US employee he also participates in two defined 
contribution schemes being: (i) a US 401(k) Plan, which is similar to a money purchase 
scheme, and (ii) a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the ‘Defined Contribution 
plans’). The latter plan mirrors the 401(k) Plan except it allows for contributions in respect of 
pensionable remuneration over an annual compensation limit set by the US Internal Revenue 
Service (2013: $255,000). The employer match under these two plans includes a regular 
match of up to 4 per cent of total pensionable remuneration and a supplemental match  
of up to 4 per cent, based on age and length of service.
Finance Director
Brian Taylorson receives a single annual salary supplement which broadly matches the  
value of his previous pension provision.
  Maximum potential value The policy for new executives is for a company contribution of up to 30 per cent of salary. 
Under the policy the maximum for the CEO is 20 per cent of his salary and up to 8 per cent 
of pensionable remuneration depending on the amount of personal contributions made  
into the Defined Contribution plans.
The maximum for the Finance Director, under the policy, is a salary supplement of  
74 per cent of his salary until he reaches his 60th birthday. Thereafter, the Committee  
will consider, as appropriate, a new arrangement in line with market practice at the time.
Legacy arrangements exist for existing employees.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 Share ownership guidelines
   Purpose and link to Company’s strategy To align an executive’s interests with those of shareholders and to encourage executives 
to participate and share in the success of the Group.
  How it operates in practice Executive directors are expected to build up a stake in the Company that is equal in value 
to one times their basic annual salary.
The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines and can make changes to 
them from time to time.
Non-executive Chairman and directors’ fees
  Purpose and link to Company’s strategy To attract individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience that the Board 
considers necessary in order to maintain an optimal mix that ensures the effectiveness 
of the Board as a whole in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
  How it operates in practice Non-executive directors’ fees are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors, 
having regard to fees paid to non-executive directors in other UK quoted companies and 
the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
In the case of the Chairman, the fee level is determined by the Committee. As well as taking 
into consideration the above factors, the Committee sets the fee at an appropriate level 
necessary to attract a role holder qualified to effectively lead the board of a company of  
a similar size and prestige as Elementis.
Fees are normally reviewed every 3 years with changes taking effect from 1 January  
in the following year.
Fees are payable in cash and non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any 
pension, bonus or share incentive schemes. No individual is allowed to vote on his/her 
own remuneration.
Remuneration policy report (continued)
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 38
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and  
long term incentive plans are a subset of the Company’s key  
performance indicators.
In terms of annual performance targets, EPS is a clear measure of the 
Company’s earnings growth, AWC encourages the most efficient use 
of working capital and cash flow ensures earnings are turned into cash. 
These metrics are aligned with the Company’s objectives and strategy.
With regards to long term performance targets, EPS growth or 
ROCE targets may be used and these are aligned with the long term 
levels of profitability and growth of the Company. A relative TSR 
condition ensures that there is clear alignment between shareholders 
and executives.
Where appropriate, targets are set based on sliding scales that take 
account of internal planning and external market expectations for 
the Company. Only modest rewards are available for delivering 
performance at threshold levels or above with maximum rewards 
requiring substantial out-performance of our challenging plans 
approved at the start of each year.
The intended targets for awards to be granted under the Long Term 
Incentive Plan in 2014 are consistent with the policy set out in the policy 
table and are set out in the ‘Annual report on remuneration’ on page 42.
The Committee does not incorporate corporate or business performance 
in environmental, social and governance matters when setting targets 
in the variable parts of remuneration. The safety and environmental 
performance of Group businesses is accorded high importance and the 
Committee considers that management should aspire to achieving high 
standards in both safety and environmental performance without the need 
for incentives. Governance standards are set by the Board as a whole.
Differences in executive remuneration policy compared to 
other employees 
The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider 
Company when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors. 
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the 
broader Company and, in particular the UK and US based employees, 
when determining salary increases for the executive directors.
The same principles and values behind the design of remuneration for 
the executive directors and business presidents apply to other senior 
managers and employees throughout the rest of the Group, with 
modifications to reflect local market practice and the level of seniority 
and ability to influence Group performance. Overall, the remuneration 
policy for executive directors is more heavily weighted towards variable 
pay than for other employees. This ensures that there is a clear link 
between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration 
received by the executive directors given it is the executive directors 
who are considered to have the greatest potential to influence 
shareholder value creation.
The level of variable pay varies by level of employee within the 
Company and is informed by the specific responsibilities of each 
role and local market practice as appropriate.
How the views of employees are taken into account
The Company does not actively consult with employees on executive 
remuneration. The Group has a diverse workforce operating in nine 
different countries, with various local pay practices, which would 
make any cost effective consultation impractical. However, as noted 
above, when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors, 
the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions 
for other employees in the Group. This process ensures that any annual 
increase to the basic pay of executive directors is not out of proportion 
with that proposed for other employees.
£’000
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
726
2,089
Chief Executive Ofcer
Fixed On-Target Maximum
100%
29%
52%
19%
39%
35%
26%
1,408
£’000
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
Finance Director
Fixed On-Target Maximum
591
1,039
1,489
100%
16%
57%
27%
38%
40%
22%
The tables above illustrate the potential pay opportunities for the executive directors under three different scenarios for 2014. The CEO’s remuneration 
has been converted into pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 ($1.56:£1).
1. Fixed: Comprises fixed pay being the value of salary, benefits and pension (benefits and, for the CEO, the employer’s matching contribution to 
Defined Contribution plans are included at their 2013 level).
2. On-Target: The amount receivable assumes performance in which 50 per cent of annual bonus is payable and 50 per cent of long term 
incentive awards vest. 
3. Maximum: the maximum amount receivable should all stretch targets be met and vesting under both the annual bonus scheme and LTIP is 100 per cent.
When valuing the LTIP options under the On-Target and Maximum scenarios, no account of any share price appreciation is taken into account.
Reward scenario analysis
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39 Recruitment policy
For executive director recruitment and/or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the policy outlined below.
Element Policy
   Basic salary Basic salary levels will be set in accordance with the Company’s remuneration policy, taking into account the experience 
and calibre of the individual (eg typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity) 
or salary levels may be set below this level (eg if the individual was promoted to the Board). Where it is appropriate to offer 
a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the following 
few years subject to individual performance and development in the role. 
  Benefits New directors may be entitled to benefits such as life assurance, private medical health insurance, cover for dental  
costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability, club membership and provision of either a company  
car (for business and personal purposes) or a car allowance or any other appropriate benefit.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses for a maximum period of 
12 months to facilitate recruitment. 
  Pension A company contribution into a pension plan and/or cash supplement of up to 30 per cent of salary. 
Legacy pension arrangements for promotees which may include defined benefit or US style arrangements may  
continue to operate on their existing terms.
  Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate as outlined for current executive directors, with the respective maximum opportunity, 
albeit pro-rated for the proportion of the year served. Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment  
it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
  Long term incentives Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive directors on an annual basis. 
An award may be made shortly after an appointment (subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period). For an 
internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the 
date of grant. In addition, if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board director for 
that financial year, the Committee’s policy would include flexibility to top up awards for that year (subject to the overall 
individual salary limit) based on the executive’s new salary.
  Buy-out awards In the case of external hire, if it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements (which would be forfeited 
on leaving the previous employer), this would be provided for taking into account the form (cash or shares) and timing 
and expected value (i.e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria) of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards may be granted using the Company’s LTIP (up to the individual limit) or outside of the LTIP  
if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules. 
Outside board appointments
The Company’s policy is to support an executive should they wish to take on 
an external board appointment, provided that there is no conflict of interest 
and any role does not interfere with the executive’s commitment or duties.  
If an executive does take on an external appointment they may retain any fees 
paid and will be restricted generally to only one such external appointment.
Service contracts
Executive directors’ service contracts contain a termination notice 
period not exceeding 12 months.
Name Date of contract Notice period
David Dutro,  CEO 16 January 2007 12 months
Brian Taylorson,  Finance Director 5 June 2005 12 months
Policy on payment for loss of office
For the existing executive directors, the terms covering termination were 
agreed at the date their contracts were made. The Finance Director is 
required, however, to mitigate his loss in the event of loss of office by 
making efforts to secure a new position. Payments in lieu of notice to 
both the Chief Executive and Finance Director may be reduced or ceased 
if they secure a new position. In the case of the Chief Executive, the 
payments will only be ceased if his salary in his new position is equal to 
or more than his salary on termination; if not his monthly payments will 
be reduced by the gross salary earned by the Chief Executive in his  
new position each month. 
For any new appointments, it is the Company’s policy to follow current market 
practice and preclude the inclusion of any payment (benefits, bonus or 
pension) other than basic salary in the calculation of termination payments 
Remuneration policy report (continued)
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 40
Directors’ remuneration report
continued (being one year’s salary) and a notice period of 12 months. Payments will 
be phased on a monthly basis over the remaining notice period and the 
Committee’s position is to ensure a director mitigates the loss to the Company.
Termination payments
Group Chief Executive
The maximum amount payable under David Dutro’s contract is basic 
salary during his notice period (12 months) and any bonus he may be 
eligible to receive for the period he was employed, subject to performance. 
Alternatively the Company may pay compensation in lieu of the notice 
period of a lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary, with up to a 
further 50 per cent payable in six monthly instalments after six months 
(in both cases pro-rated for the actual notice period). This would apply 
if the Company terminates his contract for any reason other than for 
cause or if he invokes a ‘good leaver’ reason for terminating his contract 
(ie, upon a change of control in which the successor company is not 
bound to honour his service contract). 
Finance Director
The maximum amount that would be payable to Brian Taylorson for 
payment in lieu of notice by the Company for any reason other than for 
cause is an initial lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary and other 
benefits described below and up to a further 50 per cent payable in a 
lump sum after six months, subject to the Committee being satisfied that 
reasonable efforts to secure a new position have been made during the 
six months following termination. Other benefits comprise: (i) the sums 
that would normally be payable to him in respect of his pension benefits 
pro-rated according to notice period being given/served, (ii) the cost of 
providing private medical insurance for him, his spouse and any children 
under 21 for the 12 months following termination and (iii) his monthly car 
allowance for a 12 month period. 
The above summary only addresses contractual rights to payments in 
lieu of notice, or during the relevant director’s notice period, and may not 
reflect any settlement or compromise sums which are separately agreed 
at the point of termination.
Committee discretion with regard to incentive plans
For any outstanding LTIP awards, these are governed by rules of the plan 
and only in limited circumstances is discretion permitted. In such 
circumstances, the Committee retains the use of discretion in its 
administration of the LTIP as contained in the plan rules.
In the specific event of loss of office any discretion exercised would 
depend on the circumstances at that time and the performance achieved 
during the performance period. In the event of the death of an executive 
director and an award has not yet vested the Committee, acting in its 
absolute discretion, may determine vesting from maturity rather than 
date of death. If an executive director ceases employment due to injury, 
ill health, disability, redundancy, transfer out of the Group/sale of 
business or retirement with employer’s consent and an award has not 
yet vested the Committee, acting in its absolute discretion, may allow 
early vesting at the date of cessation rather than at date of vesting.  
All such awards would still be subject to performance conditions, which 
the Committee may not waive, as well as pro-rating for time which the 
Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may waive in part or in full if  
it considers acting fairly and reasonably it is appropriate to do so.
Similar provisions apply in the event of a change of control, with 
performance measured up to the date of the relevant event and 
normally scaling back pro rata for time.
It is the Committee’s policy to exercise these discretions in a way that 
would be in the best interests of the Company and depending on the 
individual circumstances of each case. 
If an executive director resigns or is dismissed LTIP awards lapse  
and the Committee has no discretion under the rules.
The Company operates an annual cash bonus scheme in which 
participation and payments are made subject to the discretion of the 
Committee. However, under his service contract, the Chief Executive 
may be eligible to receive a bonus relating to the Company’s financial 
performance during his 12 month notice period, provided all performance 
conditions have been met. Where the Committee has any discretion, its 
policy is to exercise any discretion in the Company’s best interests and 
depending on the individual circumstances of each case. 
Legacy matters
Once adopted, this Remuneration policy report will apply from the date  
of approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. However, legacy awards 
or other commitments, including those made prior to 27 June 2012 but 
not modified or renewed after that date, to current or former directors 
may still be paid notwithstanding that they have only been incorporated 
by reference and not been fully described in this Remuneration policy 
report. These legacy awards and commitments comprise the LTIP awards 
made in 2012 and 2013, as more fully described in the ‘Annual report 
on remuneration’.
Non-executive directors’ terms of appointment
Non-executive directors are appointed for a three year term, subject to 
annual re-election by shareholders. For non-executive directors who have 
served for nine years or more, they may be appointed for a further year at a 
time. Each letter of appointment provides that the director’s appointment 
can be terminated by the Company on six months’ notice on any grounds 
without claim for compensation. 
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, 
bonus or share incentive schemes. No individual is allowed to vote on 
his/her own remuneration.
The table below provides further details of the letters of appointment 
that the non-executive directors held with the Company during 2013.
Name
Date of 
appointment
Date of last
reappointment
Date of
 expiry
Non-executive directors
I Brindle
1
06/06/05 06/06/11 05/06/14
A Christie 11/08/08 11/08/11 10/08/14
A Hyland 01/06/13 N/A 31/05/16
K Matthews
2
16/02/05 16/02/14 15/02/15
Past directors
R Beeston
3
 21/09/06 21/09/12 N/A
C Girling
3
29/04/05 29/04/11 N/A
1
  Subject to his re-election at the 2014 AGM, it is intended that Ian Brindle  
will be reappointed for another year from 6 June 2014.
2
  Kevin Matthews’ letter of appointment expired on 15 February 2014  
and he was reappointed for a further 1 year term.
3
 Retired on 31 July 2013.
Copies of the executive directors’ service contracts and all letters of 
appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection  
at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and  
will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Shareholder engagement
The Committee encourages dialogue with the Company's shareholders 
and would consult with major shareholders ahead of any significant future 
changes to remuneration policy. Major shareholders and shareholder 
representative bodies were consulted on the changes summarised in  
the ‘Chairman’s annual statement on remuneration’.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41 Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting
Vesting schedule: EPS performance condition
Average EPS growth above RPI (% p.a.)
2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 11% 10% 12%
No vesting at or below 4% p.a.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
100% vesting at or above 10% p.a.
Annual bonus
For the year to 31 December 2014, the maximum bonus opportunity 
for executive directors will remain unchanged at 100 per cent of basic 
salary. The following describes how the scheme is applied to the 
executive directors. 
Any bonus will be payable dependent on the achievement of EPS  
(75 per cent) and AWC targets (25 per cent). For the EPS condition,  
the targets are set at threshold, plan and stretch level, with threshold  
being previous year actual and the plan and stretch targets set at a level 
considered to be sufficiently challenging above the prior year out-turn. 
Bonus accrual (as a percentage of basic salary) is linear between 
threshold and stretch.
The AWC condition for 2014 has a single target figure based on prior  
year performance which if met results in 100 per cent of the bonus  
subject to that condition vesting, except that the AWC condition  
would only be operative if the EPS target at plan level has been met. 
Bonus payments are based on salaries at the time of payment and will 
be determined by reference to performance against the full year targets. 
The Committee considers that the targets themselves are commercially 
sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a retrospective 
basis. Full details of the targets and actual out-turn will be disclosed in 
next year’s Directors’ remuneration report.
All employee share plans
Executive directors will be entitled to participate in any all employee share 
plans on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
LTIP
For the year to 31 December 2014, the CEO’s award will be 150 per cent 
of basic salary. The Finance Director’s award will be 100 per cent of 
salary plus 50 per cent of the CEO’s 2010 salary uplifted for any annual 
salary increases that he has received since then (which in total for his 
2014 awards will be approximately 174 per cent of his salary). 
The performance targets that are intended to apply to the awards to be 
granted in the current year are the same as for 2013 as set out below.
For the EPS condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear 
scale from 0 per cent to 100 per cent for average annual EPS growth of 
RPI + 4 per cent to RPI + 10 per cent, respectively. For the TSR condition, 
the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear scale from 3.85 per cent 
to 100 per cent for median to upper quartile performance, respectively. 
The TSR condition will be measured against the companies comprising 
the FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts).
Annual report on remuneration
This Annual report on remuneration shows how the Company’s policies 
and practices on directors’ remuneration will be applied in 2014 and 
how they were applied in relation to payments in respect of the financial 
year ended 2013. This report and the Chairman’s annual statement on 
remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
  Implementation of remuneration policy for 2014  
This first section of the Annual report on remuneration describes how the 
Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy for the financial 
year ending 31 December 2014.
Basic salaries
The Committee considered carefully salary increases for 2014 and it  
was decided to increase David Dutro’s salary to $850,000. The increase 
reflects the significant increase in size and complexity of the business,  
the strong performance of our Chief Executive and his criticality to the 
success of the Company. Reflecting the global workplace from which we 
recruit our top talent, particularly the US influence, the new salary brings 
David Dutro closer to market levels. The Committee also decided to award 
Brian Taylorson with a salary increase of 3 per cent which is in line with  
the levels of increases across the Group as a whole. 
Salary as at
1 January 2014
Salary as at
1 January 2013 Increase
David Dutro $850,000 $767,112 10.8%
Brian Taylorson £328,364 £318,800 3.0%
Pension and benefits
For the year to 31 December 2014, David Dutro will continue to participate 
in the pension arrangements and receive the same benefits as for 2013 as 
set out in the ‘Remuneration policy report’.
Brian Taylorson will receive a salary supplement of 74 per cent of his basic 
salary in lieu of any other pension benefits. His other benefits for 2014 will 
be the same as that for 2013 as set out in the ‘Remuneration policy report’. 
Background to changes to Brian Taylorson’s pension provision
During 2013 the Committee agreed to changes in Brian Taylorson’s 
pension arrangements. In making the changes, the Committee 
considered the commitment that was made to him when he became 
Finance Director in 2002 and sought to maintain a benefit that is broadly 
comparable, whilst fixing the liability of the Company. From 2014 onwards 
his provision was replaced with a single cash salary supplement of  
74 per cent of his basic salary which is equivalent to the value of the 
previous arrangements. 
The new arrangement will run for less than two years, in line with his 
previous arrangements, until the end of November 2015 when he 
reaches his 60th birthday. Shareholders are asked to support this change 
because the new arrangement is more transparent, clearer and simpler 
to understand and removes any element of risk or uncertainty as to how 
the previous salary supplements were to be calculated. 
Relevant to the above is that the Committee had agreed to an interim 
adjustment to Brian Taylorson’s pension provision during 2013. From  
1 September 2013 he voluntarily opted out of future accrual under the 
UK defined benefit pension scheme and instead received a monthly 
salary supplement equivalent to the pro-rated annual IAS 19 cost to the 
Company of funding his accrued pension (reduced for employer NIC) 
had he remained in the pension scheme. This change was cost neutral 
to the Company. The change to a single salary supplement for 2014 
replaces both this interim adjustment and the previous salary supplement 
for earnings above the former HMRC cap that was in place prior  
to 2002. These amounts are set out and explained clearly in the  
‘Directors’ retirement benefits’ table that follows. 
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 42
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Vesting schedule: TSR performance condition
Elementis’ position relative to the FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
Median Upper quartile
Percentage of award subject to TSR performance vesting
3.85% vesting at Median
100% vesting at Upper quartile or better
No vesting below Median
Non-executive directors’ remuneration
Following a 3 yearly review of fees, increases were awarded from 2014  
to bring these to a level commensurate with the size of the Company, the 
responsibilities and time commitment of the roles involved and in line with 
market practice.
For the year to 31 December 2014, the fees payable to the Chairman  
and non-executive directors will be as follows:
2014
£
2013
£
Chairman 175,000 137,150
Non-executive director 46,000 40,000
Additional fees:
Senior Independent Director 8,000 5,000
Chairman of Audit or Remuneration Committee 8,000 5,000
  Remuneration payable to directors for 2013 
Although the Company reports its results in US dollars the remainder of this report on remuneration is presented in pounds sterling because the 
majority of the directors are UK based and paid in pounds sterling.
A breakdown of the directors’ emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2013 is set out in the table below:
Year Fixed Sub-total Performance related Sub-total Total
£'000 Salary/fees Benefits Pension Bonus LTIP
Executive directors
David Dutro
1
2013 492 23 146 661 305 1,142 1,447 2,108
2012 468 22 148 638 388 2,534 2,922 3,560
Brian Taylorson
2
2013 319 19 251 589 184 870 1,054 1,643
2012 310 18 248 576 257 1,969 2,226 2,802
Non-executive directors
Ian Brindle
3
 (Chairman) 2013 83 – – 83 – – – 83
2012 45 – – 45 – – – 45
Andrew Christie
4
2013 41 – – 41 – – – 41
2012 40 – – 40 – – – 40
Anne Hyland
5
2013 25 – – 25 – – – 25
2012 – – – – – – – –
Kevin Matthews
4
2013 44 – – 44 – – – 44
2012 45 – – 45 – – – 45
Past directors
Robert Beeston
6
2013 80 – – 80 – – – 80
2012 137 – – 137 – – – 137
Chris Girling
7
2013 26 – – 26 – – – 26
2012 45 – – 45 – – – 45
Total 2013 1,110 42 397 1,549 489 2,012 2,501 4,050
Total 2012 1,090 40 396 1,526 645 4,503 5,148 6,674
Notes
1
  David Dutro as Group Chief Executive, who is based in the US and receives his salary in US dollars, received a salary of $767 , 1 12 (2012: $7 44,769). His pension comprises 
20 per cent of his salary and employer contributions to defined contribution pension schemes.
2
  Brian Taylorson’s pension comprises salary supplements paid as compensation for the limitation of pension rights to the former HM Revenue and Customs’ earnings cap and a 
pro-rated amount in lieu of future accrual under the UK defined benefit scheme (‘DB scheme’), as well as the pro-rated amount of accrued pension in the year valued using the 
HMRC method (accrued benefit net of inflation times a factor of 20 less member’s contributions).
3
  Ian Brindle, who was appointed Chairman on 1 August 2013, received seven months of his non-executive director fee (£40,000 p.a.) and Senior Independent Director fee (£5,000 
p.a.) and five months of the Chairman’s fee (£137 , 150 p.a.). 
4
  Andrew Christie replaced Kevin Matthews as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2013 and their fees reflect their non-executive director fee and the additional 
Committee Chairman fee on a pro-rated basis. 
5
  Anne Hyland joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013. Her fees reflect her non-executive director fee and  
additional fee as Chairman of the Audit Committee on a pro-rated basis.
6
 Robert Beeston, who retired from the Board on 31 July 2013, received seven months of the Chairman’s fee (£137 , 150 p.a.).
7
  Chris Girling retired from the Board on 31 July 2013 and his fee reflects his non-executive director fee and additional fee as Chairman of the Audit Committee on a pro-rated basis.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43 Determination of annual bonus outcome for performance in 2013
This section shows the performance targets set in respect of the 2013 annual bonus scheme, the level of performance achieved and the resultant 
payments to directors. In 2013, as in prior years, the bonus targets were tested against the half year and full year results. The H1 bonus payment 
would ordinarily be paid in August and the full year bonus payment, which takes into consideration any H1 bonus already paid, will be paid in 
March 2014. The maximum full year bonus opportunity is 100 per cent of basic salary and the maximum H1 bonus is restricted to 35 per cent of  
the full year amount. As explained earlier, from 2014, the bonus will be determined on the basis of the full year results only.  
FY 2013 bonus
plan targets
Bonus received as % of 
basic salary
Full year bonus
Relative 
weighting of 
performance 
conditions Threshold Plan Stretch
Actual 
result
Chief
 Executive
Finance
 Director
EPS (cents) 75% 23.3 23.6 26.1 25.4* 55.91% 55.91%
AWC (%) 25% 20.00 19.50 19.00 20.40 nil% nil%
Total full year payment 100% – – – – 55.91% 55.91%
H1 2013 bonus
plan targets
Bonus received as % of 
basic salary
H1 bonus
Relative 
weighting of 
performance 
conditions Threshold Plan Stretch
Actual 
result
Chief
 Executive
Finance
 Director
EPS (cents) 75% 12.2 12.2 13.7 12.5* nil% nil%
AWC (%) 25% 19.8 19.3 18.8 20.20 nil% nil%
Total H1 payment 100% – – – – nil% nil%
* The 2013 threshold, plan and stretch targets for H1 and the full year disclosed are as originally set and have not been restated for the impact of revised IAS 19. However, 
in order that the performance measurement can be made on a consistent basis, following the adoption of revised IAS 19, the actual result for 2013 has been adjusted 
from 23.0 cents to 25.4 cents. No payment was made for H1 performance and the result shown has also been restated from the H1 reported number of 11.3 cents. 
See page 13 in the Finance report under ‘Other expenses’ and page 29 in the Audit Committee report under ‘Significant accounting issues’. 
Bonus payments under both performance conditions increase on a linear basis with 0 per cent payable for threshold performance and 100 per cent 
for stretch performance. No discretion other than to adjust for revised IAS 19 (which was agreed at the time the targets were set last year) was exercised 
in respect of the above payments and there are no deferral requirements under the bonus scheme rules.
Annual report on remuneration (continued)
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 44
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Directors’ share based awards
Determination of 2011 LTIP awards
The awards made in 2011, shown in the table on page 46 headed ‘Directors’ share and scheme interests’, have a vesting date of 4 April 2014. 
The performance conditions (EPS and TSR, split 50:50) relate to performance over the three financial years ended 31 December 2013. Under 
the EPS condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if EPS grew during the three financial years ended 2013 by 
RPI + 10 per cent p.a. or more. Under the TSR condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if the Company’s TSR 
performance (against the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts) in the three financial years ended 31 December 2013 was at or above 
upper quartile. Over the performance period, the Company’s EPS grew by 67 per cent and its TSR performance was 131 per cent which placed it 
in the top 15 per cent of companies in the FTSE All Share Index. Accordingly, all of the 2011 awards have achieved the maximum performance 
threshold and, subject to continued employment, will vest in full on 4 April 2014. For the purpose of the calculation of the LTIP component of the 
total remuneration figure in the table on page 43, the awards have been valued using the average mid-market closing share price for the three months 
period from 1 October 2013 to 31 December 2013. 
LTIP awards granted in the year
LTIP awards made in 2013 are set out in the table below and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions (split 50:50) over the three years  
to 31 December 2015. The vesting schedule and the performance conditions are the same as for the awards to be made in 2014 as shown on  
pages 42 and 43.
Type  
of share
award Grant date
Number  
of awards
Face value of
award at grant
£’000s
1
Percentage that would vest  
at threshold performance
The end date of
the performance 
period
A summary of
performance targets 
and measures
David Dutro
Nil cost 
option 02.04.13 289,750 755
0% of the award subject to the EPS 
condition and 3.85% of the award 
subject to the TSR condition 31.12.15 As above 
Brian Taylorson
Nil cost 
option 02.04.13 214,398 559
0% of the award subject to the EPS 
condition and 3.85% of the award 
subject to the TSR condition 31.12.15 As above
1
  For David Dutro this equates to 150 per cent of basic salary and for Brian Taylorson this equates to 100 per cent of his basic salary plus 50 per cent of the CEO’s 2010 
basic salary (re-valued for annual increases to his own salary). For further details, see page 36 of the Remuneration policy report. The share price used to determine the 
number of awards granted was 260.70p being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Details of awards in savings-based share schemes are shown in the table overleaf.
Sourcing shares for our share plans
Employee share plans comply with ABI guidelines on dilution which provide that overall issuance of shares under all plans should not exceed an amount 
equivalent to 10 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital over any ten year period, with a further limitation of 5 per cent in any ten year period on 
discretionary plans. Based on the number of awards that remain outstanding as at the year end, the Company’s headroom for all plans is 5.2 per cent 
and for discretionary plans 4.2 per cent of issued share capital. 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 45 Directors’ share and scheme interests
The interests of the persons who were directors during the year in the issued shares of the Company were:
Interest
type Grant date
Option
price
(p)
Scheme interests
Vested but
unexercised
share
options 01.01.13
Granted
during
2013
Exercised
during
2013
Lapsed
during
2013 31.12.13
Executive directors
David Dutro A 26.08.2011 119.34 4,929 – 4,929
1
– – Nil
A 30.08.2012 184.62 13,144 – – – 13,144 Nil
A 23.08.2013 227.55 – 2,722 – – 2,722 Nil
B 22.04.2010 – 988,149 – 988,149
1
– – Nil
B 04.04.2011 – 451,350 – – – 451,350 Nil
B 26.06.2012 – 359,846 – – – 359,846 Nil
B 02.04.2013 – – 289,750 – – 289,750 Nil
Total scheme interests 1,817,418 292,472 993,078 – 1,116,812 Nil
Brian Taylorson A 01.10.2009 35.52 43,778 – – – 43,778 Nil
B 22.04.2010 – 768,103 – 768,103
2
– – Nil
B 04.04.2011 – 343,951 – – – 343,951 Nil
B 26.06.2012 – 273,693 – – – 273,693 Nil
B 02.04.2013 – – 214,398 – – 214,398 Nil
Total scheme interests 1,429,525 214,398 768,103 – 875,820 Nil
Share interests
Guideline
holding
4
met as at
31.12.13
Interest
type 01.01.13 31.12.13
Executive directors
David Dutro C – – 294,912 – – – 299,841 Yes
Brian Taylorson C – – 331,096 – – – 400,000 Yes
Non-executive directors
Ian Brindle C – – 31,172 – – – 31,172 N/A
Andrew Christie C – – 10,000 – – – 10,000 N/A
Anne Hyland C – – Nil – – – 10,000 N/A
Kevin Matthews C – – 11,633 – – – 11,633 N/A
Past directors
Robert Beeston
3
C – – 50,000 – – – 50,000 N/A
Chris Girling
3
C – – 5,000 – – – 5,000 N/A
A. Savings based share options schemes are not subject to performance conditions. David Dutro’s options are held under the US sharesave scheme and would ordinarily 
vest on the second anniversary of the grant date and expire three months thereafter. During 2013 he was granted 2,722 savings based options. The option price shown is 
based on the mid-market closing share price on the date of grant, giving a face value of £6.2k. The options granted to Brian Taylorson in 2009 are five year options held 
under the UK SAYE scheme and would ordinarily vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and expire six months thereafter. Further details on these schemes are 
show in Note 24 to the ‘Consolidated financial statements’ on page 85.
B. LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions. The same EPS growth and relative TSR performance conditions apply in respect of the awards made in 2011, 2012 and 
2013, as described in the Remuneration policy report. These options ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and would expire on the tenth anniversary.
C. Interest in shares, including of connected persons.
1
  David Dutro retained 4,929 shares (2012: 30,688) following the exercise of savings based share options in 2013. The price on the date of exercise was 252.10 pence  
per share with a notional gain of c. £6.5k. In addition, he exercised and sold 988,149 shares granted under the LTIP in 2010 which vested in full at a price of 252.23 pence  
per share, with a pre-tax gain of c. £2.5m.
2
  Brian Taylorson retained 68,904 shares (2012: nil) following the exercise and partial sale of 768,103 shares also granted under the LTIP in 2010 which vested in full.  
The price on the date of exercise was 252.23 pence per share with a pre-tax gain on the shares sold of c. £1.76m and a notional gain on the shares retained of c. £0.17m.
3
 Shares shown are held from the beginning of the year up until the date of their retirement on 31 July 2013.
4
 Guideline holding is one times salary.
The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2013 was 268.9 pence (2012: 232.5 pence) and the range during 2013 was 210.2 pence to  
275.0 pence (2012: 135.1 pence to 240.3 pence). 
As at 25 February 2014, the Trustee of the Company’s Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’) held nil shares (2012: nil). As executive directors, 
David Dutro and Brian Taylorson, as potential beneficiaries under the ESOT, are deemed to have an interest in any shares that become held in the ESOT.
Annual report on remuneration (continued)
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 46
Directors’ remuneration report
continued TSR performance (rebased to 100)
Elementis plc
Key
FTSE 250 Index
(£)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
As at 25 February 2014, no person who was then a director had any interest in any derivative or other financial instrument relating to the Company’s shares 
and, so far as the Company is aware, none of their connected persons had such an interest. Between 31 December 2013 and 25 February 2014 there was 
no change in the relevant interests of any such directors nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons.
Other than their service contracts, letters of appointment and letters of indemnity with the Company, none of the directors had an interest in any 
contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year. 
Retirement benefits
The table below shows the breakdown of the retirement benefits of the executive directors, comprising employer contributions to defined contribution 
plans, benefits under defined benefit schemes and salary supplements paid in cash. 
The amount shown for David Dutro under defined contribution plans reflects total employer contributions in 2013. The amounts paid under these plans 
were £47 ,460 (2012: £53,848) equivalent to 6.0 per cent (2012: 6.3 per cent) of his total pensionable remuneration in 2013. The payment of a salary 
supplement is explained in the ‘Remuneration policy report’ on page 37 . In addition, as a US salaried executive director, David Dutro participated in the 
Elementis Career Reward Retirement Plan (‘ECRRP’) for US employees. On 1 May 2006, the plan was frozen (closed to future accruals). The ECRRP  
is a cash balance retirement plan which falls under the category of defined benefit pension plans in the US. As the plan is closed to future accruals, 
participants’ account balances are no longer credited with contributions, however, interest is credited each year at the US Treasury 30 year bond 
rate. David Dutro’s accrued benefits under this plan are also shown in the table. David Dutro’s normal retirement date under all his pension  
arrangements is 65. The normal pensionable retirement age under the DB scheme for Brian Taylorson is 60.
Directors’  retirement benefits 
Defined 
contribution plans Salary supplements Defined benefit schemes
Contractual
HMRC notional 
earnings cap
Accrued
benefits
31.12.13
£’000
Accrued
benefits
31.12.12
£’000
Increase in
accrued
benefits (net
of inflation)
2013
£’000
Pension
related
benefits to
be included
in total
remuneration
2013
£’000
Pension
benefit if
director 
retires early
2013
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013
 £’000
2012
 £’000
2013
 £’000
2012
 £’000
David Dutro 47 54 99 94 – – 9 9 – – 9
Brian Taylorson – – 29
1
– 152
2
160 55 50 4 70
3
43
1
  This salary supplement is in lieu of future accrual under the UK DB scheme from 1 September 2013 and is equivalent to the IAS 19 cost (adjusted for employers’ NIC) to  
the Company of funding his accrued pension in the year had he not opted-out of future accrual and the amount shown is pro-rated for the four month period (£29,280).
2
 This amount relates to the limitation of pension rights due to the former HMRC’s notional earnings cap equating to the pre-tax value of 44 per cent of basic salary. 
3
  The accrued benefit under the DB scheme in the year is valued using the HMRC method (accrued benefit net of inflation times 20, less member contributions) to 
give £69,530 and added to the salary supplements (£152,276 and £29,280) to arrive at the total pension benefit (£251,086) for Brian Taylorson in the ‘Directors’ 
remuneration table’ on page 43. The same methodology has been used to provide the comparative pension figure for 2012 in that table.
Total shareholder return performance and change in CEO’s pay
The graph below illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return for the five years ended 31 December 2013, relative to the FTSE 250 Index, along with a table 
illustrating the change in CEO pay over the same period. The table also details the varying award vesting rates year on year for the annual bonus scheme and L TIP .
As the Company’s shares are denominated and listed in pence, the graph below looks at the total return to the end of 2013 of £100 invested in Elementis on  
31 December 2008 compared with that of the total return of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index. This index was selected for the purpose of providing a relative 
comparison of performance because the Company is a member of it.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
CEO pay (total  
remuneration – £'000) 576
1
1,031 2,964 3,560 2,108
Annual bonus award against 
maximum opportunity 0% 100% 100% 81.25% 55.91%
LTIP vesting against  
maximum opportunity 88%
1
0%
2
100% 100% 100%
1
  Prior to being appointed CEO in 2007 David Dutro as COO was awarded ESOS 
options in 2006 which vested in part in 2009 (as shown). However, these options 
were underwater on the vesting date so have been valued at nil in line with FRC 
Lab guidelines.
2
  This also relates to ESOS options that were awarded to David Dutro in 2007 
which all lapsed due to performance conditions not being met.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47 Other information about the Committee’s membership 
and operation 
Committee composition
The Chairman and members of the Committee are shown on page 24, 
together with their biographical information. Eight meetings were held 
during 2013 and the attendance records of Committee members are 
shown on page 28. All meetings were also attended by the Chairman of 
the Company and the Senior Independent Director, to ensure that all 
non-executive Board members were kept fully informed on the operation 
and work of the Committee. Both executive directors also attend meetings 
by invitation, as appropriate, although they are not present when their own 
remuneration arrangements are discussed or, if they are, they  
do not participate in the decision making process. 
Terms of reference
A full description of the Committee’s terms of reference is available on the 
Company’s website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities:
• Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and  
executive directors and keeping these under review.
• Making awards under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP ,  
including setting performance targets.
• Monitoring and making recommendations on the structure and  
level of remuneration for senior executives, ensuring that these are 
appropriately linked to the Group’s strategy and aligned with the 
Board’s risk profile.
Evaluation, training and development
On an annual basis the Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed as part of  
the evaluation of the Board. Following the evaluation last year, there were  
no major issues to report.
During 2013 Committee members attended various external seminars on 
the latest developments on executive remuneration and all Board members 
received briefings from the Company Secretary and the Committee’s 
remuneration advisers throughout the year, to keep them updated on 
topical matters and developments relating to executive remuneration.  
Remuneration advisers
The Committee’s external advisers are New Bridge Street (‘NBS’) who 
were appointed after a tender in 2008. This was reviewed again last year 
and as a result they were retained as advisers. The Committee is satisfied 
that there is no over-reliance on NBS, who have no connection with the 
Company other than as remuneration advisers. Total fees paid to NBS in 
2013 amounted to c.£40,000 for advisory services mainly in connection with 
the review of executive remuneration, non-executive directors’ fees and the 
Director’s remuneration report for compliance with the new regulations.
Auditable sections of the Directors’ remuneration report 
The sections of the ‘Annual report on remuneration’ that are required to 
be audited by law are as follows: ‘Remuneration payable to directors for 
2013’ and ‘Retirement benefits’; and tables headed ‘LTIP awards granted 
in the year’, ‘Directors’ share and scheme interests’ and ‘Directors’ 
retirement benefits’.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the Group 
together with the total dividends paid in respect of 2013 and the preceding 
financial year.
Remuneration against distributions
2013
£million
2012
£million change
Remuneration paid to all employees 
(see Note 8 to the ‘Consolidated 
financial statements’)
1
67.1 62.1 8%
Total dividends paid in the year 38.0
2
20.5 85%
1
  The amounts for 2013 and 2012 have been converted from dollar into  
pounds sterling using the average $:£ exchange rate for those years.
2
 2013 includes a special dividend payment of $22 million (£14.4 million). 
Percentage change in CEO’s pay
The following table shows the change from 2012 to 2013 of the CEO’s pay 
with regard to the three elements set out below and the corresponding 
change in these elements across all employees within the Group.
% Change from 2012 to 2013
Salaries Benefits Bonus*
CEO pay (total remuneration) 3 5 (21)
All employees 8 8 8
* change in bonus relates to payments in respect of the relevant financial years
Statement of shareholder voting
The resolution to approve the 2012 Directors’ remuneration report was 
passed on a show of hands at the Company’s last AGM held on 25 April 
2013. Set out in the table below is the votes cast by proxy in respect of  
that resolution.
Approval of Directors’ remuneration report for 2012
Votes for % For Votes against % Against Votes withheld
346,299,708 99.73% 938,723 0.27% 2,357,277
Annual report on remuneration (continued)
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 48 Directors’ report
Report and financial statements
The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013.
This Directors’ report includes the Corporate governance reports from 
page 26 to 48.
Strategic report, future development, GHG emissions and R&D
The ‘Strategic report’ which the Company is required under law to prepare 
can be found on pages 2 to 23. That report also includes information 
required in this Directors’ report about: (a) future developments in the 
business of the Group and (b) greenhouse gas emissions. 
The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, R&D activities for new 
products and to improve existing products.
Takeover directive disclosures
The management report, for the purposes of the UK Listing Authority’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, comprises the following sections: 
the ‘Strategic report’, this Directors’ report, the ‘Directors’ responsibility 
statement’ and the biographical information on the directors on page 24. 
Dividend
Details about the final dividend for the year, as well as a special 
dividend, are disclosed in the Chairman’s statement on page 2.
Directors and their share interests
The directors of the Company who served during 2013 were Robert 
Beeston, Ian Brindle, Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Chris Girling, Anne 
Hyland, Kevin Matthews and Brian Taylorson. Anne Hyland joined the 
Board on 1 June 2013 and Robert Beeston and Chris Girling retired from 
the Board on 31 July 2013. Otherwise, all of the directors served on the 
Board throughout the financial year. Biographical information about each  
director as at the year end is shown on page 24.
The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set  
out in the ‘Directors' remuneration report’.
Employment policies and equal opportunities
The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity employer that relies on 
HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to ensure compliance 
with all applicable laws governing employment practices and to advise 
on all HR policies and practices, including recruitment and selection, 
training and development, and promotion and retirement.
Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open atmosphere 
of trust, honesty and respect. Harassment or discrimination of any kind 
based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, 
mental or physical disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any 
other similarly protected status is not tolerated. This principle applies to  
all aspects of employment from recruitment and promotion through to 
termination and all other terms and conditions of employment.
It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria 
and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced 
labour. Employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with 
the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business. 
Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in collective 
bargaining arrangements. 
It is also Group policy, for employees who have a disability, to provide 
continuing employment under normal terms and conditions, where 
practicable, and to provide training, career development and promotion, 
as appropriate.
Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its employees 
worldwide, as well as those of our customers and suppliers, and further 
details are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
Employee communications and involvement
The Group has processes in place for communicating with all its 
employees. Employee communications include information about  
the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, 
employment or workplace and to encourage them to get involved  
in social or community events.
As is common practice, the Company operates savings-based share 
option schemes in the US and UK to encourage employees to become 
shareholders and share in the success of the Group. Further details of 
these schemes are set out on page 85.
Going concern 
In assessing the Group as a going concern, the directors have given 
consideration to the factors likely to affect its future performance and 
development, the Group’s financial position and the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group, including the Group’s exposure to credit, 
liquidity and market risk and the mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
The Group had a net cash position at the year end of $54.1 million and also 
had access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of $100 million, which 
expires in October 2018. There is a mechanism in the agreement for the 
facility to be increased by a further $100 million subject to other terms. 
Under the borrowing facility, the Group has to perform covenant tests for 
net debt:EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net worth. No breaches in the 
required covenant tests were reported during the year. The Group uses 
various short and medium term forecasts to monitor anticipated future 
compliance and these include stress testing assumptions to identify the 
headroom on the covenant tests. 
After evaluating the covenant compliance modelling and the trading of the 
businesses, the directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company 
have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future 
as going concerns. For this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 
Share capital
The Company’s share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set out 
in Note 7 to the ‘Parent company financial statements’ on page 92.  
All of the Company’s issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank 
equally in all respects. The rights attached to them, in addition to those 
conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Company’s articles 
of association (the ‘Articles’). Other than those specific provisions set out 
in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them. From time 
to time the Elementis Employee share ownership trust (‘Trust’) holds 
shares in the Company for the purposes of various share incentive plans 
and the rights attaching to them are exercised by independent trustees, 
who may take into account any recommendation by the Company. As at 
31 December 2013 the Trust held no shares in the Company (2012: nil). 
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all shares that may become 
held by the Trust. 
Directors, Articles and purchase of shares
The directors’ powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by 
the Company’s Articles. Rules about the appointment and replacement 
of directors are also set out in the Articles. 
The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchase  
its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming 
AGM within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting. 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 49 Political donations 
The Group made no political donations during the year (2012: nil).
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors and officers of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. Since 2008, the directors of the Company have 
been in receipt of an indemnity from the Company in respect of any liability or 
loss that may arise out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, 
duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company, or of any subsidiary, 
to the extent permitted under the Companies Act 2006. Copies of these 
indemnities, which continue to remain in place, are available for inspection  
at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and will  
be available for inspection at the AGM.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Since 2008, Brian Taylorson, who is Finance Director and a trustee of  
the DB scheme, has been the only director who is in receipt of a conflict 
authorisation from the Company. The conflict authorisation enables him to 
continue to act as a trustee notwithstanding that this role could give rise to 
a situation in which there is a conflict of interest. The conflict authorisation 
is subject to annual review by the Board and was renewed during 2013 
for another year. The terms of the conflict authorisation have remained 
unchanged since 2008 and details can be found in the 2012 Annual Report.
Other information
Information about financial risk management and exposure to financial 
market risks are set out in Note 21 to the ‘Consolidated financial 
statements’ on page 74.
Annual General Meeting
The seventeenth AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday  
24 April 2014. The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate  
document sent to shareholders.
By order of the Board
Wai Wong
Company Secretary
25 February 2014 
Significant agreements – change of control
There are few significant agreements which the Company is party to that take 
effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company. 
The Company is a guarantor under the Group’s $100 million revolving credit 
facility and, in the event of a change of control, any lender among the facility 
syndicate, of which there are four with commitments ranging from $20 million 
to $30 million, may withdraw from the facility and that lender’s participation in 
any loans drawn down are required to be repaid.
Under David Dutro’s service contract with the Company, compensation 
is payable to him equivalent to one year’s basic salary if he terminates his 
contract upon a change of control provided that the Company has not 
first obtained a written agreement to be bound by his service contract 
from any successor in a change of control. There is no specific change of 
control provision in Brian Taylorson’s service contract with the Company 
but the provisions on early termination set out on page 41 of the Directors’ 
remuneration report apply to him.
The rules of the Company’s various share incentive schemes set out the 
consequences of a change of control of the Company on the rights of 
the participants under those schemes. Under the rules of the respective 
schemes, participants would generally be able to exercise their options 
on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions 
have been satisfied and, where relevant, options are not exchanged for 
new options granted by an acquiring company.
Substantial shareholders
As at 25 February 2014 the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following 
interests in its issued ordinary capital:
Ordinary
shares
Percentage 
of issued 
ordinary 
share capital
AXA Investment Managers SA 28,739,014 6.26
BlackRock, Inc. 23,211,191 5.06
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 22,734,503 4.95
Schroders plc 22,517,387 4.91
Norges Bank 18,117,062 3.95
Auditor
A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 24 April 2014.  
Details about this proposal are set out in the Notice of Meeting 
accompanying the Annual Report.
Each director in office at the date of this Directors’ report confirms 
that (a) so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and (b) he/she has 
taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director to 
make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 50
Directors’ report
continued The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the ‘Consolidated financial statements’ in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the ‘Parent company financial statements’ in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the consolidated and 
parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
• For the ‘Consolidated financial statements’, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
• For the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the ‘Parent company financial statements’.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 
of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and 
those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors, all of whom are shown on page 24, confirm that to the  
best of their knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
• The management report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Brian Taylorson
Finance Director
25 February 2014
 
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51
Directors’ responsibility statement Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Elementis plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 54 to 93. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material mis-statement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements,  
the risks of material mis-statement that had the greatest effect on  
our audit were as follows:
Provisions ($38.1 million)
Refer to page 29 (Audit Committee report), page 58  
(accounting policy) and page 71 (financial disclosures).
• The risk – As a chemicals company, the possibility of legal 
proceedings and environmental issues are inherent within the 
business. Elementis has numerous operating and legacy sites 
worldwide with provisions recognised for the future cost of the 
environmental issues. The amounts involved are potentially significant 
and future cash flows are uncertain whilst the application of 
accounting standards to determine the amount of liability to recognise 
or release, if any, for individual issues is inherently subjective. 
• Our response – Our audit procedures included, among others, 
correspondence with the Group’s external consultants on the current 
situation and risks regarding all identified significant environmental 
issues. We inspected the consultants’ reports documenting the 
forecast future cash flows with regard to these issues. We challenged 
the Company’s discount rate against external market data and 
assessed the unwinding of the provision recognised in finance costs 
through analytical procedures. A sample, selected using statistical 
sampling methodology, of the cash flows incurred in the year relating 
to the provisions were agreed to the underlying documentation. 
We considered the consistency of forecast cash flows with previous 
estimates by comparing the most recent estimates with the prior year 
external report. In addition, we inspected the group litigation and 
compliance reports and held discussions with the Group’s internal 
counsel for all significant issues. We also assessed whether the 
Group’s disclosures detailing significant provisions and contingent 
liabilities adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the Group.
Post retirement benefits ($99.3 million)
Refer to page 29 (Audit Committee report), page 58  
(accounting policy) and pages 80 to 85 (financial disclosures).
• The risk – Significant estimates are made in valuing the Group’s  
post retirement defined benefit schemes and small changes in 
assumptions and estimates used to value the Group’s net pension 
deficit would have a significant effect on the results and financial 
position of the Group. 
• Our response – In this area our audit procedures included, among 
others, testing a sample of the UK and US schemes’ membership 
data to the source documentation. With the support of our own 
actuarial specialists, we then challenged the key assumptions applied 
to those data to determine the Group’s net deficit, being the discount 
rate, inflation rate and mortality/life expectancy. This included a 
comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data. 
Cash flows and funding arrangements have been agreed to the 
underlying documentation, whilst asset values have been agreed  
to external confirmations. We also considered the adequacy of  
the Group’s disclosures in respect of IAS 19.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 
of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set  
at $6.5 million. This has been determined with reference to a benchmark 
of Group profit before taxation of $136.0 million before exceptionals (of 
which it represents 4.8%) which we consider to be one of the principal 
considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial 
performance of the Group.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and 
uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in 
excess of $0.325 million, in addition to other audit mis-statements below 
that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component 
auditors at the key reporting components in the following countries:  
US, the Netherlands, Taiwan and China, and by the group audit team  
in the following countries: UK. In addition, specified audit procedures  
were performed by component auditors in Germany at the shared  
service centre.
These group procedures covered 98% of total group revenue; 
95% of group profit before taxation
1
; and 94% of total group assets. 
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key  
reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality  
levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team. These materiality  
levels were set individually for each component and ranged from  
$1.2 million to $4.0 million. 
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations. 
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be 
covered by these audits (which included the relevant risks of material 
mis-statement detailed above) and set out the information required to be 
reported back to the group audit team. Members of the group audit team 
visited the following locations: US and Taiwan. Telephone meetings were 
also held with the auditors at this location and the other locations that  
were not physically visited.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 52
Independent auditor’s report to 
the members of Elementis plc only 4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we 
are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based  
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency  
with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
mis-statement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that they 
consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as  
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the  
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law  
are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we  
require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 49, in relation to  
going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate governance report on page 26 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of  
the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement  
set out on page 51, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a  
true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely  
to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published  
on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which  
are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read  
to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work  
we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Lynton Richmond
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL 
25 February 2014 
1
  using an absolute measure due to some head office cost components 
recognising losses
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53 Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
54 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
 
  2013 2012 
 Note 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
 
$million 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
 
$million 
After 
exceptional 
items 
  
$million 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
restated* 
$million 
Exceptional 
items  
(note 5) 
  
$million 
After 
exceptional 
items 
restated* 
$million 
Revenue 2 776.8 – 776.8 757.0 – 757.0 
Cost of sales  (487.7) – (487.7) (465.6) – (465.6)
Gross profit  289.1 – 289.1 291.4 – 291.4 
Distribution costs  (83.6) – (83.6) (80.6) – (80.6)
Administrative expenses  (58.9) (1.7) (60.6) (66.9) – (66.9)
Operating profit 2 146.6 (1.7) 144.9 143.9 – 143.9 
Other expenses  (2.0) – (2.0) (2.5) (2.5)
Finance income 3 0.2 – 0.2 0.8 – 0.8 
Finance costs 4 (8.8) – (8.8) (8.8) – (8.8)
Profit before income tax  136.0 (1.7) 134.3 133.4 – 133.4 
Tax 6 (29.4) 1.8 (27.6) (33.1) – (33.1)
Profit for the year   106.6 0.1 106.7 100.3 – 100.3 
Attributable to:        
Equity holders of the parent  106.6 0.1 106.7 100.3 – 100.3 
Non-controlling interests  – – – – – – 
  106.6 0.1 106.7 100.3 – 100.3 
        
Earnings per share        
Basic (cents) 9   23.3   22.2 
Diluted (cents) 9   23.0   21.8 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated* 
 $million 
Profit for the year 106.7 100.3 
Other comprehensive income:   
 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:   
  Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 19.3 (60.3)
  Deferred tax associated with retirement benefit obligations (10.3) 4.1 
   
 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:   
  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1.2) 1.4 
  Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.3  (0.5)
  Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to income statement 0.5 0.8 
  Tax benefit associated with exercise of share options 4.4 – 
Other comprehensive income 13.0  (54.5)
Total comprehensive income for the year 119.7 45.8 
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent 119.7 45.8 
Non-controlling interests – – 
Total comprehensive income for the year 119.7 45.8 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   1 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Consolidated balance sheet 
at 31 December 2013 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 55 
 Note 
 2013  
31 December 
 
$million 
2012 
31 December 
restated* 
 $million 
Non-current assets    
Goodwill and other intangible assets 10 382.1 356.7 
Property, plant and equipment 11 202.6 186.8 
Deferred tax assets 16 8.6 12.4 
Total non-current assets  593.3 555.9 
    
Current assets    
Inventories 12 128.3 128.6 
Trade and other receivables 13 126.2 119.1 
Derivatives  0.4 – 
Cash and cash equivalents 20 64.5 63.1 
Total current assets  319.4 310.8 
Total assets  912.7 866.7 
    
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts and loans 19 (8.7) (5.6)
Trade and other payables 14 (111.1) (100.0)
Derivatives  (0.1) (0.4)
Current tax liabilities  (14.4) (9.0)
Provisions 15 (6.0) (6.6)
Total current liabilities  (140.3) (121.6)
    
Non-current liabilities    
Loans and borrowings 19 (1.7) (13.5)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (99.3) (137.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 16 (93.5) (78.9)
Provisions 15 (32.1) (33.9)
Government grants  (0.3) (0.6)
Total non-current liabilities  (226.9) (264.3)
Total liabilities  (367.2) (385.9)
Net assets  545.5 480.8 
    
Equity    
Share capital 17 44.1 43.7 
Share premium  16.7 14.7 
Other reserves 18 129.9 130.3 
Retained earnings  353.2 290.5 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  543.9 479.2 
Non-controlling interests  1.6 1.6 
Total equity  545.5 480.8 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard and for updated provisional fair value adjustment  
The financial statements on pages 54 to 88 were approved by the Board on 25 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
   
David Dutro     Brian Taylorson 
Group Chief Executive   Finance Director 
 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   2 12/03/2014   20:14 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
56 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
 
Share  
capital 
 
 $million 
Share  
premium 
 
$million 
Translation  
reserve 
 
 $million 
Hedging  
reserve 
 
$million 
Other  
reserves 
 
$million 
Retained  
earnings 
restated* 
$million 
Total 
restated* 
$million 
Non-
controlling 
interest 
 
$million 
Total 
equity 
restated* 
$million 
Balance at 1 January 2012 43.4 12.7 (29.0) (7.8) 162.6 266.7 448.6 1.6 450.2 
Comprehensive income           
Profit for the year – – – – – 100.3 100.3 – 100.3 
Other comprehensive income           
Exchange differences – – 1.4 – – – 1.4 – 1.4 
Fair value of cash flow hedges 
transferred to the income statement – – – 0.8 – – 0.8 – 0.8 
Effective portion of changes  
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – (0.5) – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Remeasurements of retirement  
benefit obligations – – – – – (60.3) (60.3) – (60.3)
Tax credit on actuarial loss  
on pension scheme – – – – – 4.1 4.1 – 4.1 
Transfer – – – – (0.8) 0.8 – – – 
Total other comprehensive income – – 1.4 0.3 (0.8) (55.4) (54.5) – (54.5)
Total comprehensive income – – 1.4 0.3 (0.8) 44.9 45.8 – 45.8 
Transactions with owners           
Issue of shares by the Company  
and the ESOT 0.3 2.0 – – – 0.5 2.8 – 2.8 
Share based payments – – – – 3.6 – 3.6 – 3.6 
Deferred tax on share based payments 
recognised within equity – – – – – 10.6 10.6 – 10.6 
Dividends paid – – – – – (32.2) (32.2) – (32.2)
Total transactions with owners 0.3 2.0 – – 3.6 (21.1) (15.2) – (15.2)
Balance at 31 December 2012 43.7 14.7 (27.6) (7.5) 165.4 290.5 479.2 1.6 480.8 
          
Balance at 1 January 2013 43.7 14.7 (27.6) (7.5) 165.4 290.5 479.2 1.6 480.8 
Comprehensive income          
Profit for the year – – – – – 106.7 106.7 – 106.7 
Other comprehensive income          
Exchange differences – – (1.2) – – – (1.2) – (1.2)
Fair value of cash flow hedges 
transferred to the income statement – – – 0.5 – – 0.5 – 0.5 
Effective portion of changes  
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – –  0.3 – – 0.3 – 0.3 
Remeasurements of retirement  
benefit obligations – – – – – 19.3 19.3 – 19.3 
Tax benefit associated with exercise  
of share options – – – – – 4.4 4.4 – 4.4 
Deferred tax adjustment on pension 
scheme deficit – – – – – (10.3) (10.3) – (10.3)
Transfer – – – – (3.2) 3.2 – – – 
Total other comprehensive income – – (1.2) 0.8 (3.2) 16.6 13.0 – 13.0 
Total comprehensive income – – (1.2) 0.8 (3.2) 123.3 119.7 – 119.7 
Transactions with owners          
Issue of shares by the Company 0.4 2.0 – – (0.2) – 2.2 – 2.2 
Share based payments – – – – 3.4 – 3.4 – 3.4 
Deferred tax on share based payments 
recognised within equity – – – – – (2.5) (2.5) – (2.5)
Dividends paid – – – – – (58.1) (58.1) – (58.1)
Total transactions with owners 0.4 2.0 – – 3.2 (60.6) (55.0) – (55.0)
Balance at 31 December 2013 44.1 16.7 (28.8) (6.7) 165.4 353.2 543.9 1.6 545.5 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard  
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   3 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57 
 Note 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated* 
 $million 
Operating activities:    
Profit for the year  106.7 100.3 
Adjustments for: 
Other expenses  
 
2.0 
 
2.5 
Finance income  (0.2)  (0.8)
Finance costs  8.8 8.8 
Tax charge  27.6 33.1 
Depreciation and amortisation  23.9 21.3 
Decrease in provisions  (1.5)  (1.9)
Pension payments net of current service cost  (26.8)  (27.9)
Share based payments  3.4 4.2 
Exceptional items  1.7 – 
Cash flow in respect of exceptional items excluding pensions  (3.9)  (3.7)
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital  141.7 135.9 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories  2.8  (6.1)
Increase in trade and other receivables  (4.3)  (16.2)
Increase in trade and other payables  8.0 9.4 
Cash generated by operations  148.2 123.0 
Income taxes paid  (12.3) (13.1)
Interest paid  (2.8)  (3.6)
Net cash flow from operating activities  133.1 106.3 
Investing activities:    
Interest received  0.5 1.1 
Disposal of property, plant and equipment  0.6 1.5 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (34.1)  (38.3)
Purchase of business  (32.8)  (24.0)
Acquisition of intangible assets  (1.5)  (0.7)
Net cash flow from investing activities  (67.3)  (60.4)
Financing activities:    
Issue of shares by the Company and the ESOT  2.2 2.8 
Dividends paid  (58.3)  (32.2)
Receipt of unclaimed dividends  0.2 0.3 
Decrease in borrowings   (8.7)  (3.3)
Net cash used in financing activities  (64.6)  (32.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  1.2 13.5 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  63.1 48.2 
Foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents  0.2 1.4 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 20 64.5 63.1 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard  
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   4 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013  
58 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
1 Accounting policies 
Elementis plc is a company incorporated in the UK. The Group financial 
statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the EU (‘adopted IFRS’). The Company has elected to prepare its 
parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. 
These are presented on pages 89 to 93. 
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and 
financial instruments held for trading or available for sale are stated at their 
fair value. Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The preparation of 
financial statements requires the application of estimates and judgements 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and 
costs and related disclosures at the balance sheet date. The accounting 
policies set out below have been consistently applied across Group 
companies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial 
statements. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis.The rationale for adopting this basis is discussed in the Directors’ 
report on page 49. 
Reporting currency As a consequence of the majority of the Group’s 
sales and earnings originating in US dollars or US dollar linked currencies, 
the Group has chosen the US dollar as its reporting currency. This aligns 
the Group’s external reporting with the profile of the Group, as well as 
with internal management reporting. 
Critical accounting policies Critical accounting policies are those that 
require significant judgements or estimates and potentially result in 
materially different results under different assumptions or conditions.  
It is considered that the Group’s critical accounting policies are limited  
to those described below. The development of the estimates and 
disclosures related to each of these matters has been discussed by the 
Audit Committee. 
(a) Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the 
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a 
past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions 
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a 
pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the 
liability. 
 A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has 
approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the 
restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. 
In accordance with the Group’s environmental policy and applicable 
legal requirements, a provision for site restoration in respect of 
contaminated land is recognised when the land is contaminated. 
Provisions for environmental issues are judgemental by their nature 
and more difficult to estimate when they relate to sites no longer 
directly controlled by the Group. 
(b) Pension and other post retirement benefits In respect of the 
Group’s defined benefit schemes, the Group’s net obligation in 
respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated by estimating 
the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for 
their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted 
to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is 
deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet 
date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating 
to the terms of the Group’s obligations. Pension and post retirement 
liabilities are calculated by qualified actuaries using the projected unit 
credit method. Following the introduction of the revised IAS19 
Employee Benefits standard, the net interest on the defined benefit 
liability now consists of the interest cost on the defined benefit 
obligation and the interest income on plan assets, both calculated by 
reference to the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit 
obligation at the start of the period. Previously the Group determined 
interest income on plan assets using an expected long term rate of 
return. 
 Any difference between the expected return on assets and that 
achieved is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
together with the difference from experience or assumption changes. 
The Group recognises all such remeasurements in the period in which 
they occur through the statement of comprehensive income. The 
Group also operates a small number of defined contribution schemes 
and the contributions payable during the year are recognised as 
incurred. Due to the size of the pension scheme assets and liabilities, 
relatively small changes in the assumptions can have a significant 
impact on the expense recorded in the income statement and on the 
pension liability recorded in the balance sheet. 
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the period.  
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by the Company. Control exists 
when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain benefits from its 
activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during a 
period are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date 
that control commences until the date that control ceases. 
The Group adopted IFRS 3 (revised), Business Combinations, for 
business combinations where the acquisition date was on or after  
1 January 2010. This measures goodwill at the acquisition date as the fair 
value of the consideration transferred, the recognised amount of any non-
controlling interests in the acquiree plus, if the business combination is 
achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the 
acquiree, less the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed. Acquisition costs are accounted for as an expense  
in the period incurred. For acquisitions that were made by the Group 
between its initial adoption of IFRS in 2005 and 31 December 2009 
goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the 
Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of the acquired. Transaction costs, other than those 
associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group 
incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as 
part of the cost of the acquisition. 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   5 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 59 
In accordance with the transitional rules of IFRS 1, the Company has  
not restated business combinations that took place prior to the date of 
transition to IFRS of 1 January 2004. As a consequence the Scheme  
of Arrangement entered into in 1998 whereby the Company acquired 
Elementis Holdings Limited and applied the true and fair override to 
account for the transaction as a merger has not been restated  
under IFRS. 
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and 
expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from 
transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated 
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are 
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that 
there is no evidence of impairment. 
Foreign currency  
(a) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies 
are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that 
are stated at fair value are translated at exchange rates ruling at the 
dates the fair value was determined. 
(b) Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities 
of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments 
arising on consolidation, are translated at exchange rates ruling at the 
balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations 
are translated at the average rates of exchange ruling for the relevant 
period. Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 on 
translation are taken to the translation reserve. They are recognised  
in the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.  
The Group may hedge a portion of the translation of its overseas net 
assets through pounds sterling and euro borrowings. From 1 January 
2005, the Group has elected to apply net investment hedge 
accounting for these transactions where possible. Where hedging is 
applied, the effective portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used 
to hedge a net investment is recognised in equity. Any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.  
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has 
significant influence, but not control over the financial and operating 
policies. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share 
of the post acquisition total recognised gains and losses and the net 
assets of associates on an equity accounted basis. Where the Group’s 
share of losses exceeds its investment in an associate, the Group’s 
carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is 
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred a legal  
or constructive obligation.  
Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment 
are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Leasehold property is depreciated over 
the period of the lease. Freehold buildings, plant and machinery, fixtures, 
fittings and equipment are depreciated over their estimated useful lives  
on a straight line basis. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual 
values are assessed at the reporting date. No depreciation is charged  
on assets under construction until the asset is brought into use.  
Estimates of useful lives of these assets are: 
Buildings 10–50 years 
Plant and machinery 2–20 years 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2–20 years 
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is 
recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the 
future economic benefits embodied within it will flow to the Group and its 
cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the day to day servicing of 
property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement  
as incurred. 
Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of 
impairment to carrying values of property, plant and equipment. 
Impairment reviews are based on risk adjusted discounted cash flow 
projections. Significant judgement is applied to the assumptions 
underlying these projections which include estimated discount rates, 
growth rates, future selling prices and direct costs. Changes to these 
assumptions could have a material impact on the financial position of  
the Group and on the result for the year. 
Intangible assets 
(a)  Goodwill All business combinations since the transition to IFRS on  
1 January 2004 are accounted for by applying the purchase method. 
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since the 
transition date, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of 
the consideration given and the fair value of net identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. In respect of acquisitions 
prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, 
which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and tested annually for 
impairment. Changes to the assumptions used in impairment testing 
could have a material impact on the financial position of the Group 
and of the result for the year. 
(b)  Research and development Expenditure on research is recognised  
in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Expenditure on 
development where research findings are applied to a plan or design 
for the production of new or substantially improved products and 
processes is capitalised if the product or process is technically and 
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to 
complete development. Expenditure capitalised is stated as the cost 
of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads 
less accumulated amortisation. Other development expenditure is 
recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.  
(c)  Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost  
or when arising in a business combination, estimated fair value, less 
accumulated amortisation. 
(d)  Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on  
a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets 
unless such lives are indefinite. On this basis there is no amortisation 
of intangible assets relating to brand. Goodwill is systematically tested 
for impairment at each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets, 
comprising customer lists, trademarks, patents and non-compete 
clauses, are amortised over their estimated useful lives which range  
from 5–10 years. 
Impairment The carrying amount of non-current assets other than 
deferred tax is compared to the asset’s recoverable amount at each 
balance sheet date where there is an indication of impairment. For 
goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets 
that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at 
each balance sheet date. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the 
carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income 
statement. 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   6 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
60 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
1 Accounting policies (continued) 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other 
assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. A cash generating unit is the 
smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are 
largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of 
assets.  
The recoverable amount is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the 
cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Leased assets Leases which result in the Group receiving substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are treated as finance 
leases. An asset held under a finance lease is recorded in the balance 
sheet and depreciated over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the 
lease term. Future instalments net of finance charges are included within 
borrowings. Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the 
finance charge, which is allocated to each period to produce a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining liability and charged to the 
income statement and reduction of the outstanding liability. Rental costs 
arising from operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the 
period of the lease. 
Investments Investments comprising loans and receivables are stated  
at amortised cost. 
Government grants Grants against capital expenditure from government 
and other bodies are shown separately in the balance sheet. Such grants 
are released to the profit and loss account over the same period for which 
the relevant assets are depreciated. 
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price, less estimated 
costs of completion and selling expenses. Cost, which is based on a 
weighted average, includes expenditure incurred in acquiring stock and 
bringing it to its existing location and condition. In the case of 
manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an 
appropriate share of overheads attributable to manufacture, based  
on normal operating capacity. 
Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are 
stated at their nominal amount which is the original invoiced amount less 
provision made for bad and doubtful receivables. Estimated irrecoverable 
amounts are based on the ageing of receivables and historical experience. 
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deem them 
no longer to be collectable. 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations A non-
current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset (a 
disposal group), is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be 
recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use,  
it is available for immediate sale and is highly probable within one year.  
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal 
groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss.  
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement. 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of 
operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, 
that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or that meets the criteria 
to be classified as held for sale. 
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash 
balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of 
cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 
Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at cost (which is equal to 
the fair value at inception), and are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method. Any difference between the 
proceeds, net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of 
borrowings is recognised over the terms of the borrowings using the 
effective interest rate method. 
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing borrowings  
and are initially measured at fair value and subsequently carried at 
amortised cost. 
Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to issue of ordinary 
shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity. 
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of 
the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised 
as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares by the Company are 
classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from  
total equity.  
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate 
risks. The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments  
for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. Due to the 
requirement to measure the effectiveness of hedging instruments, 
changes in market conditions can result in the recognition of unrealised 
gains or losses on hedging instruments in the income statement. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The 
gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately  
in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the item being hedged. The fair value of forward exchange 
contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being  
the present value of the quoted forward price. 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   7 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61 
(a) Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is 
designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised 
asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective 
part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is 
recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of 
the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
(b) Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is 
designated as a hedge of the variability in a fair value of a recognised 
asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in 
the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the 
income statement. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted 
by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged 
(even if it is normally carried at cost or amortised cost) and any gains 
or losses on remeasurement are recognised immediately in the 
income statement (even if those gains would normally be recognised 
directly in reserves). 
Termination benefits Termination benefits are recognised as an expense 
when the Group is demonstrably committed, without realistic possibility of 
withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to terminate employment before the 
normal retirement date. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies 
are recognised if the Group has made an offer encouraging voluntary 
redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted and the number 
of acceptances can be estimated reliably. 
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts 
and rebates. Revenue is recognised in the income statement only where 
there is evidence, usually in the form of a sales agreement, that the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the 
customer and where the collectability of revenue is reasonably assured. 
Exceptional items The Group presents certain items separately as 
’exceptional’. These are items which in management’s judgement, need 
to be disclosed by virtue of their size and incidence in order for the user  
to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. The 
determination of which items are separately disclosed as exceptional 
items requires a degree of judgement. 
Other expenses Other expenses are administration costs incurred and 
paid by the Group's pension schemes, which relate primarily to former 
employees of legacy businesses.  
Finance income and finance costs Finance income comprises interest 
income on funds invested and changes in the fair value of financial assets 
at fair value taken to the income statement. Interest income is recognised 
as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Finance costs comprise 
interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, 
dividends on preference shares classified as liabilities, foreign currency 
losses and changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value taken 
to the income statement. All borrowing costs are recognised in the 
income statement using the effective interest method. 
Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises 
current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income 
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly 
in equity or in other comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected 
tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is provided on 
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for 
taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided 
for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a 
business combination; and differences relating to investments in 
subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available  
against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised. 
The Group is required to estimate the income tax in each of the 
jurisdictions in which it operates. This requires an estimation of current tax 
liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which 
arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments. The 
Group operates in a number of countries in the world and is subject to 
many tax jurisdictions and rules. As a consequence the Group is subject 
to tax audits, which by their nature are often complex and can require 
several years to conclude. Management’s judgement is required to 
determine the total provision for income tax. Amounts are accrued based 
on management’s interpretation of country specific tax law and likelihood 
of settlement. However the actual tax liabilities could differ from the 
position and in such events an adjustment would be required in the 
subsequent period which could have a material impact. Tax benefits are 
not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable. 
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax 
benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full 
recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through 
negotiation. This evaluation requires judgements to be made including  
the forecast of future taxable income. 
Share based payments The fair value of equity settled share options, 
cash settled shadow options and LTIP awards granted to employees is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The 
fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the 
options/awards. The fair value of the options/awards granted is measured 
using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the options/awards were granted. The amount recognised as 
an employee expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share 
options/awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share 
prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   8 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
62 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
1 Accounting policies (continued) 
Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’) 
Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT are included in the 
consolidated financial statements. In particular, the ESOT’s purchases  
of shares in the Company are charged directly to equity. 
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted New standards, 
amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective  
for the year ended 31 December 2013, and have not been applied in 
preparing these consolidated financial statements, but that become 
mandatory for the Group’s 2014 financial statements are as follows: 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
These standards relate to consolidation and the accounting for 
subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates. 
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011) 
This standard amends IAS 28 (2008) in respect of the treatment of 
associates and joint ventures when held for sale and for when changes in 
interests occur. 
Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities – Amendments to IAS 32 
The amendments clarify the offsetting criteria when an entity has a legal 
right of set-off and when gross settlement is equivalent to net settlement. 
The Group has not yet determined the potential impact of these new 
standards and interpretations on the 2014 financial statements. 
 
2 Operating segments 
Business segments 
The Group has determined its operating segments on the basis of those 
used for management, internal reporting purposes and the allocation of 
strategic resources. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8, the 
Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors. The 
three reportable segments, Specialty Products, Surfactants and 
Chromium each have distinct product groupings and, with the exception 
of Surfactants which shares a common management structure with 
Specialty Products, separate management structures. Segment results, 
assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment and 
those that may be reasonably allocated from corporate activities. 
Presentation of the segmental results is on a basis consistent with those 
used for reporting Group results. Principal activities of the reportable 
segments are as follows: 
Specialty Products – Production of rheological additives, 
   compounded products and colourants. 
Surfactants   – Production of surface active ingredients. 
Chromium   – Production of chromium chemicals. 
 
The inter-segment revenue identified below represents the sale of  
these products from the Chromium to the Specialty Products business.  
Inter-segment pricing is set at a level that equates to the manufacturing 
cost of the product plus a commercially appropriate mark up. 
Unallocated items and those relating to corporate functions such as  
tax and treasury are presented in the tables below as central costs.  
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   9 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 63 
Segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December 2013 
 2013 
 
Specialty 
Products 
$million 
Surfactants 
$million 
Chromium 
$million 
Segment 
totals 
$million 
Central 
costs 
$million 
Total  
$million 
Revenue 502.8 72.2 214.8 789.8 – 789.8 
Internal revenue – – (13.0) (13.0) – (13.0)
Revenue from external customers 502.8 72.2 201.8 776.8 – 776.8 
Operating profit before exceptionals 100.9 5.9 56.0 162.8 (16.2) 146.6 
Head office cost allocations (1.8) (0.3) (0.9) (3.0) 3.0 – 
Exceptionals 0.7 1.3 (10.5) (8.5) 6.8 (1.7)
Profit/(loss) before interest 99.8 6.9 44.6 151.3 (6.4) 144.9 
Other expenses – – – – (2.0) (2.0)
Finance income – – – – 0.2 0.2 
Finance expense – – – – (8.8) (8.8)
Taxation – pre-exceptional  – – – – (29.4) (29.4)
Taxation – exceptional – – – – 1.8 1.8 
Profit/(loss) for the period 99.8 6.9 44.6 151.3 (44.6) 106.7 
Fixed assets 506.5 22.0 66.9 595.4 (10.7) 584.7 
Inventories 70.2 7.6 50.5 128.3 – 128.3 
Trade and other receivables 69.7 12.1 34.4 116.2 10.0 126.2 
Deferred tax assets – – – – 8.6 8.6 
Derivatives – – – – 0.4 0.4 
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – 64.5 64.5 
Segment assets 646.4 41.7 151.8 839.9 72.8 912.7 
Trade and other payables (61.8) (14.1) (21.7) (97.6) (13.5) (111.1)
Operating provisions – – – – (26.3) (26.3)
Other liabilities – – (11.8) (11.8) – (11.8)
Bank overdrafts and loans – – – – (10.4) (10.4)
Derivatives – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Current tax liabilities – – – – (14.4) (14.4)
Retirement benefit obligations – – – – (99.3) (99.3)
Deferred tax liabilities – – – – (93.5) (93.5)
Government grants – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Segment liabilities (61.8) (14.1) (33.5) (109.4) (257.8) (367.2)
Net assets 584.6 27.6 118.3 730.5 (185.0) 545.5 
Capital additions 22.4 4.9 7.2 34.5 1.2 35.7 
Depreciation and amortisation (13.8) (2.1) (7.4) (23.3) (0.6) (23.9)
 
Information by geographic area 
North 
America 
$million 
United 
Kingdom 
$million 
Rest of  
Europe 
$million 
Rest of the 
World 
$million 
Total  
$million 
Revenue from external customers 273.9 33.6 201.1 268.2 776.8 
Non-current assets 434.0 44.1 39.0 67.6 584.7 
Capital additions 24.4 1.1 7.1 3.1 35.7 
Depreciation and amortisation (15.8) (1.2) (3.1) (3.8) (23.9)
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   10 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
64 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
2 Operating segments (continued) 
Segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December 2012 
 2012 
 
Specialty 
Products 
restated* 
$million 
Surfactants 
 
$million 
Chromium 
 
$million 
Segment 
 totals 
 
$million 
Central 
 costs 
restated**  
$million 
Total 
restated** 
 $million 
Revenue 458.7 72.5 240.1 771.3 – 771.3 
Internal revenue – – (14.3) (14.3) – (14.3)
Revenue from external customers 458.7 72.5 225.8 757.0 – 757.0 
Operating profit 90.4 5.1 63.7 159.2 (15.3) 143.9 
Head office cost allocations (0.3) (0.3) (0.9) (1.5) 1.5 – 
Profit before interest 90.1 4.8 62.8 157.7 (13.8) 143.9 
Other expenses – – – – (2.5) (2.5)
Finance income – – – – 0.8 0.8 
Finance expense – – – – (8.8) (8.8)
Taxation – – – – (33.1) (33.1)
Profit/(loss) for the period 90.1 4.8 62.8 157.7 (57.4) 100.3 
Fixed assets 469.3 18.5 66.9 554.7 (11.2) 543.5 
Inventories 67.5 7.0 54.1 128.6 – 128.6 
Trade and other receivables 62.8 11.2 38.4 112.4 6.7 119.1 
Deferred tax assets – – – – 12.4 12.4 
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – 63.1 63.1 
Segment assets 599.6 36.7 159.4 795.7 71.0 866.7 
Trade and other payables (46.1) (12.8) (29.4) (88.3) (11.7) (100.0)
Operating provisions – – – – (28.6) (28.6)
Other liabilities – – (11.9) (11.9) – (11.9)
Bank overdrafts and loans – – – – (19.1) (19.1)
Derivatives – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Current tax liabilities – – – – (9.0) (9.0)
Retirement benefit obligations – – – – (137.4) (137.4)
Deferred tax liabilities – – – – (78.9) (78.9)
Government grants – – – – (0.6) (0.6)
Segment liabilities (46.1) (12.8) (41.3) (100.2) (285.7) (385.9)
Net assets 553.5 23.9 118.1 695.5 (214.7) 480.8 
Capital additions 26.3 3.4 7.8 37.5 1.5 39.0 
Depreciation and amortisation (11.9) (2.3) (6.6) (20.8) (0.5) (21.3)
* restated for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
** restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard and for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
Information by geographic area 
North 
America 
$million 
 United 
Kingdom 
$million 
Rest of  
Europe 
$million 
Rest of the  
World 
$million 
Total  
$million 
Revenue from external customers 274.5 31.7 196.3 254.5 757.0 
Non-current assets 394.4 43.7 33.6 71.8 543.5 
Capital additions 30.3 2.3 4.9 1.5 39.0 
Depreciation and amortisation (13.5) (1.0) (3.3) (3.5) (21.3)
 
3 Finance income 
 
2013 
$million 
2012  
$million 
Interest on bank deposits 0.2 0.8 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   11 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 65 
4 Finance costs 
 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated* 
 $million 
Interest on bank loans 2.5 3.4 
Pension and other post retirement liabilities 4.5 4.1 
Unwind of discount on provisions 1.8 1.3 
 8.8 8.8 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
5 Exceptional items 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
$million 
Post employment benefits 0.1 – 
Environmental provisions (0.2) – 
Other (1.6)  
 (1.7) – 
Deferred tax credit 1.8 – 
 0.1 – 
The Group has continued its separate presentation of certain items as exceptional. These are items which, in management’s judgement, need to be 
disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.  
Post employment benefits  
In 2013 the Group settled a 2009 claim made by a group of its Dutch pensioners and released the balance of a provision made at the time the claim was 
lodged, resulting in a credit of $3.3 million being recorded. Following the closure of the Eaglescliffe site there remain a number of post employment 
payments to former employees that will continue for a period of time. The Group has concluded that it would be appropriate to make a provision for 
these payments under IAS 19 and has therefore recorded an exceptional charge of $3.2 million. 
Environmental provisions  
A number of structural changes were made to the Group’s provisions in 2013. A fixed term indemnity given by the Group to a third party in 1998 expired 
and, as a result, the related balance sheet provision of $9.8 million was released.  
During the year the closure plan for the Eaglescliffe chromium plant was finalised in consultation with regulatory authorities and an additional $5.0 million 
provision for closure costs was made.  
Following a review of the provisioning methodology and timing of the Group’s anticipated spend on environmental matters the Group concluded that it 
would be appropriate to reduce the discount rate being used to calculate the current liability and this resulted in a charge of $5.8 million.  
Other adjustments to existing environmental provisions resulted in a credit of $0.8 million. There was a deferred tax credit of $1.8 million relating to the 
adjustments to environmental provisions. Details of the Group’s environmental provisions are included in Note 15. 
Other adjustments  
In 2013 the Group exited a long term office lease, resulting in a charge of $0.6 million. The Group also increased its provision for a 2002 dispute relating 
to the filing of an industry report with the US Environmental Protection Agency, resulting in a charge of $1.0 million. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   12 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
66 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
6 Income tax expense 
 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated*  
$million 
Current tax:   
Overseas corporation tax 21.3 15.6 
Adjustments in respect of prior years:   
Overseas (0.5) (1.1)
Total current tax 20.8 14.5 
Deferred tax:   
United Kingdom 0.9 3.7 
Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.4 – 
Overseas 4.1 14.1 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 0.8 
Total deferred tax 6.8 18.6 
Income tax expense for the year 27.6 33.1 
Comprising:   
Before exceptional items 29.4 33.1 
Exceptional items** (1.8) – 
 27.6 33.1 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
** see Note 5 
The tax charge on profit represents an effective tax rate on profit before exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 21.6 per cent (2012: 
24.8 per cent). As a Group involved in overseas operations, the amount of profitability in each jurisdiction, transfer pricing legislation and local tax rate 
changes, will affect future tax charges. 
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 
 
2013 
 
$million  
2013 
 
per cent 
2012 
restated* 
$million  
2012 
restated*  
per cent 
Profit before tax 134.3 – 133.4 – 
Tax on ordinary activities at 23.25 per cent (2012: 24.5 per cent)** 31.2 23.3 32.7 24.5 
Difference in overseas effective tax rates 10.9 8.1 15.2 11.4 
Income not chargeable for tax purposes (9.8) (7.3) (5.8) (4.3) 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 
Tax losses and other deductions (6.1) (4.5) (8.7) (6.5) 
Tax rate adjustments to deferred tax – – 1.8 1.3 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 0.6  (0.3) (0.2) 
Share options tax credit – –  (2.0) (1.5) 
Tax charge and effective tax rate for the year 27.6 20.6 33.1 24.8 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
** tax rate reflects reduction in UK corporation tax rate from 24 per cent to 23 per cent with effect from April 2013 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   13 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 67 
7 Profit for the year 
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
$million 
Employee costs 104.7 98.8 
Net foreign exchange gains  (1.8)  (1.2)
Research and development costs 7.6 7.2 
Government grants (0.4)  (0.4)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 20.8 19.7 
Amortisation of intangible assets 3.5 2.1 
Total depreciation and amortisation expense 24.3 21.8 
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 385.6 368.8 
Fees available to the Company’s auditor and its associates:   
Audit of the Company’s financial statements 0.2 0.2 
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 
Audit related assurance services (half year review)  0.1 0.1 
Tax compliance services 0.3 0.2 
Other tax advisory services 0.3 0.6 
 
8 Employees 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
$million 
Employee costs:   
Wages and salaries 92.6 87.0 
Social security costs 7.6 7.6 
Pension costs 4.5 4.2 
 104.7 98.8 
 
 Number Number 
Average number of FTE employees*:   
Specialty Products 946 883 
Surfactants 152 161 
Chromium 254 266 
Central 13 13 
Total 1,365 1,323 
* full time equivalent including contractors 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   14 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
68 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
9 Earnings per share 
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent is based on the following: 
 
2013 
 
 $million 
2012 
restated* 
 $million 
Earnings:   
Earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share 106.6 100.3 
Exceptional items net of tax 0.1 – 
Adjusted earnings 106.7 100.3 
 
 
2013 
million 
2012 
million 
Number of shares:   
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 456.9 451.8 
Effect of dilutive share options 6.8 8.6 
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 463.7 460.4 
 
 
2013 
 
 cents 
2012 
restated* 
cents 
Earnings per share:   
Basic 23.3 22.2 
Diluted 23.0 21.8 
Basic before exceptional items 23.3 22.2 
Diluted before exceptional items 23.0 21.8 
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   15 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 69 
10 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
 
 Goodwill 
restated* 
$million 
Brand 
restated* 
$million 
Other 
intangible 
 assets 
restated* 
$million 
Total 
restated* 
$million 
Cost:     
At 1 January 2012  304.8 17.4 20.0 342.2 
Exchange differences 1.5 0.5 0.5 2.5 
Acquisition of subsidiary 14.8 2.0 3.7 20.5 
Additions – – 0.7 0.7 
At 1 January 2013 321.1 19.9 24.9 365.9 
Exchange differences (0.1) (0.4) (0.8) (1.3)
Acquisition of subsidiary 14.1 4.9 9.7 28.7 
Additions – – 1.5 1.5 
At 31 December 2013 335.1 24.4 35.3 394.8 
     
Amortisation:     
At 1 January 2012 – – 7.1 7.1 
Charge for the year – – 2.1 2.1 
At 1 January 2013 – – 9.2 9.2 
Charge for the year – – 3.5 3.5 
At 31 December 2013 – – 12.7 12.7 
      
Carrying amount:     
At 31 December 2013 335.1 24.4 22.6 382.1 
At 31 December 2012 321.1 19.9 15.7 356.7 
At 1 January 2012 304.8 17.4 12.9 335.1 
* restated for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. The carrying value of goodwill relates to Elementis Specialty Products $331.5 million, including $14.1 million and $14.8 million 
from the Hi-Mar and Watercryl acquisitions respectively (see Note 29), and Elementis Surfactants $3.6 million.  There is no goodwill associated with 
Elementis Chromium. 
The Group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts of the 
CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, 
growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that 
reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. In order to stress test the results over a wider range of 
conditions, management has expanded its testing to include discount rates based on a variety of equity risk premiums and different capital structures 
that reflect the potential variability of risk within the CGUs and the Group’s long term financing options. In this exercise a range of discount rates from 
10.2 per cent to 16.0 per cent (2012: 9.0 per cent to 13.8 per cent) was used. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent three year plans approved by management for the next three years and 
extrapolates cash flows for the following seventeen years based on estimated growth rates of 0–2.5 per cent. The rates do not exceed the average long 
term growth rate for the relevant markets and also take into account potential, future capacity limitations for the Chromium business. Changes in selling 
prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. The results of the impairment testing using the 
assumptions discussed show that there is no indication that goodwill might be impaired. 
The brand intangibles represent the value ascribed to the trading name and reputation of the Deuchem, Fancor, Watercryl and Hi-Mar acquisitions.  
The Group considers these to have significant and on-going value to the business that will be maintained and it is therefore considered appropriate  
to assign these assets an indefinite useful life. Brand intangibles are tested annually for impairment using similar assumptions to the goodwill testing.  
The remaining intangible assets comprise of the value ascribed to customer lists, patents and non-compete clauses, which are being amortised over 
periods of 5–10 years. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   16 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
70 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
11 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Land and  
buildings 
restated* 
$million 
Plant and  
machinery 
restated* 
$million 
Fixtures, 
 fittings and  
equipment 
restated* 
$million 
Under 
construction 
 
$million 
Total 
restated* 
$million 
Cost:      
At 1 January 2012 146.2 487.0 47.3 12.1 692.6 
Additions 0.1 0.3 – 37.9 38.3 
Exchange differences 2.6 10.3 0.2 0.3 13.4 
Acquisitions 2.6 1.8 – – 4.4 
Disposals (9.3) (5.0) (7.2) – (21.5)
Reclassifications 6.1 17.1 3.1 (26.3) – 
At 31 December 2012 148.3 511.5 43.4 24.0 727.2 
Additions 0.3 3.1 – 30.6 34.0 
Exchange differences 1.2 8.8 0.6 0.1 10.7 
Acquisitions – 2.3 – – 2.3 
Disposals (0.3) (1.5) (0.3) – (2.1)
Reclassifications 2.8 18.7 1.9 (23.4) – 
At 31 December 2013 152.3 542.9 45.6 31.3 772.1 
      
Accumulated depreciation:      
At 1 January 2012 100.2 386.4 42.2 – 528.8 
Charge for the year 3.5 14.9 1.3 – 19.7 
Exchange differences 1.9 9.9 0.2 – 12.0 
Disposals (9.0) (4.1) (7.0) – (20.1)
Reclassifications – – – – – 
At 31 December 2012 96.6 407.1 36.7 – 540.4 
Charge for the year 3.4 16.2 1.2 – 20.8 
Exchange differences 1.4 8.0 0.5 – 9.9 
Disposals (0.1) (1.2) (0.3) – (1.6)
Reclassifications – (0.1) 0.1 – – 
At 31 December 2013 101.3 430.0 38.2 – 569.5 
      
Net book value:      
At 31 December 2013 51.0 112.9 7.4 31.3 202.6 
At 31 December 2012 51.7 104.4 6.7 24.0 186.8 
At 1 January 2012 46.0 100.6 5.1 12.1 163.8 
* restated for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
Group capital expenditure contracted but not provided for in these financial statements amounted to $nil (2012: $nil ).  
Land and buildings comprised the following: 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
 $million 
Freehold property 152.0 153.0 
Short leasehold properties 0.3 0.3 
 152.3 153.3 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   17 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 71 
12 Inventories 
 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated* 
$million 
Raw materials and consumables 63.0 61.9 
Work in progress 11.6 9.7 
Finished goods and goods purchased for resale 53.7 57.0 
 128.3 128.6 
* restated for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
Inventories are disclosed net of provisions for obsolescence of $6.4 million (2012: $7.8 million). 
13 Trade and other receivables 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
 $million 
Trade receivables 115.8 108.9 
Other receivables 4.8 4.8 
Prepayments and accrued income 5.6 5.4 
 126.2 119.1 
 
14 Trade and other payables 
 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated*  
$million 
Trade payables 67.9 47.6 
Other taxes and social security 1.2 1.4 
Other payables 6.6 5.2 
Accruals and deferred income 35.4 45.8 
 111.1 100.0 
* restated for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
15 Provisions 
 
Environmental  
$million 
Chromium UK  
closure 
 $million  
Self- 
insurance 
$million 
Total  
$million 
At 1 January 2013 21.9 15.7 2.9 40.5 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:     
Exceptional items – additional provisions 5.6 4.4 – 10.0 
Exceptional items – unused amounts reversed (9.8) – – (9.8)
Additional provisions 0.2 – 0.8 1.0 
Unwinding of discount 1.0 0.8 – 1.8 
Utilised during the year (2.0) (3.2) (0.5) (5.7)
Currency translation differences 0.2 0.1 – 0.3 
At 31 December 2013 17.1 17.8 3.2 38.1 
     
Due within one year 4.0 1.8 0.2 6.0 
Due after one year 13.1 16.0 3.0 32.1 
Environmental provisions relate to manufacturing and distribution sites including certain sites no longer owned by the Group. These provisions have been 
derived using a discounted cash flow methodology and reflect the extent to which it is probable that expenditure will be incurred over the next 20 years.  
The Chromium UK closure provision contains all anticipated costs relating to closure including environmental costs. 
Self-insurance provisions at 31 December 2013 represent the aggregate of outstanding claims plus a projection of losses incurred but not reported.  
The self-insurance provisions are expected to be utilised within five years. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   18 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
72 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
16 Deferred tax 
 
Retirement  
benefit  
plans 
restated* 
$million 
Accelerated 
tax  
depreciation 
 
$million 
Amortisation  
of US  
goodwill 
 
$million 
Temporary  
differences 
restated** 
$million 
Unrelieved  
tax losses 
 
$million 
Total 
restated***  
$million 
At 1 January 2012 19.6 (22.7) (85.9) 1.2 27.5 (60.3)
(Charge)/credit to the income statement (0.3) 4.6 (7.0) (5.0) (10.9) (18.6)
Credit to other comprehensive income 4.1 – – – – 4.1 
Credit to retained earnings – – – 10.6 – 10.6 
Acquisition – – – (3.5) – (3.5)
Currency translation differences – (0.1) – 1.3 – 1.2 
At 1 January 2013 23.4 (18.2) (92.9) 4.6 16.6 (66.5)
(Charge)/credit to the income statement (3.2) (5.4) (0.1) 4.0 (2.1) (6.8)
Credit to other comprehensive income (10.3) –  –  (10.3)
Credit to retained earnings – – – (2.5) – (2.5)
Currency translation differences (0.7) – – 1.9 – 1.2 
At 31 December 2013 9.2 (23.6) (93.0) 8.0 14.5 (84.9)
       
Deferred tax assets 1.9 0.1 – 5.9 0.7 8.6 
Deferred tax liabilities 7.3 (23.7) (93.0) 2.1 13.8 (93.5)
* restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
** restated for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
*** restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard and for updated provisional fair value adjustment 
At 31 December 2013 the full amount of ACT previously written-off, available for offset against future UK profits, was $41.4 million (2012: $41.1 million). 
Additional tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised and for which there is no expiry date were $2.5 million (2012: $2.4 million). 
These relate to restricted losses within the UK and have reduced in the year due to the restructuring within subsidiaries. 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which the future 
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. Where this is not the case, deferred tax assets have not been recognised. There are no 
significant temporary differences arising in connection with interests in subsidiaries and associates. 
17 Share capital 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
 $million 
At 1 January 43.7 43.4 
Issue of shares 0.4 0.3 
At 31 December 44.1 43.7 
Details of share capital are set out in Note 7 to the parent company financial statements. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   19 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 73 
18 Other reserves  
 
Capital  
redemption  
reserve  
$million 
Translation  
reserve  
$million 
Hedging  
reserve  
$million 
Share 
options  
reserve  
$million 
Total  
$million 
At 1 January 2012 158.8 (29.0) (7.8) 3.8 125.8 
Share based payments – – – 3.6 3.6 
Exchange differences – 1.4 – – 1.4 
Decrease in fair value of derivatives – – 0.3 – 0.3 
Transfer – – – (0.8) (0.8)
At 1 January 2013 158.8 (27.6) (7.5) 6.6 130.3 
Share based payments – – – 3.2 3.2 
Exchange differences – (1.2) – – (1.2)
Decrease in fair value of derivatives – – 0.8 – 0.8 
Transfer – – – (3.2) (3.2)
Balance at 31 December 2013 158.8 (28.8) (6.7) 6.6 129.9 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations as well as 
from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary. The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of 
the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred. 
19 Borrowings 
 
2013  
$million 
2012  
$million 
Bank loans 10.4 19.1 
   
The borrowings are repayable as follows: 
   
Within one year 8.7 5.6 
In the second year 1.5 12.3 
In the third year 0.2 1.0 
In the fourth year – 0.2 
After more than five years – – 
 10.4 19.1 
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 
 
2013 
 per cent 
2012 
per cent 
Bank loans 1.7 2.0 
Of the US dollar borrowings, $1.9 million was unsecured (2012: $11.0 million), bearing interest at the relevant interbank rates plus a margin. The Taiwan 
dollar and remaining US dollar borrowings consisted of unsecured borrowings, those secured by time deposits and those secured by charges over 
various land and buildings in Taiwan. Group borrowings were denominated as follows:   
 US Dollar 
Taiwan 
Dollar Total 
Bank loans    
31 December 2012 13.0 6.1 19.1 
31 December 2013 3.9 6.5 10.4 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   20 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
74 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
20 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise the following: 
 
2013 
$million 
2012  
$million 
Cash and cash equivalents 64.5 63.1 
21 Financial risk management 
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: 
• Credit risk. 
• Liquidity risk. 
• Market risk. 
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk 
management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks 
and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s 
activities. 
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews 
the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Group’s Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight 
role by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are 
reported to the Audit Committee. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and 
arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. 
Trade and other receivables 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer 
base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk. No single customer 
accounts for a significant proportion of the Group’s revenue. 
Each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The 
Group’s review includes external ratings, where available, and in some cases bank references. Purchase limits are established for each customer, which 
represents the maximum open amount without requiring approval from the Board. Customers that fail to meet the Group’s benchmark creditworthiness 
may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The main 
components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component 
established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss allowance is determined 
based on historical data of payment statistics for similar assets. 
Investments 
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through a treasury policy that imposes graduated limits on the amount of funds that can be deposited with 
counterparties by reference to the counterparties’ credit ratings, as defined by Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s. Management does not expect any 
counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to 
ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without 
incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group’s funding policy is to have committed borrowings in place to 
cover at least 125 per cent of the maximum forecast net borrowings for the next 12 month period. At the year end the Group had $121.0 million  
(2012: $203.5 million) of undrawn committed facilities, of which $102.6 million expires after more than one year.  
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income or the value of its 
holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable 
parameters, whilst optimising the return on risk. 
The Group uses derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks. All such transactions 
are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   21 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 75 
Currency risk 
The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a foreign currency other than the respective 
functional currencies of Group entities, primarily the US Dollar and the Euro. The Group hedges up to 100 per cent of current and forecast trade 
receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency. The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with  
a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date. 
Interest on borrowings is denominated in currencies that match the cash flows generated by the underlying operations of the Group, primarily US Dollar, but 
also Euro and GBP. This provides an economic hedge and no derivatives are entered into. In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary 
to address short term imbalances. The Group’s investment in overseas subsidiaries is hedged by US Dollar denominated drawdowns under the syndicated 
facility, which mitigates the currency risk arising from the translation of a subsidiary’s net assets. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s policy is to borrow at both fixed and floating interest rates and to use interest rate swaps to generate the required interest profile. The policy 
does not require that a specific proportion of the Group’s borrowings are at fixed rates of interest. 
Other market price risk  
Equity price risk arises from available for sale equity securities held within the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations. In respect of the US schemes, 
management monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in its investment portfolio based on market expectations. The primary goal of the Group’s 
investment strategy is to maximise investment returns, without excessive risk taking, in order to meet partially the Group’s unfunded benefit obligations; 
management is assisted by external advisors in this regard. In respect of the UK scheme, the investment strategy is set by the trustees and the Board is 
kept informed. 
The Group does not enter into commodity contracts other than to meet the Group’s expected usage and sale requirements; such contracts are not 
settled net. 
Capital management 
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of 
the business. The Board monitors the return on operating capital employed (‘ROCE’) including goodwill, as defined on page 15. The Group’s target is to 
achieve a ROCE (including goodwill) in excess of our weighted average cost of capital.  
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the Company through the Group’s savings related share option schemes. At present, employees 
including executive directors hold 0.3 per cent (2012: 0.3 per cent) of ordinary shares, or 2.0 per cent (2012: 2.7 per cent) assuming that all outstanding 
options vest or are exercised. 
Current dividend policy is to pay a progressive dividend of approximately one third of earnings per share before exceptional items. Additionally if the 
Group finishes the year in a net balance sheet cash position, and there are no immediate investment plans for that cash, the Group may recommend  
an additional special dividend of up to 50 per cent of the net cash amount. These dividend policies remain under review to ensure that they remain 
appropriate to the circumstances and strategy of the Group. 
 
2013  
$million 
2012  
 $million 
Recognised in profit or loss   
Interest income on bank deposits 0.2 0.8 
Financial income 0.2 0.8 
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred from equity – 1.2 
Interest on bank loan (2.5)  (3.4)
Net pension interest (4.5) (4.1)
Financial costs (7.0)  (6.3)
Net financial costs (6.8)  (5.5)
   
None of the above relates to financial assets or liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss.   
Recognised directly in equity   
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge 0.3  (0.5)
Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to income statement 0.5 0.8 
Effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge (1.1) 0.4 
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (0.1) 1.0 
   
Recognised in   
Hedging reserve 0.8 0.3 
Translation reserve (1.2) 1.4 
Derivatives used for hedging included within current assets amounted to $0.4 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: $nil) and $0.1 million within current 
liabilities (2012: $0.4 million).   
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   22 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
76 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
21 Financial risk management (continued) 
Loans and borrowings 
 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
 $million 
Current liabilities   
Unsecured bank loan 1.9 1.0 
Secured bank loan 6.8 4.6 
Non-current liabilities   
Unsecured bank loan – 10.0 
Secured bank loan 1.7 3.5 
 
Terms and debt repayment schedule 
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: 
 Currency 
Year of  
maturity 
Face value  
$million 
2013 
Carrying  
amount 
 $million 
Face value  
$million 
2012 
Carrying 
 amount  
$million 
Unsecured bank loan Multi 2018 – – 10.0 10.0 
Unsecured bank loan  USD 2014 1.9 1.9 1.0 1.0 
Secured bank loan USD 2014–2017 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 
Secured bank loan TWD 2014–2016 6.4 6.4 6.1 6.1 
Total interest bearing liabilities   10.4 10.4 19.1 19.1 
The multi-currency unsecured bank facility bears interest at Libor of the currency drawn down plus a margin based on the ratio of the Group’s net 
borrowings to EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation). The remaining loans bear interest at interest rates 
of between 1.8 per cent and 2.4 per cent. The secured bank loans are secured against land and buildings in Taiwan with a carrying value of $9.9 million. 
Exposure to credit risk 
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 
 Carrying amount 
 
2013 
$million 
2012  
$million 
Trade receivables 115.8 108.9 
Other receivables 4.8 4.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 64.5 63.1 
 185.1 176.8 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 
 Carrying amount 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
 $million 
North America 34.1 29.7 
Europe 35.3 34.9 
Rest of the World 46.4 44.3 
 115.8 108.9 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   23 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 77 
Impairment losses 
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 
 
Gross 
2013 
$million 
Impairment 
2013 
$million 
Gross 
2012 
$million 
Impairment  
2012  
$million 
Not past due 105.5 (0.5) 98.4 (1.0)
Past due 0–30 days 10.1 – 10.9 (0.2)
Past due 31–120 days 0.7 – 1.0 (0.2)
Past due > 1 year 0.2 (0.2) 0.3 (0.3)
Total 116.5 (0.7) 110.6 (1.7)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
$million 
2012  
$million 
Balance at 1 January 1.7 1.3 
Impairment loss recognised (1.0) 0.2 
Acquisition fair value adjustment – 0.2 
Balance at 31 December 0.7 1.7 
The provision for impairment relates primarily to customers of Elementis Chromium who, due to their payment history and geographic location, are 
assessed as having a higher exposure to credit risk than is acceptable. A provision is therefore deemed to be appropriate. 
Liquidity risk  
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: 
 31 December 2013 
 
Carrying 
 amount  
$million 
Contractual  
cash flows 
$million 
6 months  
or less 
$million 
6–12  
months 
$million 
1 year  
or more  
 $million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:      
Unsecured bank loan 1.9 (1.9) (1.0) (0.9) – 
Secured bank loan 8.5 (8.5) (6.8) – (1.7)
Trade and other payables* 75.7 (75.7) (75.7) – – 
 86.1 (86.1) (83.5) (0.9) (1.7)
*  excludes derivatives 
 
 31 December 2012 
 
Carrying  
amount 
$million 
Contractual  
cash flows 
$million 
6 months  
or less 
$million 
6–12  
months 
$million 
1 year  
or more  
$million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:      
Unsecured bank loan 11.0 (11.0) (10.0) (1.0) – 
Secured bank loan 8.1 (8.1) (0.3) (4.3) (3.5)
Trade and other payables* 54.5 (54.5) (54.5) – – 
 73.6 (73.6) (64.8) (5.3) (3.5)
*  excludes derivatives 
Bank loans have been drawn under committed facilities and can be re-financed on maturity from the same facilities. The contractual maturities indicated 
reflect the maturing of the loans rather than the end date of the facilities. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   24 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
78 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
21 Financial risk management (continued) 
Currency risk 
Exposure to currency risk  
The Group’s exposure to currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 
 2013 2012 
 
USD  
$million 
Euro  
$million 
Other  
$million 
USD 
$million 
Euro 
$million 
Other 
 $million 
Trade receivables 65.1 31.4 19.3 62.7 30.1 16.1 
Trade payables (32.0) (19.8) (16.1) (24.4) (12.9) (10.3)
Gross balance sheet exposure 33.1 11.6 3.2 38.3 17.2 5.8 
Forward exchange contracts – (24.9) – – (15.9) – 
Net exposure – (13.3) 3.2 – 1.3 5.8 
The main exchange rates relevant to the Group are set out in the Strategic report on page 14. 
Sensitivity analysis 
A 10 per cent strengthening of US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by 
the amounts shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. 
 
Equity 
$million 
Profit or loss  
$million 
31 December 2013   
GBP 7.9 2.7 
Euro (3.2) (2.4)
RMB (3.2) (1.0)
TWD (2.4) 0.2 
31 December 2012   
GBP 2.0 2.9 
Euro  (1.7) (4.0)
RMB  (3.0) (1.1)
TWD  (3.0) 0.3 
A 10 per cent strengthening of USD against all currencies will have increased/(decreased) the carrying amount of variable rate instruments as follows: 
 Carrying amount 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
$million 
Variable rate instruments 
Financial liabilities (0.6) (0.6)
 
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments 
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by the amounts shown below.  
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.  
 
100bp  
increase 
$million 
2013  
Profit or 
loss 
 100bp  
decrease 
$million 
100bp 
 increase  
$million 
2012 
Profit or  
loss  
100bp  
decrease  
 $million 
Variable rate instruments – – – – 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   25 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 79 
Fair values 
Fair values versus carrying amounts 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: 
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 
 
Carrying  
amount  
$million 
Fair value 
$million 
Carrying  
amount  
$million 
Fair value  
 $million 
Trade and other receivables 120.6 120.6 113.7 113.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 64.5 64.5 63.1 63.1 
Derivative contracts used for hedging:     
Assets 0.4 0.4 – – 
Liabilities (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) (0.4)
Unsecured bank facility (1.9) (1.9) (11.0) (11.0)
Secured bank loan (8.5) (8.5) (8.1) (8.1)
Trade and other payables* (111.1) (111.1) (100.0) (100.0)
 63.9 63.9 57.3 57.3 
Unrecognised gain/(loss) – – – – 
*  excludes derivatives 
Basis for determining fair values 
The Group measures fair values in respect of financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 13, using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the 
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements: 
Level 1: Quoted market price (unadjusted) in an active market for an identical instrument. 
Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly or indirectly. 
Level 3: Valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs. 
The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments. 
Derivatives (level 2) 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their listed market price, if available. If a listed market price is not available, then fair value is 
estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract 
using a risk free interest (based on government bonds). 
Non-derivatives financial liabilities (level 2) 
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting 
date. 
Trade and other receivables, Trade and other payables (level 3) 
The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the 
reporting date. 
Interest rates used for determining fair value 
The interest rates used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, are based on the government yield curve at the reporting date plus an 
adequate constant credit spread, and were as follows: 
 
2013  
per cent 
2012  
per cent 
Derivatives 4.1–8.2 4.1–7.8 
Borrowings 1.8–2.4 2.6–2.9 
The Group categorises its trade and other receivables and payables, excluding derivatives, within level 3 and all other financial instruments, including 
cash, loans and derivatives within level 2. At both 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 there was no difference between the carrying value and 
fair value of financial instruments. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   26 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
80 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
22 Operating leases 
 
2013 
$million 
2012  
$million 
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 3.9 4.0 
At the balance sheet date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
 
2013 
$million 
2012 
 $million 
Within one year 0.4 0.7 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.5 1.8 
After five years 22.1 23.3 
 24.0 25.8 
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, plant and machinery. Leases have varying terms and 
renewal rights. 
23 Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group has a number of contributory and non-contributory post retirement benefit plans providing retirement benefits for the majority of employees 
and executive directors. The main schemes in the UK, US and the Netherlands are of the defined benefit type, the benefit being based on number of 
years of service and either the employee’s final remuneration or the employee’s average remuneration during a period of years before retirement. The 
assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds or are unfunded but provided for on the Group balance sheet. In addition the 
Group operates an unfunded post retirement medical benefit (‘PRMB’) scheme in the US. The entitlement to these benefits is usually based on the 
employee remaining in service until retirement age and completion of a minimum service period.  
Other employee benefit schemes included in the table below relate to two unfunded pension schemes  and a long term service award scheme in 
Germany and a special benefits programme for a small number of former employees of the Eaglescliffe plant. 
Restatement of comparatives  
The revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard became effective from 1 January 2013 and has been implemented from that date. The standard makes 
substantial changes to the recognition, measurement and disclosure of retirement benefit obligations. The impact of the changes on the Group’s income 
statement, earnings per share and balance sheet for the year ended and as at 31 December 2012 is shown in the table below: 
 
Year ended  
31 December 
2012 
$million 
Income Statement   
Other expenses  (2.5)
Finance income (1.2)
Finance costs (4.1)
Decrease in profit before tax  (7.8) 
Reduction in tax charge  1.0 
Decrease in profit for the period  (6.8) 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
Deferred tax associated with pension and other post retirement schemes (1.0)
Balance Sheet  
Increase in retirement benefit obligations  (1.4) 
Decrease in retained earnings  (1.4) 
Earnings per share  cents 
Basic (1.5)
Diluted (1.5)
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   27 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 81 
Net defined benefit liability 
The net liability was as follows: 
 
UK pension  
scheme 
$million 
US pension  
schemes 
$million 
US PRMB  
scheme 
$million 
Netherlands  
pension  
scheme 
$million 
Other 
$million 
Total 
 $million 
2013   
Total market value of assets 765.9 107.9 – 63.7 – 937.5 
Present value of scheme liabilities (832.0) (123.5) (7.5) (67.4) (6.4) (1,036.8)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (66.1) (15.6) (7.5) (3.7) (6.4) (99.3)
 
 
UK pension  
scheme 
 $million 
US pension 
 schemes 
 $million 
US PRMB  
scheme  
$million 
Netherlands 
pension 
 scheme  
$million 
Other 
$million 
Total 
 $million 
2012   
Total market value of assets 724.7 93.4 – 60.5 – 878.6 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (797.6) (136.2) (8.5) (70.4) (3.3) (1,016.0)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet  (72.9) (42.8) (8.5) (9.9) (3.3) (137.4)
Employer contributions in 2013 were $21.4 million (2012: $21.1 million) to the UK scheme; $2.9 million (2012: $7.6 million) to US schemes and  
$1.9 million (2012: $1.8 million) in respect of the Netherlands scheme. Contributions in 2014 are expected to be approximately $49 million. Further 
details on agreed future payments to the UK pension scheme are included in the Finance report. 
Movement in net defined benefit liability 
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit liability and its components. 
 
UK pension 
 scheme  
$million 
US pension  
schemes  
$million 
US PRMB 
scheme  
$million 
Netherlands  
 pension 
 scheme 
$million 
Other 
$million 
 Total  
$million 
2013   
Balance at 1 January (72.9) (42.8) (8.5) (9.9) (3.3) (137.4)
Included in profit or loss   
Current service cost (0.8) (0.5) (0.1) (1.6) (0.1) (3.1)
Past service costs – – – 0.6 (3.2) (2.6)
Running costs (1.5) (0.4) – (0.1) – (2.0)
Settlement – – – 3.2 – 3.2 
Net interest expense (2.4) (1.5) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (4.4)
 (4.7) (2.4) (0.4) 2.0 (3.4) (8.9)
Included in other comprehensive income   
Remeasurements:   
Return on plan assets excluding interest income 18.0 16.6 – (3.5) – 31.1 
Actuarial gains/losses arising from demographic assumptions – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
Actuarial gains/losses arising from financial assumptions (9.0) 10.8 0.4 2.9 0.2 5.3 
Actuarial gains/losses arising from experience adjustment (17.9) 0.1 0.5 0.5 – (16.8)
Exchange differences (1.0) – – (0.3) (0.1) (1.4)
 (9.9) 27.2 0.9 (0.4) 0.1 17.9 
Contributions:   
Employers 21.4 2.4 0.5 4.6 0.2 29.1 
Deficit in schemes at 31 December (66.1) (15.6) (7.5) (3.7) (6.4) (99.3)
In 2013 the Netherlands pension scheme recognised a past service gain due to the change in state pension retirement age from 65 to 67. Both the 
settlement credit within the Netherlands pension scheme, relating to the resolution of a 2009 claim relating to changes made to the scheme in 2005, and 
past service charge associated with the recognition of additional Eaglescliffe post employment benefits, have been reflected within exceptional items. 
Further details can be found in Note 5. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   28 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
82 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
 
UK pension 
 scheme  
$million 
US pension  
schemes  
$million 
US PRMB 
scheme  
$million 
Netherlands  
 pension 
 scheme 
$million 
 
 
Other 
$million 
 Total  
$million 
2012  
Balance at 1 January (35.0) (41.4) (8.2) (9.1) (2.7) (96.4)
Included in profit or loss  
Current service cost (0.8) (0.4) (0.1) (0.8) (0.1) (2.2)
Running costs (1.7) (0.4) – (0.4) – (2.5)
Net interest expense (1.3) (1.9) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1) (3.8)
 (3.8) (2.7) (0.5) (1.3) (0.2) (8.5)
Included in other comprehensive income  
Remeasurements:  
Return on plan assets excluding interest income 4.7 7.2 – 10.9 – 22.8 
Actuarial gains/losses arising from demographic assumptions (7.2) (0.3) – – – (7.5)
Actuarial gains/losses arising from financial assumptions (39.2) (11.7) – (12.3) (0.4) (63.6)
Actuarial gains/losses arising from experience adjustment (11.0) (0.7) (0.5) 0.2 – (12.0)
Exchange differences (2.5) – – (0.1) (0.1) (2.7)
 (55.2) (5.5) (0.5) (1.3) (0.5) (63.0)
Contributions:  
– Employers 21.1 6.8 0.7 1.8 0.1 30.5 
Deficit in schemes at 31 December (72.9) (42.8) (8.5) (9.9) (3.3) (137.4)
 
Plan assets 
Plan assets comprise: 
 
UK pension  
scheme 
$million 
US pension  
schemes 
$million 
US PRMB  
scheme 
$million 
Netherlands  
pension  
scheme 
$million 
Total 
 $million 
2013      
Equities 330.0 80.5 – – 410.5 
Bonds 201.8 26.7 – 63.7 292.2 
Cash/liquidity funds 171.8 0.7 – – 172.5 
Other 62.3 – – – 62.3 
 765.9 107.9 – 63.7 937.5 
 
 
UK pension  
scheme 
$million 
US pension  
schemes 
$million 
US PRMB  
scheme 
$million 
Netherlands  
pension  
scheme 
$million 
Total 
 $million 
2012      
Equities 336.9 68.0 – – 404.9 
Bonds 219.2 23.6 – 60.5 303.3 
Cash/liquidity funds 162.5 1.8 – – 164.3 
Other 6.1 – – – 6.1 
 724.7 93.4 – 60.5 878.6 
All equities, bonds and liquidity funds have quoted prices in active markets. Other assets include  insured annuities, an insurance fund and various swap 
products. 
Within the UK pension scheme, the current asset allocation is approximately 55 per cent in a liability matching fund consisting of gilts (fixed interest and 
index linked), bonds, cash and swaps and 45 per cent in an investment fund that includes various equity and equity like funds. The aim of the trustees  
is to manage the risk relative to the liabilities associated with the scheme’s investments through a combination of diversification, inflation protection and 
hedging of risk (currency, interest rate and inflation risk). The US scheme currently has over 70 per cent of its asset value invested in a range of equity 
funds designed to target higher returns and thus reduce the pension deficit, with the balance invested in fixed income bonds and cash. The strategy  
is that as the deficit reduces, a greater proportion of investments will be made into liability matching funds. The Dutch scheme is fully insured with two 
registered insurance companies who guarantee the accrued nominal benefits, thus removing the downside risks to the Group, and who also decide the 
investment strategy. The assets in the plan currently consist mainly of government bonds.  
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   29 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 83 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the major schemes are as follows: 
 
UK pension 
 scheme 
$million 
US pension  
schemes  
$million 
US PRMB 
 scheme 
 $million 
Netherlands 
 pension 
scheme  
$million 
Total 
 $million 
2013      
Opening fair value of plan assets 724.7 93.4 – 60.5 878.6 
Expected return 28.2 3.3 – 2.2 33.7 
Running costs (1.5) (0.4) – (0.1) (2.0)
Past service costs – – – 0.5 0.5 
Actuarial gain/(loss) 18.0 16.6 – (3.4) 31.2 
Contributions by employer 21.4 2.4 – 2.0 25.8 
Contributions by employees 0.1 – – 0.9 1.0 
Benefits paid (40.2) (7.4) – (1.6) (49.2)
Exchange differences 15.2 – – 2.7 17.9 
Closing fair value of plan assets 765.9 107.9 – 63.7 937.5 
 
 
UK pension 
 scheme  
$million 
US pension  
schemes  
$million 
US PRMB  
scheme 
$million 
Netherlands  
 pension  
scheme  
$million 
Total  
$million 
2012      
Opening fair value of plan assets 677.1 82.9 – 45.8 805.8 
Expected return 31.9 3.8 – 2.2 37.9 
Running costs (1.7) (0.4) – (0.4) (2.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 4.7 7.2 – 10.9 22.8 
Contributions by employer 21.1 6.9 – 1.8 29.8 
Contributions by employees 0.1 – – 0.8 0.9 
Benefits paid  (40.2) (7.0) – (1.5) (48.7)
Exchange differences 31.7 – – 0.9 32.6 
Closing fair value of plan assets 724.7 93.4 – 60.5 878.6 
 
Defined benefit obligation 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the major schemes are as follows: 
 
UK pension  
scheme  
$million 
US pension 
 schemes  
$million 
US PRMB  
scheme 
 $million 
Netherlands  
 pension  
scheme  
$million 
Total  
 $million 
2013   
Opening defined benefit obligation (797.6) (136.2) (8.5) (70.4) (1,012.7)
Service cost (0.8) (0.5) (0.1) (1.6) (3.0)
Past service cost – – – 0.1 0.1 
Interest cost (30.6) (4.8) (0.3) (2.3) (38.0)
Contributions by employees (0.1) (0.9) (1.0)
Actuarial losses (26.9) 10.6 0.9 3.3 (12.1)
Benefits paid 40.2 7.4 0.5 4.2 52.3 
Curtailments and settlements – – – 3.2 3.2 
Exchange differences (16.2) – – (3.0) (19.2)
Closing defined benefit obligation (832.0) (123.5) (7.5) (67.4) (1,030.4)
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   30 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
84 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
 
UK pension  
scheme  
$million 
US pension  
schemes  
$million 
US PRMB 
 scheme  
$million 
Netherlands  
pension 
scheme  
$million 
Total  
$million 
2012  
Opening defined benefit obligation  (712.1) (124.3) (8.2) (54.9) (899.5)
Service cost  (0.8) (0.4) (0.1) (0.8) (2.1)
Interest cost  (33.2) (5.8) (0.4) (2.3) (41.7)
Contributions by employees  (0.1) – – (0.8) (0.9)
Actuarial losses  (57.4) (12.7) (0.5) (12.1) (82.7)
Benefits paid 40.2 7.0 0.7 1.5 49.4 
Exchange differences  (34.2) – – (1.0) (35.2)
Closing defined benefit obligation  (797.6) (136.2) (8.5) (70.4) (1,012.7)
 
Actuarial assumptions 
A full actuarial valuation was carried out on 30 September 2011 for the UK scheme and at 31 December 2013 for the US and Netherlands schemes.  
The principal assumptions used by the actuaries for the major schemes were as follows: 
 
UK  
per cent 
US  
per cent 
Netherlands  
per cent 
2013    
Rate of increase in salaries 4.40 3.45 2.00 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.30 N/A N/A 
Discount rate 4.40 4.45 3.75 
Inflation 3.40 2.50 2.00 
    
2012    
Rate of increase in salaries 3.90 3.45 2.00 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.80 N/A N/A 
Discount rate 4.10 3.65 3.50 
Inflation 2.90 2.50 2.00 
The assumed life expectancies on retirement are: 
 
2013 
 years 
UK  
2012 
 years 
2013 
 years 
US  
2012 
years 
2013  
years 
Netherlands  
2012 
 years 
Retiring at 31 December 2013       
Males 22 22 19 19 22 22 
Females 24 24 21 21 23 23 
Retiring in 20 years       
Males 25 25 19 19 23 23 
Females 26 26 21 21 24 24 
The main assumptions for the PRMB scheme are a discount rate of 4.45 per cent (2012: 3.65 per cent) per annum and a health care cost trend of  
6.5 per cent (2012: 6.5 per cent) per annum for claims pre age 65 reducing to 4.5 per cent per annum by 2020 (2012: 4.5 per cent). Actuarial valuations 
of retirement benefit plans in other jurisdictions have either not been updated for IAS 19 purposes or disclosed separately because of the costs involved 
and the considerably smaller scheme sizes and numbers of employees involved. 
At 31 December 2013, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations for the major schemes was as follows: 
UK: 13 years 
US: 11 years 
The Netherlands: 17 years 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   31 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 85 
Sensitivity analysis 
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below: 
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities 
Discount rate Increased/decreased by 0.5 per cent Decreased/increased by 6 per cent 
Rate of inflation Increased/decreased by 0.5 per cent Increased/decreased by 4 per cent 
Rate of salary growth Increased/decreased by 0.5 per cent Increased/decreased by 1 per cent 
Rate of mortality Increased by 1 year Increased by 4 per cent 
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement of the defined obligation following a change in a particular assumption in isolation, 
assuming no other changes in market conditions.  
24 Share based payments 
The Company has several share incentive schemes for certain directors and employees of the Group. 
A Long Term Incentive Plan was adopted in 2008 (amended in 2010) (‘2010 LTIP’) for selected senior executives including the executive directors, 
business presidents and general counsel. Awards of nil cost share options are normally made annually and the maximum value of any grant to an 
individual is 1.5 times the CEO’s basic salary. Awards vest after three years and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions over a three year 
period. Vested awards are then exercisable for up to seven years, subject to the rules of the plan.  
For other executives, shareholders approved at the 2012 AGM a new approved and unapproved executive share option scheme (‘2012 ESOS’). This 
scheme replaced the previous approved and unapproved executive share option scheme (‘2003 ESOS’) which expired in 2013. The last awards made 
under the 2003 scheme were in 2012. Under the 2003 and 2013 ESOS, options are usually granted annually to purchase shares in the Company at an 
exercise price per share based on the Company’s average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant with no 
discount applied. The number of options that are granted are based on a percentage of the participant’s basic salary. Options vest after three years  
and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions. Vested options are then exercisable for up to seven years, subject to the rules of the schemes.  
The Company also operates a 2008 UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is a save as you earn scheme (‘SAYE’), under which UK 
employees can enter into contracts to save currently up to a maximum of £250 per month with a bank or building society for a period of three or five 
years and use the proceeds from their savings accounts to purchase shares in the Company on the exercise of their options. The option price is the 
average mid-market closing share price over the five working days preceding the invitation date, discounted by 20 per cent. Options may be exercised 
typically within six months following the end of the savings period. The savings limit will increase in 2014 for new grants made after April following the 
Government’s announcement to raise the maximum savings limit to £500 per month. A similar scheme exists for US employees. Under the 2008 US 
Sharesave Scheme, US employees can enter into contracts to save up to a maximum of $2,000 per month with a bank or similarly approved institution, 
for a period of two years, and use the proceeds from their savings accounts to purchase shares in the Company on the exercise of their options.  
The option price is the average mid-market closing share price on the date of the grant, discounted by 15 per cent. Options may be exercised typically 
within three months following the end of the savings period. Options granted under the two savings based schemes are held subject to the rules of  
the schemes. 
Options were valued (as shown in the table below) using the binomial option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used 
in the calculations are as follows: 
 2013 2012 
Fair value per option (pence) 144.3 114.3 
Expected volatility (per cent) 39.3 46.4 
Risk free rate (per cent) 0.5 0.5 
Expected dividend yield (per cent) 2.0 2.3 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous 5 years. The expected life used 
in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations. The Group recognised total expenses of $3.4 million (2012: $4.0 million) related to share based payment transactions during the year. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   32 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
86 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
24 Share based payments (continued) 
At 31 December 2013 the following options/awards to subscribe for ordinary shares were outstanding: 
Year of grant 
Exercise 
 price (p) 
Exercisable 
At  
1 January 
 2013 
’000 
Granted 
’000 
Exercised 
’000 
Expired 
 ’000 
At 
31 December 
2013 
’000 From To 
UK savings related share option scheme       
2009 35.52 01/10/14 01/04/15 47 – – – 47 
2010 69.28 01/10/13 01/04/14 79 – (74)(5) – 
2011 121.66 01/10/14 01/04/15 49 – – – 49 
2011 121.66 01/10/16 01/04/17 4 – – – 4 
2012 168.06 01/10/15 01/04/16 68 – – (7) 61 
2012 168.06 01/10/17 01/04/18 5 – – – 5 
2013 206.14 01/10/16 01/04/17 – 50 – (6) 44 
2013 206.14 01/10/18 01/04/19 – 3 – – 3 
    252 53 (74)(18) 213 
US savings related share option scheme       
2011 119.34 26/08/13 26/11/13 265 – (250)(15) – 
2012 184.62 30/08/14 30/11/14 270 – (10)(35) 225 
2013 227.55 23/08/15 23/11/15 – 259 – – 259 
    535 259 (260)(50) 484 
Executive share option schemes/awards  
granted under the Long term incentive plan*     
2004 35.00 23/04/07 23/04/14 26 – (14) – 12 
2006 85.50 04/04/09 04/04/16 27 – – – 27 
2008 71.25 28/04/11 28/04/18 21 – (21)– – 
2009 29.50 25/03/12 25/03/19 260 – (247)– 13 
2010
+
 57.00 06/04/13 06/04/20 2,571 – (1,642)– 929 
2010* Nil 22/04/13 22/04/20 3,001 – (3,001)– – 
2011
+
 149.90 04/04/14 04/04/21 904 – – (6) 898 
2011* Nil 04/04/14 04/04/21 1,645 – – – 1,645 
2012
+
 194.30 27/06/15 27/06/22 773 – – (5) 768 
2012*  Nil 27/06/15 27/06/22 1,322 – – – 1,322 
2013
+
 260.70 02/04/16 02/04/23 – 674 – (4) 670 
2013* Nil 02/04/16 02/04/23 – 1,058 – – 1,058 
    10,550 1,732 (4,925)(15) 7,342 
+  These options include cash settled shadow executive options granted to a number of executives on the same basis as the standard options (with the same performance 
conditions and exercise provisions). These shadow options are included in the calculation of the total expenses recognised by the Group related to share based payments. 
The 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 options shown above include approximately 118,000, 66,000, 58,000 and 68,000 shadow options respectively. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   33 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 87 
The weighted average exercise prices of options disclosed in the previous table were as follows: 
 
2013  
Average  
exercise  
price (p) 
2012  
Average  
exercise  
price (p) 
At 1 January 48.7 38.4 
Granted 120.1 87.9 
Exercised 26.6 36.7 
Expired 163.3 103.5 
At 31 December 80.3 48.7 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year was 256 pence (2012: 201 pence). 
25 Related party transactions 
The Company is a guarantor to the UK pension scheme under which it guarantees all current and future obligations of UK subsidiaries currently 
participating in the pension scheme to make payments to the scheme, up to a specified maximum amount. The maximum amount of the guarantee  
is that which is needed (at the time the guarantee is called on) to bring the scheme’s funding level up to 105 per cent of its liabilities, calculated in 
accordance with section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004. This is also sometimes known as a Pension Protection Fund (‘PPF’) guarantee, as having  
such a guarantee in place reduces the annual PPF levy on the scheme. 
26 Movement in net cash/(borrowings)  
 
2013  
$million 
2012  
$million 
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows:   
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.4 13.5 
(Increase)/decrease in borrowings repayable within one year (3.1) 1.4 
Decrease in borrowings repayable after one year 11.8 1.9 
 10.1 16.8 
Currency translation differences – 1.0 
Increase in net cash 10.1 17.8 
Net cash at beginning of year 44.0 26.2 
Net cash at end of year 54.1 44.0 
27 Dividends 
An interim dividend of 2.57 cents per share (2012: 2.45 cents) was paid on 4 October 2013 and the Group is proposing a final dividend of 5.50 cents  
per share (2012: 5.32 cents) for the year ended 31 December 2013 and a special dividend of 5.86 cents per share (2012: 4.79 cents). The total dividend 
for the year, excluding the special dividend, is 8.07 cents per share (2012: 7.77 cents) and 13.93 cents per share (2012: 12.56 cents) including the 
special dividend. 
The amount payable for the final dividend and special dividend, based on the anticipated number of qualifying ordinary shares registered on the record 
date, is $52.4 million. 
28 Key management compensation 
 
2013 
 $million 
2012  
$million 
Salaries and short term employee benefits 3.6 4.0 
Other long term benefits 0.7 0.8 
Share based payments 1.9 2.3 
 6.2 7.1 
The key management compensation given above is for the Board and the two business presidents. Directors’ remuneration is set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 33 to 48. 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   34 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
88 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
29 Acquisitions 
On 19 February 2013 the Group purchased the trading assets of Hi-Mar Specialty Chemicals, LLC (‘Hi-Mar’), a US coatings additives company, for a 
cash consideration of $33 million. Hi-Mar was established in 1973 and is a leading supplier of defoamers to the coatings, construction and oilfield drilling 
industries, with manufacturing and technical facilities based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For the 12 months ended 31 December 2012, the acquired 
business reported, on an unaudited basis, sales of $14.5 million and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of $3.5 million.  
 
Book value 
at acquisition 
$million 
Fair value 
adjustments 
$million 
Fair value of 
assets 
acquired 
$million 
Property, plant and equipment 0.6 1.7 2.3 
Inventories 1.2 – 1.2 
Trade and other receivables 1.7 – 1.7 
Trade and other payables (0.9) – (0.9)
 2.6 1.7 4.3 
Goodwill   14.1 
Intangible – Customer lists   9.7 
Intangible – Brand   4.9 
Consideration paid, satisfied in cash   33.0 
Cash acquired   – 
Net cash outflow   33.0 
A purchase price allocation and fair value exercise was performed in order to identify the fair values of assets acquired to the Group. This resulted in the 
recognition of intangible assets, relating to both customer lists and brand, of $14.6 million and goodwill of $14.1 million, being the difference between 
the consideration paid and the fair value of separable assets acquired. The goodwill recognised on acquisition reflects the capabilities of the Hi-Mar 
personnel and the synergistic opportunities going forward, neither of which can be allocated to another identifiable intangible asset. 
Since acquisition Hi-Mar has contributed $10.5 million to the Group’s revenue and $2.1 million to the Group’s operating profit before intangible  
asset amortisation. 
Following the acquisition of Watercryl Quimica Ltda in September 2012, the provisional fair value exercise has now been completed with the assistance 
of external experts. The table below shows changes in the assessment of the fair value of assets acquired, from the provisional figures included in the 
2012 Annual report and accounts. Prior year balances have been restated to take account of the additional fair value adjustments that have been 
recognised. 
 
Provisional 
fair value of 
assets 
acquired 
$million 
Further fair 
value 
adjustments 
$million 
Fair value of 
assets 
acquired 
$million 
Property, plant and equipment 15.0 (10.4) 4.6 
Inventories 1.5 (0.2) 1.3 
Trade and other receivables 1.7 – 1.7 
Trade and other payables (0.6) 0.3 (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 – 0.4 
Corporation tax – (0.3) (0.3)
Deferred tax – (3.5) (3.5)
 18.0 (14.1) 3.9 
Goodwill 4.4 10.4 14.8 
Intangible – Customer lists 
2.0 3.7 
3.7 
Intangible – Brand 2.0 
Consideration paid, satisfied in cash 24.4 – 24.4 
Cash acquired (0.4) – (0.4)
Net cash outflow 24.0 – 24.0 
30 Contingent liabilities 
As is the case with other chemical companies, the Group occasionally receives notices of litigation relating to regulatory and legal matters. A provision  
is recognised when the Group believes it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Where it is deemed that an obligation is merely possible and that the probability of a material 
outflow is not remote, the Group would disclose a contingent liability. No contingent liability was considered to be reportable at 31 December 2013. 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   35 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Parent company statutory accounts 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 89 
The Group is required to present a separate balance sheet for the parent company, Elementis plc, which continues to adopt UK generally accepted 
accounting principles. Its accounting policies are set out in Note 1 and its balance sheet is set out below. 
ELEMENTIS PLC 
Balance Sheet 
at 31 December 2013 
 
 Note 
 2013  
£million 
2012  
 £million 
Fixed assets    
Investments  763.3 761.3 
Current assets    
Debtors  4 1.2 1.2 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    
Creditors 5 (0.5) (0.4)
Net current assets   0.7 0.8 
Total assets less current liabilities  764.0 762.1 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings  (345.1)  (307.2)
Net assets  418.9 454.9 
    
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital 7 22.9 22.7 
Share premium account 8 9.3 8.0 
Capital redemption reserve 8 83.3 83.3 
Other reserves 8 81.5 81.5 
Share option reserve 8 4.0 3.9 
Profit and loss account 8 217.9 255.5 
Equity shareholders’ funds  418.9 454.9 
The financial statements of Elementis plc on pages 89 to 93 were approved by the Board on 25 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
   
David Dutro Brian Taylorson 
Group Chief Executive Finance Director 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   36 12/03/2014   20:14 Notes to the company financial statements  
of Elementis Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 
90 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
1 Accounting policies 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing 
with items which are considered material in relation to the financial 
statements, except as noted below. 
Basis of preparation  
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with UK GAAP and under the historical cost accounting rules. Under 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the 
requirement to present its profit and loss account. As the Company’s 
voting rights are controlled within the Group headed by Elementis plc, the 
Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and 
has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned 
entities which form part of the Group (or investees of the Group qualifying 
as related parties). 
Foreign currencies  
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate 
or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and 
losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. 
Investments  
Investments in Group undertakings are included in the balance sheet at 
cost less impairment. 
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a 
liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and 
are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do 
not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial 
statements.  
Pensions and other post retirement benefits  
The Company participates in the Elementis Group defined benefit pension 
scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the 
Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying 
assets and liabilities in the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis 
and as required by FRS 17, it has treated the scheme as if it were a 
defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit 
and loss account represents the contributions payable for the year. 
Taxation  
Deferred taxation is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and 
accounting purposes that have originated but not reversed at the balance 
sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. Advance corporation 
tax recoverable by deduction from future corporation tax is carried forward 
within deferred taxation or as ACT recoverable within debtors as 
appropriate. 
Share based payments  
The fair value of share options granted to employees is recognised as an 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. Where the Company 
grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it 
recognises in its individual financial statements an increase in the cost of 
investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share based 
payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial statements, with 
the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. The fair value 
is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value  
of the options granted is measured using a binomial model, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual 
number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to 
share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company 
In accordance with FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company 
are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two 
conditions: 
a) They include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver 
cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or 
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are 
potentially unfavourable to the Company. 
b) Where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own 
equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity 
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed 
number of its own equity instruments. 
To the extent that the definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are 
classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes 
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in 
these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium 
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part 
of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments associated with 
financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds, are 
dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in 
shareholders’ funds. 
2 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
has not presented its own profit and loss account. A loss of £2.3 million 
(2012: £2.4 million loss) is dealt with in the financial statements of the 
Company.  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   37 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 91 
3 Investments 
 
Unlisted  
shares at 
cost  
£million 
Unlisted 
loans  
£million 
Capital  
contributions  
£million 
Total  
£million 
Cost at 1 January 2013  0.1 759.0 2.2 761.3 
Additions – – 2.0 2.0 
Net book value 31 December 2013 0.1 759.0 4.2 763.3 
Net book value 31 December 2012 0.1 759.0 2.2 761.3 
The investment in unlisted loans is with Elementis Holdings Limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary. The investments in unlisted shares are in 
Elementis Group BV and Elementis US Investments Limited, both wholly owned subsidiaries. Capital contributions relate to share based payment 
awards made to employees of subsidiary companies. 
The principal trading subsidiaries of Elementis plc are as follows: 
Subsidiary undertakings  Country of incorporation and operation 
Elementis Chromium LLP Chromium chemicals United Kingdom 
Elementis UK Limited trading as: 
Elementis Specialties Rheological additives, colourants, waxes, other specialty additives United Kingdom 
Elementis Chromium Inc Chromium chemicals United States of America 
American Chrome & Chemicals Inc Chromium chemicals United States of America 
Elementis Specialties Inc Rheological additives, colourants, waxes, other specialty additives United States of America 
Elementis GmbH Rheological additives, colourants, waxes, other specialty additives Germany 
Elementis Deuchem (Shanghai)  
Chemical Co Ltd Additives and resins People’s Republic of China 
Elementis Specialties (Changxing) Ltd Rheological additives, colourants, waxes, other specialty additives People’s Republic of China 
Elementis Specialties (Anji) Ltd* Organoclays People’s Republic of China 
Elementis Specialties Netherlands BV Surfactants and coatings additives The Netherlands 
Deuchem Co Ltd Additives and resins Taiwan 
Deuchem (Shanghai) Chemical Co Ltd Additives and resins People’s Republic of China 
Elementis Specialties do Brasil  
Quimica Ltda Coatings additives Brazil 
*  80 per cent owned subsidiary as at 31 December 2013 
 
Notes: 
None of the undertakings are held directly by the Company. 
Equity capital is in ordinary shares and voting rights equate to equity ownership. 
All undertakings listed above have accounting periods ending 31 December. 
Undertakings operating in the United Kingdom are incorporated in England and Wales. In the case of corporate undertakings other than in the United Kingdom their country of 
operation is also their country of incorporation. 
All undertakings listed above have been included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year. 
4 Debtors 
 
2013 
£ million 
2012 
 £million 
Group relief receivable  1.2 1.2 
 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   38 12/03/2014   20:14
. Notes to the company financial statements  
of Elementis Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
92 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
5 Creditors: amount falling due within one year 
 
2013  
£million 
2012 
 £million 
Accruals and deferred income 0.5 0.4 
6 Retirement benefit obligations 
The Company is a member of a multi-employer pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. Because the Company is unable to 
identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’, the scheme 
has been accounted for as if the scheme was a defined contribution scheme. The net deficit in the scheme at 31 December 2013 was £39.9 million 
(2012: £44.9 million). 
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out at 30 September 2011 and was updated for FRS 17 purposes to 31 December 2013 by a qualified 
actuary. The contribution for the year was £0.1 million (2012: £0.1 million). 
Details of a guarantee given by the Company in respect of current and future obligations of UK subsidiaries currently participating in the pension scheme 
are set out in Note 10 in the Company’s financial statements. 
7 Called up share capital 
 
2013  
Number  
’000 
2013  
£million 
2012  
Number 
’000 
2012 
£million 
Called up allotted and fully paid:     
Ordinary shares of 5 pence each     
At 1 January  453,572 22.7 449,950 22.5 
Issue of shares 5,259 0.2 3,622 0.2 
At 31 December 458,831 22.9 453,572 22.7 
During the year a total of 5,258,914 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £262,946 were allotted and issued for cash to various 
employees at subscription prices between 30 pence and 185 pence on the exercise of options under the Group’s share option schemes. The total 
subscription monies received by the Company for these shares was £1.5 million. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and  
one vote per share at meetings of the Company. 
8 Reserves 
 
Share  
premium 
 account 
 £million 
Capital  
redemption  
reserve 
 £million 
Other 
 reserves  
£million 
Share  
option 
reserve  
£million 
Profit  
& loss  
account  
£million 
At 1 January 2013 8.0 83.3 81.5 3.9 255.5 
Retained loss for the year – – – – (2.3)
Issue of shares 1.3 – – – – 
Share based payments – – – 2.0 – 
Transfer – – – (1.9) 1.9 
Dividend paid – – – – (37.2)
At 31 December 2013 9.3 83.3 81.5 4.0 217.9 
  
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   39 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 93 
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
 
2013  
£million 
2012  
£million 
Loss for the financial year (2.3)  (2.4)
Dividends paid (37.2)  (19.8)
Share based payments 2.0 2.2 
Ordinary shares issued 1.5 1.4 
Net decrease in shareholders’ funds (36.0)  (18.6)
Opening shareholders’ funds 454.9 473.5 
Closing shareholders’ funds 418.9 454.9 
10 Related party transactions 
The Company is a guarantor to the UK pension scheme under which it guarantees all current and future obligations of UK subsidiaries currently 
participating in the pension scheme to make payments to the scheme, up to a specified maximum amount. The maximum amount of the guarantee  
is that which is needed (at the time the guarantee is called on) to bring the scheme’s funding level up to 105 per cent of its liabilities, calculated in 
accordance with section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004. This is also sometimes known as a Pension Protection Fund (‘PPF’) guarantee, as having such  
a guarantee in place reduces the annual PPF levy on the scheme. 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   40 12/03/2014   20:14 Glossary 
94 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
 
ABI Association of British Insurers 
ACC American Chemistry Council 
ACT Advance Corporation Tax 
AGM Annual General Meeting 
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
AWC Average working capital 
Board Board of directors of Elementis plc 
CEO Chief Executive Officer 
COO Chief Operating Officer 
CO2 Carbon dioxide 
Company Elementis plc 
CR Corporate responsibility  
DB Scheme Defined benefit scheme 
DEFRA Department for Environment and Rural Affairs 
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation  
and amortisation 
EPA Environmental Protection Agency 
EPS Earnings per share 
ESOS Executive share option scheme 
ESOT Employee share ownership trust 
EU European Union 
FRC Financial Reporting Council 
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
GDP Gross domestic product 
GHG Greenhouse gases 
GJ Gigajoule 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group Elementis plc and its subsidiaries 
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs 
HSE Health, safety and environment 
IFC Inside Front Cover 
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards 
ISS Institutional Shareholder Services 
KPI Key performance indicator 
kWh Kilowatt hour 
LTA Lost time accident 
LTIP Long term incentive plan 
MNE Multinational enterprise 
NIC National Insurance Contributions 
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
P.A. Per Annum 
REACh Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction  
of Chemicals 
ROCE Return on capital employed 
RPI Retail Price Index 
SAYE Save as you earn 
SID Senior Independent Director 
TSR Total shareholder return 
UK United Kingdom 
UN United Nations 
US United States 
VOC Volatile organic compounds 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   41 12/03/2014   20:14 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Five year record 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 95 
 
2013 
  
$million 
2012 
restated** 
$million 
2011 
  
$million 
2010 
  
$million 
2009 
 
 $million 
Turnover      
Specialty Products 502.8 458.7 449.9 410.8 315.2 
Surfactants 72.2 72.5 94.3 88.1 76.3 
Chromium 201.8 225.8 216.3 198.5 172.2 
 776.8 757.0 760.5 697.4 563.7 
Operating profit before exceptional items      
Specialty Products 99.1 90.1 89.7 71.8 30.9 
Surfactants 5.6 4.8 5.4 6.1 0.1 
Chromium 55.1 62.8 56.1 35.8 13.9 
Central costs (13.2)  (13.8) (14.1) (11.4) (8.7)
 146.6 143.9 137.1 102.3 36.2 
Exceptional items (1.7) – 27.5 – (76.7)
Profit/(loss) before interest 144.9 143.9 164.6 102.3 (40.5)
Other Expenses (2.0) (2.5) – – – 
Net interest payable (8.6)  (8.0) (2.6) (6.3) (7.9)
Profit/(loss) before tax 134.3 133.4 162.0 96.0 (48.4)
Tax (27.6)  (33.1) (37.9) (21.9) (9.0)
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent 106.7 100.3 124.1 74.1 (57.4)
 
 
2013 
 
$million 
2012 
restated**  
$million 
2011 
  
$million 
2010 
  
$million 
2009 
  
$million 
Basic      
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (cents) 23.3 22.2 27.8 16.7 (12.9)
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items (cents) 23.3 22.2 21.2 15.4 4.3 
      
Diluted       
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (cents) 23.0 21.8 27.2 16.5 (12.9)
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items (cents) 23.0 21.8 20.8 15.2 4.3 
      
Dividend per ordinary share (cents) 13.93 12.56 7.0 4.9 4.5 
Interest cover (times)* 63.7 55.3 41.5 31.0 14.5 
      
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 543.9 479.2 449.2 379.7 286.3 
Net cash/(borrowings) 54.1 44.0 26.2 (79.3) (106.3)
      
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year (million) 456.9 451.8 446.5 443.5 443.3 
* ratio of operating profit before exceptional items to interest on net borrowings 
** restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   42 12/03/2014   20:14 Shareholder services 
96 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013  
Internet 
The Group operates a website which can be found at www.elementisplc.com. This site is frequently updated to provide shareholders with information 
about the Group and each of its operating divisions. In particular, the Group’s press releases and announcements can be found on the site together with 
copies of the Group’s accounts. 
Registrars 
Enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, such as the loss of a share certificate, consolidation of share certificates, amalgamation of holdings or 
dividend payments, should be made to the Company’s registrars:  
Equiniti Limited  
Aspect House 
Spencer Road  
Lancing 
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA 
Tel: 0871 384 2379 or +44 (0) 121 415 7043 
Fax: 0871 384 2100 or +44 (0) 190 383 3113 
Website: www.shareview.co.uk 
Calls to the above numbers cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m., Monday to Friday. 
In any correspondence with the registrars, please refer to Elementis plc and state clearly the registered name and address of the shareholder. Please 
notify the registrars promptly of any change of address.  
Payment of dividends 
It is in the best interests of shareholders and the Company for dividends to be paid directly into bank or building society accounts. Any shareholder who 
wishes to receive dividends in this way should contact the Company’s registrars to obtain a dividend mandate form. 
Registrars’ text phone  
For shareholders with hearing difficulties: 
Callers inside the UK telephone: 0871 384 2255 
Callers outside the UK telephone: +44 (0) 121 415 7028 
Web-based enquiry service 
Equiniti provides a range of shareholders’ services online. The portfolio service provides access to information on share balances, balance movements, 
indicative share prices and information on recent dividends and also enables address and dividend mandate details to be amended online. For further 
information and practical help on transferring shares or updating your details, please visit: www.shareview.co.uk. 
Equiniti also provides a share dealing service that enables shares to be bought or sold by UK shareholders by telephone or over the internet. For 
telephone sales please call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. and for internet sales please visit: www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. 
 
Elementis_AR_1.pdf   43 12/03/2014   20:14  9
countries
 30+
locations
 1,300+
employees
Who we are 
Elementis plc is a global specialty 
chemicals company with operations 
worldwide that serve customers in 
North and Latin America, Europe and 
Asia in a wide range of markets and 
sectors. The Company has a premium 
listing in the UK on the London Stock 
Exchange and is a member of the 
FTSE 250 and FTSE4Good Indices.
  E x e c u t i v e m a n a g e m e n t  
headquarters
 Corporate head office 
 Specialty Products
 Chromium
 Surfactants
What we do 
The Company comprises three businesses:  Specialty Products,  
Chromium and Surfactants.  Both Specialty Products and Chromium 
hold leading market positions in their chosen sectors.  Elementis 
employs over 1,300 people at more than 30 locations worldwide.
Specialty Products provides high value functional additives to the 
decorative and industrial coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling 
markets that improve the flow characteristics and performance of its 
customers’ products or production processes.
Chromium is a leading producer of chromium chemicals that make 
its customers’ products more durable.
Surfactants manufactures a wide range of surface active ingredients 
and products that are used as intermediates in the production of 
chemical compositions.
Why invest in Elementis?
• Clear strategy to grow the Specialty Products business and utilise 
a strong balance sheet to reinvest in growth and finance returns to 
shareholders (special dividend programme in place).
• Solid financial track record with well managed businesses that 
are profitable and cash generative.
• Broad differentiated product portfolio that is underpinned by 
proprietary technology, strong customer relationships and 
supported by innovation, know how and technical expertise.
• Operating in high margin, segmented markets and emerging 
economies, where products have many applications and  
diverse end users, and local market presence is supported by 
strong global infrastructure.
• Company has strong governance and risk management  
controls and maintains a high standard of business conduct,  
ethics and corporate responsibility.
At a glance
Cautionary statement:
The Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2013, as contained in this document (‘Annual Report’), contain information 
which viewers or readers might consider to be forward looking statements relating to or in respect of the financial condition, results, operations or 
businesses of Elementis plc. Any such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. There are many 
factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any such forward looking statements. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Our global footprint
Design and production:  
CarnegieOrr +44(0)207 610 6140
www.carnegieorr.com
The paper used in this Report is  
derived from sustainable sources
Corporate information 
  Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 97 
Company Secretary Auditors  
Wai Wong KPMG Audit Plc 
Registered office Joint Corporate Brokers  
10 Albemarle Street UBS Investment Bank 
London N+1 Singer 
W1S 4HH  
UK 
Registered number  
3299608  
Financial calendar 
 
25 February 2014 Preliminary announcement of final results for the year ended 31 December 2013 
24 April 2014 Annual General Meeting and First Interim Management Statement 
30 April 2014 Ex-dividend date for final and special dividends for 2013 payable on ordinary shares 
02 May 2014 Record date for final and special dividends for 2013 payable on ordinary shares 
30 May 2014 Payment of final and special dividends for 2013 on ordinary shares 
29 July 2014* Interim results announcement for the half year ending 30 June 2014 
10 September 2014* Ex-dividend date for interim dividend for 2014 payable on ordinary shares 
12 September 2014* Record date for interim dividend for 2014 payable on ordinary shares  
03 October 2014* Payment of interim dividend for 2014 on ordinary shares 
31 October 2014* Second Interim Management Statement  
* provisional date  
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting of Elementis plc will be held on 24 April 2014 at 11.00 a.m. at The Royal Institution of Great Britain, 21 Albemarle Street, 
London W1S 4BS. The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document. Details of the ordinary and special business of the Annual General 
Meeting are contained within the Notice.  
Principal offices 
 
Elementis plc 
10 Albemarle Street 
London 
W1S 4HH 
UK 
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7408 9300 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7493 2194 
Email: elementis.info@elementis.com 
Website: www.elementisplc.com 
Elementis Global 
Elementis Specialty Products 
Elementis Surfactants 
Elementis Chromium 
469 Old Trenton Road 
East Windsor 
NJ 08512 
USA 
Tel: +1 609 443 2000 
Fax: +1 609 443 2422 
Email: contactsus.web@elementis-na.com 
Website:  www.elementis.com  
  (Specialty Products and Surfactants)  
Email: chromium.usa@elementis.com 
Website: www.elementischromium.com 
  (Chromium) 
 
 
8069_Elementis_AR12_(cover)_AW_DRf3.indd   2 18/03/2014   10:25 A global specialty chemicals company
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Elementis plc
10 Albemarle Street
London W1S 4HH, UK
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7408 9300
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7493 2194
www.elementisplc.com
Elementis plc
Annual report and accounts
2013
