 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014
Connecting IT across every 
major healthcare sector 
PRIMARY
CARE
SECONDARY
CARE
COMMUNITY
PHARMACY
COMMUNITY,
CHILDREN’S AND 
MENTAL HEALTH
SPECIALIST
CARE Title
Subtitle
EMIS Group is the UK leader in connected healthcare 
software and services. Our solutions are widely used 
across every major UK healthcare setting from primary 
and community care, to high street pharmacies, 
secondary care and specialist services.
At a glance
> Page 02
Strategic report
01 Highlights of our year
02 At a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s 
introduction and business model
10 Our strategy
12 Strategy in action
14 Principal risks and uncertainties
16 Operational review
21 Financial review
24 Corporate social responsibility
Governance
28 Board of directors
30 Corporate governance
35 Report of the audit committee
39 Report of the nomination 
committee
40 Report of the remuneration 
committee
54 Directors’ report
57 Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
Financial statements
58 Independent auditor’s report
59 Group statement of 
comprehensive income
60 Group and parent company 
balance sheets
61 Group and parent company 
statements of cash flows
62 Group and parent company 
statements of changes in equity
63 Notes to the financial statements
91 Shareholder information
92 Directors and advisers
92 Five year Group financial summary
Further information and investor updates 
can be found on our website at 
www.emis-online.com
Patients
Secondary & Specialist Care
Primary & Community Care
Community Pharmacy
Interoperability
Comprehensive support Highlights of our year
Strong performance for the year with 
a focus on delivering sustained growth.
Operational highlights
• Financial performance in line with expectations 
• Product integration underway and already starting 
to be delivered to the market
• First integrated contract win in Gibraltar
• 11% organic revenue growth and positive contribution 
from acquisitions
Primary & Community Care
• Market-leading position in UK primary care maintained 
with 53.1% market share (2013: 53.0%)
• GPSoC framework agreement (Lots 1 and 2) secured 
• 4,261 EMIS Web GP practices now live (2013: 3,327)
• Momentum continues in Community, Children and Mental 
Health (CCMH): contract wins in excess of £14m, strong 
pipeline, implementations progressing well and market 
share growth from 3% to 8%
Community Pharmacy
• Maintained significant user base, with 35.7% share 
of the market (2013: 35.3%)
• Ongoing development of next generation community pharmacy 
software to address existing and “supermarket” users
• Rolling out innovative integrated products connecting GPs, 
pharmacists and patients
Secondary & Specialist Care 
• Major contract wins secured in hospitals, strong order book 
and pipeline of further opportunities, notably pan-Wales A&E
• Acquired Indigo 4, providing clinical and administrative 
messaging and order communications solutions
• Development and roll-out of upgraded diabetic retinopathy 
software in England complete
• Acquired Medical Imaging, providing diabetic retinopathy 
service provision capability and significant market share
Operational review
> Page 16
1.  Excludes release of contingent acquisition consideration, exceptional items, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles. For EPS calculations, also adjusts for the related tax and non-controlling interest impact.
2. Stated after deduction of capitalised development costs.
Financial highlights
Adjusted EPS
1
39.5p +16%
39.5p
2014
34.0p
2013
30.8p
2012
27.7p
21.8p
2011 2010
Cash generated from operations
2
£38.3m +17%
£38.3m
2014
£32.6m
2013
£27.4m
2012
£27.1m
£20.2m
2011 2010
Total revenue
£137.6m +30%
£137.6m
2014
£105.5m
2013
£86.3m
2012
£73.2m
£61.9m
2011 2010
Adjusted operating profit
1
£32.6m +25%
£32.6m
2014
£26.1m
2013
£22.8m
2012
£20.8m
2011
£18.2m
2010
Total dividend for the year
18.4p +15%
18.4p
2014
16.0p
2013
14.2p
2012
12.4p
11.2p
2011 2010
Recurring revenue
£102.7m +26%
£102.7m
2014
£81.4m
2013 2012
£61.1m
£50.8m
2011 2010
£69.4m
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 01 Helping clinicians share vital information 
to facilitate better, more efficient healthcare.
At a glance
Who we are and what we do
EMIS Group is the UK leader in connected healthcare software and services. Our solutions are 
widely used across every major UK healthcare setting from primary & community care, to high 
street pharmacies, secondary care and specialist services. We link up different healthcare sectors 
through integrated and interoperable technology that makes patient information available where it’s 
needed, when it’s needed. We help clinicians provide better, more efficient healthcare. This is how 
we support longer, healthier lives.
Our strategy
> Page 10
Primary & Community Care, under the EMIS brand, the 
UK leader in clinical IT systems for GPs and commissioners. 
EMIS Group products, including the flagship EMIS Web, 
hold over 40 million patient records and are used by 
nearly 6,000 healthcare organisations, including 
community-based teams. EMIS’ Patient website is the 
UK’s leading independent provider of patient-centric 
medical and wellbeing information and related 
transactional services. 
Community Pharmacy, under the Rx Systems brand, the 
UK’s single most used integrated community pharmacy 
and retail system. 
Secondary & Specialist Care, under the Ascribe and 
Digital Healthcare brands. Ascribe is a leading software 
provider to 81% of the UK’s NHS Acute Trusts and Boards, 
focused primarily on hospital pharmacy, A&E (holding 
over 30 million patient records), mental health, order 
communications and patient administration systems. 
Digital Healthcare is England’s leading provider of diabetic 
eye screening and other ophthalmology-related services 
and solutions. 
These markets are also supported, under the Egton 
brand, by the provision of specialist ICT infrastructure, 
software, hardware and engineering services.
EMIS Group serves the following healthcare settings:
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 02 Providing access 
anywhere, at any time.
4,261 LIVE 
PRA CTICES IN ENGLAND AND 
W ALES LIVE WITH EMIS WEB
£14M+
IN VALUE OF WINS FOR CCMH 
17M MONTHL Y
VISITORS TO PATIENT
IN DECEMBER 2014
Operational review
> Page 16
EMIS Group is the UK GP software market 
leader providing primary care clinical systems.
EMIS Web, our flagship product, uses the 
latest technologies to help GPs manage every 
aspect of providing the best possible care to 
their patients. It enables GPs to share data 
with other healthcare professionals involved 
in their patients’ care, so everyone has the 
complete picture. This leads to improved 
patient treatment times and outcomes.
Community, Children’s and Mental Health 
With EMIS Web, healthcare professionals 
working in community, children’s and mental 
health can easily access records and share 
patient data electronically.
It’s more efficient for the organisation and 
provides a better experience for the patient.
It can use automatic recall schedules to invite 
children for vaccinations or make it easier to 
create care plans across different community 
settings. EMIS mobile allows true mobile 
working online or offline at the point of care. 
Patient
Patient is the Group’s website that helps patients 
play a key part in making decisions about their 
own healthcare through high quality information, 
support and transactional services. It also supports 
health professionals in clinical decision making 
and through provision of high quality, accurate 
and up to date reference material. 
Egton
Egton specialises in supplying ICT infrastructure, 
hosting and supporting services such as automated 
arrivals, bespoke websites and healthcare and 
other public and private sector organisations.
Primary & Community Care
NUMBER ONE
IN THE MARKET, 
53% PENETRATION
0.5M+
VISITORS MONTHLY TO  
EGTON DESIGNED GP WEBSITES
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 03 Title
Subtitle
At a glance continued
Linking pharmacy to the 
wider healthcare network.
Community Pharmacy
 
36% PENETRATION, 
NUMBER TWO IN THE MARKET
EMIS Group software is used by community 
pharmacies across the UK for managing 
and dispensing patients’ medications.
ProScript is the most widely used system in the 
pharmacy software market. It efficiently manages 
the dispensing process and handles standard tasks 
such as labelling and endorsing, patient records, 
ordering and stock control.
Pharmacies using ProScript and GPs using EMIS 
Web are improving patient outcomes by working 
together to deliver “joined-up” services. Pharmacy 
Access allows pharmacies to view a summarised 
patient record and order repeat prescriptions 
direct from the GP.
This means pharmacists can view the patient 
GP record, helping to improve patient care by 
spotting any issues with medication before it 
becomes a bigger problem for the patient.
Operational review
> Page 16
153 MILLION 
PRESCRIPTIONS
WRITTEN BY ENGLISH 
GPs USING EMIS WEB ARE 
DISPENSED BY AN RX SYSTEMS
PHARMACY EACH YEAR
NEXT GENERATION
PRODUCT IN DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 04 Secondary Care and Specialist Care
Everyone involved 
will have the information 
they need at the click 
of a button.
EVERY 5 SECONDS 
A PATIENT IS TREATED 
IN  AN  A&E  DEPARTMENT
USING AN ASCRIBE SYSTEM
EMIS Group software is used by NHS Trusts 
in a wide range of secondary and specialist 
care settings. Our range of clinical systems 
offer clinicians and managers solutions to 
manage the day to day running of these 
healthcare settings, including the recording 
of essential patient data and business 
intelligence reporting.
Our systems are used to manage hospital 
pharmacy and prescribing; unscheduled 
care and electronic patient records (including 
patient administration systems), and electronic 
messaging and order communications. 
The Group’s secondary care product range 
has an international user base, with customers 
in Australasia, Malaysia and Hong Kong.
Specialist care
EMIS Group provides IT systems for specialist care 
settings, offering expert and invaluable solutions 
to niche markets with specific requirements, 
such as image management and storage for the 
ophthalmology market. The Group also provides 
screening services to patients across 12 diabetic 
eye screening programmes. 
Operational review
> Page 16
OVER 81%
OF ACUTE TRUSTS 
USE AN ASCRIBE SOLUTION
18% PENETRATION
IN A&E. NUMBER TWO IN 
THE MARKET IN ENGLAND
11 MILLION 
DIABETIC RETINOPATHY
IMAGES TAKEN IN THE YEAR
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 05 Chairman’s statement
Delivering integrated, excellent 
and innovative healthcare IT 
for patients and all those 
involved in their care. 
2014 was a strong year with a focus on strategy. The roll-out 
programme for EMIS Web for GPs in England was almost complete 
at the year end, and the expansion into Community, Children’s 
and Mental Health (CCMH) continued. Development of the 
next generation community pharmacy software progressed well 
and the significant work on Group product integration was clearly 
demonstrated by the launch and start of the roll-out of innovative 
integrated products connecting GPs, pharmacists, secondary care 
clinicians and patients. 
Following on from the acquisition of Ascribe in 2013, the addition 
of Indigo 4 on 16 July 2014 brought an extensive customer base 
in the secondary care sector. Its products, already used by over 
150 NHS Trusts, Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) and private 
organisations, extend our existing proprietary capabilities in the 
requesting, messaging, translation and delivery of electronic clinical 
and administrative data across primary & secondary care.
The acquisition of Medical Imaging (UK) Limited and MIDRSS 
Limited (together “Medical Imaging”), was completed on 
22 December 2014. Medical Imaging is the leading provider of 
services delivering diabetic eye screening and ophthalmology 
imaging to the NHS in England and has a growing presence 
assisting Ireland’s national health service, the HSE. The 
acquisition is in line with EMIS Group’s strategy of providing 
cross-organisational healthcare systems and further enhances 
its position in diabetic eye screening.
Changes to the Board
The range of experience of our Non-executive Directors continued 
to provide valuable support to the Executive Directors ensuring 
they continued to develop an ambitious strategy and that strategy 
was delivered effectively. On 9 May 2014, Kevin Boyd joined the 
Board as a Non-executive Director. As a finance director of a FTSE 
250 business, he has proved to be a valuable addition to the Board. 
On 30 January 2015, Sean Riddell stepped down from his role 
as Non-executive Director. Sean was instrumental in the growth 
and achievements of the business both as an Executive and 
Non-executive Director and the Board thanks him for his 
significant contribution, over many years.
Corporate governance
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and adding value by ensuring that strong ethical 
standards are maintained. There is a framework of effective 
internal controls and dialogue with all stakeholders is encouraged 
to gain the most value from engagement with a wide variety 
of stakeholders. Further information on corporate governance 
can be found on page 30.
Mike O’Leary, Chairman
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 06 We remain uniquely placed to 
continue to help provide faster, 
better and cheaper healthcare 
through connecting software and 
services, which in turn supports 
longer and healthier lives. 
Dividend
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 29 April 2015, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.2p per ordinary 
share payable on 1 May 2015 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 10 April 2015. The total dividend 
for the year is 18.4p.
Our brand
During 2015 we will re-brand a number of our existing businesses 
as EMIS Health. We provide integrated systems to help deliver 
better, faster patient care more efficiently and operating under 
one brand will underline that. We will also launch the new brand 
EMIS Care. Under the EMIS Care brand we will provide technical 
and administrative assistance to clinicians.
Our people
The achievements over the last year would not have been 
possible without the excellent performance of our people. The 
business has worked hard to improve cross-Group collaboration, 
to encourage communication and to develop a deeper understanding 
of strategy. We remain dedicated to supporting our employees 
by investment and creating opportunities. Their commitment 
means that we remain uniquely placed to continue to help provide 
faster, better and cheaper healthcare through connecting software 
and services, which in turn supports longer and healthier lives. 
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
18 March 2015
Corporate governance
> Page 30
EMIS Health
During 2015, we will launch a new brand: EMIS Health. 
This will bring together our businesses working in Primary & 
Community Care (EMIS), Secondary Care (Ascribe and Indigo 4), 
Community Pharmacy (Rx Systems), and Specialist Services 
(Digital Healthcare).
Behind the scenes we’ve been working hard to integrate 
them – from teams and processes, to products and services. 
By re-branding we can demonstrate how we are joining them 
up to help our customers – in every health sector – to deliver 
the NHS vision of integrated care.
EMIS Health will provide every health sector with innovative 
technologies, from market-leading clinical management 
systems to health analytics tools – combined with unrivalled 
customer support.
Egton and Patient will retain their separate brands as 
the Group’s providers of specialist ICT infrastructure, 
software, hardware and engineering services, and online 
patient-centric services respectively.
EMIS Care
In December 2014 we acquired Medical Imaging, our specialist 
provider of grading and assessment services to support diabetic 
eye screening programmes. During 2015, we will also launch EMIS 
Care. EMIS Care will be the arm of EMIS Group that provides 
technical and administrative assistance to clinicians. 
Creating the EMIS Care brand will enable the Group to leverage 
the brand equity in the EMIS name and provide a distinction 
between the two arms of the business.
The EMIS Care brand will provide expert healthcare support 
services to clinicians helping them deliver faster, better 
and cheaper healthcare for everyone.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 Chief Executive Officer’s introduction 
and business model
Establishing closer integration 
of healthcare systems.
“ The NHS’ Five-Year Forward View strategy 
document expressly states its commitment 
to fully interoperable electronic health records 
so that patients’ records are largely paperless, 
available to clinicians wherever treatment is 
provided, and can be accessed by patients. 
As custodians of well over 40 million such 
records, across every major area of healthcare, 
we remain uniquely placed to help provide 
faster, better and cheaper healthcare through 
connected software and services.”
Vision 
“ To support longer and healthier lives for everyone by providing integrated, 
excellent and innovative healthcare IT for patients and those involved in their care”
Chris Spencer, Chief Executive Officer
Reducing
emergency
admissions
Reducing
health
inequalities
Improving
management
of long-term
conditions
Optimised
medications
Supporting
patients 
and
clinicians
Access
anywhere,
at any time
Continuing
IT hardware 
and support 
Measuring 
performance 
against 
targets
Improving 
efficiency
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 08 Strategic objectives (3 years +) Operating principles
Our key differentiators: why EMIS Group?
We’re joining up healthcare. Through innovative IT, we’re 
giving more and more healthcare professionals access to the 
information they need to provide better, faster and cheaper 
patient care.
We’re unique. Our national reach includes clinical software 
used in every major healthcare setting – from GP surgeries to high 
street pharmacies, community, hospitals and specialist services. 
We’re clinically focused. We enable clinicians to provide 
safe and efficient care – helping patients live longer, healthier 
lives. Our technology is used by more clinicians in the UK than 
any other provider and we have a significant and growing 
international presence.
We care about what we do. Our clinically led design teams 
work with our customers to develop systems. That’s why we 
consistently meet the needs of individuals – whether a district 
nurse or an A&E consultant. 
We’re pioneering. We’ve won awards for our innovation and 
excellence and invested in not-for-profit research that is openly 
available to all. We’re always looking at future technologies to 
make sure we develop ground-breaking services that benefit 
patients and clinicians. 
We’ve got strength in numbers. Our clinical systems are 
used by over 10,000 healthcare organisations across the UK.
1 
   Maximise the return on our resources by joining 
them up and making them super-efficient.
Clear and universal understanding (internal/external) 
of our strategy.
Retain and grow profitable market share through:
Optimal specification development and delivery 
of integrated innovative software
Strategic business development
Alignment and integration of every division
2
  Deliver on our integrated product strategy 
to facilitate the use of clinical information.
3
  Listen to customers and citizens and deliver 
what they need.
4
  Become an integrated health and 
social care IT and services company.
5
  Deliver planned returns to customers, 
investors and other stakeholders.
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
09
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 Our strategy
Strong focus on strategic matters especially 
relating to delivery of integrated care.
2014 priorities Achievements in 2014 2015 priorities
 D i v i s io n a l re s t r u c t u re 
and integration
• Group management restructure designed and implemented 
at divisional, central and standard-setting levels. 
• Group marketing proposition developed and promoted 
joining up healthcare across all our sectors.
• Focus on promoting EMIS as “not only a GP system supplier” 
with specific success in the CCMH space. 
• Group elevator pitch developed. 
• Detailed procurement portfolio of materials developed.
• Migration of the Rx Systems engineering team into the 
Egton division. All engineering staff transferred within the year. 
• Integrate 
departments 
across EMIS 
Group.
 Deliver KPIs including 
financial performance
• Improved Group budgeting process with Group year-end 
results in line with both external expectations and internal 
budget despite variations in performance across the segments.
• Clear, consistent, and contextually relevant KPIs agreed with 
each Group Executive Board (GXB) member. Each KPI linked 
with the Group ‘Strategy On a Page’.
• All English GP estate installed or ordered EMIS Web.
• Deliver financial 
performance.
People: communication 
engagement and development
• Regular town hall briefings introduced, enabling sharing 
of business priorities and strategic plans with all employees. 
Participation encouraging and feedback positive.
• Updated, expanded and maintained succession matrix at 
GXB level to ensure succession for senior management.
• Leadership development continued in 2014 with leaders at 
all levels participating in a Leadership Essentials programme. 
• Introduced flexible approach to employee benefits including 
variable options giving more choice around pensions, 
holidays and life insurance.
• To recognise the importance of people, communication, 
engagement and development strategy, a human resources 
director appointed to the GXB specifically to lead our 
people strategy.
• People: 
communication 
engagement and 
development.
Strategic customer and 
stakeholder engagement
• GPSoC successful procurements in Lots 1 and 2. 
Lot 3 underway.
• Secured first enterprise primary care customer.
• Engaged in procurement with first “supermarket” 
pharmacy customer.
• Doubled the number of 100% EMIS CCGs/Healthboards 
(all GP practices using EMIS Web).
• Integrated sales standards board established 
with representation from each division.
• EMIS Group Pioneer (pan-healthcare) economies identified 
and engagement begun. 
• Relationships developed with five patient advocacy charities 
(eg Diabetes UK, Macmillan).
• Strategic 
customer and 
stakeholder 
engagement.
1
2
3
4
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 10 
Ethical 
and caring

Healthcare 
focused

Integrated

Patient and 
carer centred

Trusted
2014 priorities Achievements in 2014 2015 priorities
Group product integration
• Primary Care (EMIS Web) Community and Children’s and 
Secondary Care Mental Health product roadmap aligned. 
• EMIS Group products now sharing appropriate information 
with each other to enable offering of new or enhanced 
services. Examples include growth of Pharmacy Access 
into Community Pharmacy space.
• Primary Care (EMIS Web) Community and Children’s 
and Secondary Care Mental Health teams merged 
with three combined contract wins.
• Create a “one 
system brand 
and product 
strategy”.
Enterprise and 
commissioning products
• Created and began the release of solutions to meet CCG 
commissioning and enterprise/federated primary care needs.
• EMIS Health Analytics Service established to provide 
BI services and products across the Group. Work well 
advanced on solutions for GP, CCMH and Pharmacy divisions.
• Demonstrate 
improved clinical 
outcomes 
through EMIS 
Group systems.
Operational efficiencies
• See pharmacy division engineering migration (above).
• Infrastructure integration plan developed and 
implementation begun for pan Group ICT systems.
• Group procurement function sourcing of hardware 
and software effectively rolled out across the various 
businesses driving cost saving opportunities through 
economies of scale.
• Development 
of new Patient 
Online Services.
Optimise software 
specification and development
• Primary & Community Care and CCMH development process 
reviewed and agile processes implemented ensuring timely 
delivery of GPSoC contractual obligations.
• Public Health England update developed and implemented 
in whole of English diabetic retinopathy estate.
• Medicine Manager/EHR (England) available for roll-out 
to pharmacy estate.
• Community Pharmacy next generation product development 
progressing to schedule.
• Created EMIS Group network of clinicians who either design 
and/or use Group systems to promote excellence in use of 
current functionality and inform current and future service 
and product developments.
• Become a 
clinical services 
provider.
Our Culture
5
7
8
6
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 11 Strategy in action
EMIS Group delivers.
Uniquely placed to help 
provide faster, better 
and cheaper healthcare.
eHANDOVER 
SOLUTION WINS 
AWARD:
Mid Cheshire wins HSJ 
Award using Ascribe’s 
eHandover solution to 
connect information 
between departments
In Bristol, EMIS Web 
will connect 1,000 
community staff, 
providing more than 
35 healthcare services
NEW CONTRACTS 
ANNOUNCED: 
UK FIRST: 
Pharmacists can view GP patient 
records to support safer dispensing,
improving the care patients receive 
APPLE
HEALTH
PATIENT
ACCESS
EMIS
WEB
EMIS integrates with 
Apple’s HealthKit to provide 
a personal health profile
UK FIRST :
EMIS Group will connect the whole health community in Gibraltar 
for better patient care - linking patient information across primary care, 
secondary care, community and mental health services
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 12 10 AWARDS IN 2014 
EMIS Group 
recognised in
CONNECTING ACUTE 
PHARMACY AND 
HOSPITAL WARDS:
Providing better care 
to 91,000 patients 
per year at Middlemore 
Hospital, New Zealand
CONNECTING PA TIENTS 
WITH GPs:
3,322 practices are 
now enabling more 
patients than ever 
before to view 
their medical 
records online
RICHARD RED: 
How EMIS Group is making integrated care a reality.
Follow Richard on his 
healthcare journey at:
http://bit.ly/richardred
EMIS Group first to roll out 
new software to manage early 
identification and treatment 
for diabetic retinopathy
FASTER, BETTER 
PA TIENT CARE:
CONNECTING GPs 
AND A&E:
An urgent care centre in Newham is 
delivering faster care and beating 
local targets using EMIS Web
CONNECTING GROUPS 
OF PRACTICES:
34 GP practices in central 
Manchester are sharing 
records to provide 
extended opening 
hours for patients
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 13 Principal risks and uncertainties
Management of risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is appropriately 
managed across the Group. The Group maintains risk registers for 
each area of the business which are consolidated to form the Group 
risk register. This is then reviewed by the Group Executive Board. 
A summary of the consolidated register is considered by the CEO 
and then submitted to the Board at each meeting for review. 
The risks are rated as to their likelihood of occurring and potential 
impact. Each risk is assigned to an appropriate individual and all 
mitigation and action plans are recorded.
The table below shows the principal risks and uncertainties 
identified in 2014. These risks are not intended to be an extensive 
analysis of all risk that may arise in the ordinary course of business 
or otherwise.
The principal financial risks are disclosed in note 3 
to the financial statements.
Board of Directors
Ownership and monitoring
Audit Committee  
review
Chief Executive 
Officer review
Audit Committee
> Page 35
Identified risk
Link to strategic 
priorities on 
pages 10 and 11
Why is it important? How did we mitigate the risk?
Healthcare 
structure and 
procurement 
changes
1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8 The Group needs to ensure it is 
not disadvantaged by changes in 
healthcare structure and procurement 
and that its strategy closely matches 
government policy:
• by close engagement with the 
NHS at both strategic and tactical 
levels, e.g direct or via industry 
groupings such as TechUK;
• by working to ensure the 
Group is perceived not just 
as a GP supplier;
• by providing a connected 
care offering; and
• by analysing and proactively 
responding to NHS changes, 
e.g. GP federations the Five-year 
Forward View.
• GPSoC procurement successful 
in Lots 1 and 2
• Analysis of each Group market and 
competitor activity on a regular basis
• Development of a clear market and 
product strategy
• Review of selling strategy
• Brand review and re-branding plan
• Integrated sales board established 
to account manage pan-health 
economy procurement
• Identifying key areas of focus 
for customer retention
• Development of a strategic mental 
health solution
• Development of next generation 
pharmacy software
• Developing a strategy to provide 
clinical services
Financial risks
> Page 70
Corporate governance
> Page 30
Group Executive Board 
Corporate Operational Risk
Department risk registers
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 14 Identified risk
Link to strategic 
priorities on 
pages 10 and 11
Why is it important? How did we mitigate the risk?
Integration
1, 2, 5, 7 The Group must ensure products 
and acquisitions are integrated in 
order to efficiently align technology 
and workflows. This leads to the 
realisation of the best clinical safety 
and financial outcomes:
• by divisional restructure 
and integration; and
• by Group product integration.
• Board level responsibility for product 
and acquisition integration with a plan 
and regular monitoring
• Group standards and integration 
boards established to share and mandate 
best practice in, for example, development, 
support, implementation, clinical 
governance and product integration
• All integrated implementations include 
clinical safety review
• Integrated Group function teams being 
established to secure Group-wide synergies
Software 
development 
and hosting
2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 The Group needs to ensure the 
development, hosting and roll-out of 
new and existing products delivers 
customers’ expectations:
• by ensuring a strategy 
is in place to lead effective 
development prioritisation; and
• by ensuring functionality, 
service and stability is delivered.
• Divisional business plans feed 
into development strategy
• Identifying synergies across 
Group-wide resources
• Group-wide scheduling processes
• Ring-fenced teams established
• Monitoring error rates and user feedback
• Service levels set and monitored
• Hosting environment and processes reviewed
• Disaster recovery plans in place 
and reviewed
• Review of development 
and innovation processes
Recruitment 
and retention
2, 3, 6, 8 The Group needs to recruit and 
retain the right people to ensure 
timely delivery to achieve 
financial returns:
• by providing an environment 
for communication, engagement 
and development; and
• by providing an environment 
for innovation.
• Recruitment of budgeted resource 
to deliver planned projects
• Outsourcing where appropriate
• Succession plan which is regularly reviewed
• Recruitment of a Group Human 
Resources Director
• Introduction of a wider range of benefits
• Improving property and working environments, 
e.g. creation of a development hub in north 
Leeds and planned expanded new premises 
in Watford, Bolton and Cambridge in 2015
• creation of virtual innovation teams, e.g. 
for Apple HealthKit
2.  Deliver KPIs including 
financial performance
6 .  E n t er pr i s e and 
commissioning products
3 .  P e o ple : c o m m un i c a t i o n 
engagement and 
development
7 .  O p e ra t i o n a l e ffi c ie n c ie s
4.  Strategic customer and 
stakeholder engagement
8 .  O p t i m i s e s o f t w a r e 
specification and development
1 .  D i v i s i o n a l r e s t r u c t u r e 
and integration
5.  Group product integration
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 15 Chief Executive’s overview
EMIS Group has had a strong and busy year delivering results in line 
with expectations, with 30% revenue and 25% adjusted operating 
profit growth; including double digit organic growth increases 
in both key metrics. 
Key achievements for the year included establishing closer integration 
of the Group’s cross-healthcare products and services, concluding 
major contracts for GP Systems of Choice (GPSoC) Lots 1 and 2, 
largely completing the roll-out of EMIS Web for GPs in England 
while securing opportunities elsewhere including Northern Ireland. 
We have also achieved organic revenue growth and increased 
visibility across the business, delivering high levels of profitability 
and cash generation in line with our expectations, and further 
strengthening our already solid balance sheet. In September 2014 
the Group also announced its first international whole healthcare 
economy contract, to deliver a fully integrated electronic patient 
record for Gibraltar. This £11m contract, spanning primary, 
community and secondary care, clearly demonstrates the 
importance of the work being undertaken to link and 
integrate all of the Group’s products.
Ascribe and Digital Healthcare, acquired during the second half 
of 2013, made positive contributions to the Group’s results, with 
the 2014 acquisitions (Indigo 4 and Medical Imaging) expected 
to provide further opportunity for growth in Secondary & Specialist 
Care and to enhance earnings in 2015. 
Market share grew across the Group in Primary Care & Commissioning, 
CCMH, Community Pharmacy and Secondary & Specialist Care.
Group strategy
The Group, through its Primary & Community Care, Community 
Pharmacy and Secondary & Specialist Care divisions, is a major 
provider of healthcare software, information technology and related 
services in the UK. The Group holds a strong market position in 
every major area of UK healthcare IT making it uniquely placed 
to help integrate care across every major UK healthcare setting. 
The management team maintained a strong focus on its stated 
strategy throughout the year especially relating to the delivery 
of integrated care. Group strategic priorities for 2014 included:
• Strategic customer engagement. The GP Systems of Choice 
(GPSoC) framework procurement was successfully completed 
for Lots 1 and 2 and Lot 3 is well underway. The Group began 
to work with primary care customers that used new (enterprise) 
funding models. The Group continued to engage in the 
consolidation of the market place at a local level with a doubling 
of 100% EMIS Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs)/Health 
Boards where all the GP practices use EMIS Web to 38 by the 
year end. Procurement engagement began with the Group’s 
first “supermarket” pharmacy customer. EMIS Group Pioneer 
(pan-healthcare) economies were identified and engagement 
began. Relationships were developed with five patient 
advocacy charities (including Diabetes UK and Macmillan). 
• Divisional restructuring/integration. The Group management 
structure was re-designed and all management positions have 
now been filled including Duane Lawrence, the Managing 
Director of Secondary Care, Steve Butcher, the Group Director 
of Marketing, and Nicola Cliffe, the Group Human Resources 
Director. The Group’s marketing proposition was further 
developed and promoted around joining up healthcare across 
all its sectors with a special focus on promoting EMIS as “not 
only a GP system supplier”, with particular success in the 
CCMH space. The Primary Care (EMIS Web) Community and 
Children’s and the Secondary Care Mental Health teams were 
merged and secured three combined contract wins. The 
Community Pharmacy engineering team was integrated into 
the Egton (engineering) division.
• Group product integration. An integrated product roadmap 
has been developed and implementation has begun. Initial 
outcomes were demonstrated at an investor day on 3 June 2014 
showing a fully integrated suite of cross-Group products, 
which enables the Group to offer new or enhanced services: 
examples include the growth of Pharmacy Access into the 
Community Pharmacy space. The Primary Care (EMIS Web) 
Community and Children’s and the Secondary Care Mental 
Health product roadmaps were aligned. This ongoing integration 
will be further emphasised in 2015 by the use of the holistic 
EMIS Health divisional branding.
• Optimisation of software specification and development. 
Primary & Community Care ran a comprehensive training 
programme in agile development methodologies to improve 
quality and throughput. In Community Pharmacy a medicine 
manager/electronic health record viewer was completed 
and began to be rolled out in England. Development of the 
Community Pharmacy next generation product addressing 
the supermarket segment also continued to plan. In Secondary 
Care a new development director was appointed and in Specialist 
Care a Public Health England update was developed and 
implemented across the whole of the English diabetic retinopathy 
estate. Across the Group, premises were refurbished in north 
Leeds for specific use as a development delivery hub and there 
was growth in the development teams in Bolton, Sheffield, 
Glasgow and Chennai. 
• Enterprise/federated and commissioning products. 
Solutions to meet CCG and enterprise/federated primary care 
needs were created and released. A Group Health Analytics 
Service was established to provide health intelligence services 
and products with advanced solutions for the Group’s markets.
Operational review
A strong and busy year.
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 16 The Group holds a strong 
market position in every major 
area of UK healthcare IT.
Operational review
Primary & Community Care
Primary Care
The Group’s primary care market share rose slightly to 53.1% 
(5,138 GP practices) (31 December 2013: 53.0% (5,232 GP practices)). 
The primary care user base continues to be loyal and 78% of the 
Group’s English GP practices have used an EMIS system for over 
ten years.
The procurements of Lots 1 and 2 of the English GPSoC and 
of the Northern Ireland GP frameworks all reached a successful 
conclusion during 2014 and the procurement of Lot 3 GPSoC 
is progressing as expected.
EMIS Web GP
The roll-out programme for GPs in England was almost complete 
at the end of the year and all the Group’s practices in Wales are 
scheduled to have transitioned to EMIS Web by the end of 2015. 
At the period end, there were 4,261 live EMIS Web GP practices, 
an increase of 934 compared with 3,327 at 31 December 2013. 
In Northern Ireland, practices will have the option to upgrade 
to EMIS Web from the latter part of 2015. 
EMIS Web CCMH
The CCMH team was expanded, especially in relation to sales 
and implementation specialists from within and outside the Group, 
as it both won contracts and began to implement them. Additional 
functionality was released relating to cross-organisational tasks 
and appointments and data migration tools for transfers from 
Servelec RiO to EMIS Web. 
The Group’s significant pipeline for its integrated offering to 
both the south and, increasingly, the north, led to contract wins 
totalling over £14m in value including:
• Blackpool; 
• Southport and Ormskirk;
• North Somerset;
• Sirona (South Gloucestershire); 
• Bristol;
• Glasgow;
• South Tyneside;
• First Community;
• Leeds (occupational health);
• St Andrew’s (physical health); and
• Gibraltar.
By the end of the year the Group’s CCMH market share was 8% 
compared with 3% at 31 December 2013.
Primary & Community Care
Clinicians are providing better, more efficient care to patients 
with cystic fibrosis (CF) at Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust. 
Doctors at the Trust say they are responding more quickly to 
clinical problems, carrying out fewer duplicate tests and can 
capture more detailed data for reporting. They have dramatically 
reduced the time taken to send discharge summaries to GPs, 
from 34 days to less than 48 hours. 
The Leeds General Infirmary and St James’s University Hospital 
are two hubs for the Yorkshire region’s specialist adult and 
paediatric CF centres, with multidisciplinary teams made up of 
nurses, dieticians, physiotherapists, social workers, psychologists, 
admin staff and doctors. They are now able to easily record 
treatment decisions, assess clinical and prescribing trends, and 
securely share records for 620 patients a year using EMIS Web.
“Going paperless with EMIS Web has had an overwhelmingly 
positive impact on patient care,” said Dr Daniel Peckham, lead 
clinician at the adult unit. “In a survey of staff, over 90% said 
they were able to spot clinical deterioration of patients earlier 
than with a paper-based system. We are now able to provide 
more responsive care to patients. The number of completed 
annual blood tests has increased substantially from 43% to 92%, 
and we can monitor subtle changes in health outcomes using 
speedy, automated audits.”
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 17 Community Pharmacy
Ben Eaton BSc MRPharmS, manager of Dean and Smedley 
Pharmacy, Swadlincote, recently found the Constant Connect 
service from Rx Systems invaluable to the smooth running 
of the pharmacy. 
Pharmacies use an N3 connection to receive prescriptions 
electronically. If the N3 connection goes down, pharmacies are 
left unable to process prescriptions, keeping patients waiting or 
risking them going to another pharmacy. The Constant Connect 
service keeps pharmacies connected by defaulting to 3G if 
broadband is unavailable. 
Ben explains: “We made the decision to install Constant Connect 
at all five of our pharmacies that receive prescriptions electronically. 
Two weeks ago we were happily dispensing electronically without 
any issues, but when we tried to access other websites a block 
appeared on the screen telling us that we were on a 3G connection. 
In effect we had been dispensing without any disruption at all: 
our N3 line had failed but due to the seamless switch to 3G we 
hadn’t even realised. Rx Systems dialled in and sorted the N3, 
had we not had 3G we would not have been able to process any 
electronic prescriptions for at least two hours. This proved that 
Constant Connect is a must-have bit of kit.”
Operational review continued
Primary & Community Care continued
Patient
Patient.co.uk (Patient) is the Group’s online portal helping 
patients proactively manage their own care by using clinically 
reviewed health and well-being information. Patient continued to 
grow its patient and clinical user base to 17 million unique monthly 
visitors at the year end compared with 11 million at the end of 2013. 
Further patient-focused apps were launched and included mobile 
versions of the Patient medical content, the Patient Access gateway, 
tools relating to irritable bowel syndrome, sleep, weight, depression 
and migraine, a diabetes microsite and an innovative Patient 
Health Record (capable of sitting alongside the clinical record 
in EMIS Web) the latter linking to Apple’s HealthKit. 
Patient, now a UK registered trademark, also provides a gateway 
to Patient Access, the Group’s transactional healthcare services 
portal. After completion of the Lot 1 GPSoC procurement, a process 
began to select providers to deliver paid-for patient-facing services. 
That selection has now been made and the Group expects 
to begin monetisation of Patient Access in 2015. 
Hardware and engineering
Throughout the year the Group’s engineers continued to upgrade 
NHS operating systems to Windows 7. In June 2014 the Group 
completed the £1.2m purchase of the intellectual property rights 
in the automated arrivals software used in the existing primary 
care estate of circa 1,800 systems, facilitating entry into both 
the secondary & community care markets. The business also 
continued to work towards the Group mission of joining up products 
and organisations and delivering even greater efficiencies including 
migration and full integration of the Community Pharmacy 
division’s implementation engineers. 
Community Pharmacy 
The Group provides healthcare IT, software, and services 
to UK high street pharmacies. The division had another 
successful year maintaining its significant market share at 
35.7% (31 December 2013: 35.3%) and launching a suite of 
integrated products enabling direct connections between 
pharmacists, GPs and patients including direct electronic 
transmission of prescriptions along with an electronic patient 
record and an app for patients to order repeat prescriptions. 
This is aligned with the all-party supported view that for 
pharmacists to be able to help decrease pressures on traditional 
primary care services (whether A&E or GPs) they need to see 
the patient’s prescription history and their medication record. 
Rowlands Pharmacy had deployed the app to all of its 500 
English pharmacies by the end of 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 18 While ProScript, the Group’s community pharmacy software, 
remains the single most widely used dispensary management 
system in the UK, the division also started to develop its next 
generation pharmacy product, aimed at both independent 
and supermarket users, ready for piloting later in 2015.
Secondary & Specialist Care
Secondary Care
The organisational and product integrations of both Digital 
Healthcare and Ascribe continue to progress as expected. 
Both businesses performed satisfactorily and enhanced Group 
earnings in the period.
Ascribe, the Group’s secondary care business, principally 
focused on hospital pharmacy, A&E and patient administration 
systems (PAS), took longer than anticipated to secure certain 
contracts which delayed the recognition of some revenues 
into 2015. However, the strong order book and pipeline 
are encouraging for further progress in 2015. 
In 2014, as well as implementing previously secured contracts 
with major NHS hospital trusts, including Doncaster & Bassetlaw 
and South Devon, the division signed further significant contracts 
in both the UK (such as Birmingham & Solihull) and abroad 
(including Barwon, Australia). 
Furthermore, during the year, the Group was appointed preferred 
bidder and shortly afterwards was granted a formal agreement with 
NHS Wales to provide a clinical solution to manage Unscheduled 
Care across the whole of Wales. This enables the six health boards 
within NHS Wales to call off and deploy EMIS Group’s clinical 
information and management solution, Symphony, into their 
emergency department and minor injuries units. Two of the six 
health boards also signed deployment orders at the same time 
as the head agreement was signed. The maximum value 
of the framework agreement is approximately £7.6m 
over the seven year initial term of the contract. 
Indigo 4, a leading supplier of clinical and administrative messaging 
and order communications solutions to healthcare organisations, 
was acquired in July 2014 for net consideration of £3.8m. The 
business has performed well since acquisition, is expected to be 
earnings enhancing in the first full year of ownership, and furthers 
the Group’s strategy of providing comprehensively connected 
healthcare systems through a complete set of platform-neutral 
communication and data translation tools. These extend the 
Group’s pre-existing capabilities in the requesting, messaging, 
translation and delivery of electronic clinical and administrative 
data across both primary & secondary care.
Secondary & Specialist Care
Facing new targets for the distribution of GP letters, 
Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust required a solution to 
speed up the process of physically preparing and posting 
letters to GPs following appointments from A&E. Handling over 
1,000 patients per day in these departments alone, the Trust 
also faced the added pressure of a £75 “fine” per document, 
should Government targets not be met. 
The Correspondence Hub solution, provided by Ascribe, 
acts as a centralised hub where information from multiple 
systems can be collated. Using the GP’s email address and a 
set of templates, an electronic GP letter can be automatically 
produced and emailed, saving significant time and cost. 
The letters are generated and received from A&E, Inpatient 
and Outpatient systems, Electronic Discharge Summary, 
Medisoft, Endoscopy and more.
“The GP letters solution has been a fantastic piece of work that 
has quickly enabled us to meet our targets – all information can 
now be submitted within 24 hours.” 
“The solution has improved communication with GPs and 
enhanced information flow, contributing towards patient safety 
by improving the quality and speed of patient data between 
hospitals and GP surgeries.” Gordon Greaves, Associate 
Director of IT Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust.”
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 19
GOVERNANCE Operational review continued
The Group continues increasingly to engage in substantial 
procurements in Community Pharmacy as well as the re-tendering 
of former national programme contracts in CCMH and Secondary 
Care. The Group is also preparing for growth opportunities in 
Primary Care, Commissioning and Online. These will begin to 
arise in 2015 with the potential to monetise patient transactional 
services and in 2016 as the former national programme primary 
care contracts let to a competitor come to an end. Overall, the 
Group has many opportunities for growth during 2015 and beyond.
Baroness Hanham, chair of NHS Monitor, stated on 22 January 2015: 
“Integrated care has to be the future. Not only because it means 
that people can have more tailored and individual plans for their 
care, it should mean that they do not need to attend hospital for 
check-up or treatments so frequently.” With this and other recent 
public endorsements for integrated care, the Board remains 
entirely focused on delivering EMIS Group’s strategic vision 
of connected healthcare systems facilitating faster, better, 
more cost-effective care.
Chris Spencer
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2015
Secondary & Specialist Care continued
Specialist Care
Digital Healthcare, the Group’s leading provider of diabetic eye 
screening and other ophthalmology-related solutions, grew its 
already considerable market share to 82% (2013: 80%), won 
its first two hosting contracts in Kent and Wales, and completed 
the roll-out to its entire English estate of upgraded diabetic 
retinopathy software to comply with the Common Pathway 
requirements of Public Health England. 
On 22 December 2014 the Group acquired Medical Imaging 
(UK) Limited and MIDRSS Limited (Medical Imaging), together 
a leading provider of services delivering diabetic eye screening 
and ophthalmology imaging to the NHS in England and with 
a growing presence assisting Ireland’s national health service. 
The acquisition furthers the strategic opportunity that the Group 
identified when acquiring Digital Healthcare in the provision of a 
full end-to-end managed diabetic retinopathy screening service. 
The initial purchase consideration, net of cash acquired, was £6.5m. 
Over 90% of its revenues are of a recurring nature. It has 63% 
of the outsourced English market (14% of the total market), 
and provides screening services to over 500,000 patients 
across twelve diabetic eye screening programmes. It is also 
expected to be earnings enhancing in its first full year.
Summary and outlook
EMIS Group continues to trade well and in line with Board 
expectations. There is ongoing, all-party, acceptance that integrated 
care is a key part of the solution to the social, demographic and 
financial challenges of the NHS. This, supported further by strong 
revenue visibility across all parts of the expanded Group and 
a robust order book and contract pipeline, gives the Board 
considerable confidence in further sustained growth.
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 20 Financial review
Strong performance for the year.
In the year ended 31 December 2014 the Group maintained 
its track record of double-digit organic growth in revenue 
and operating profit, complemented by positive contributions 
from acquisitions in Secondary & Specialist Care. 
Adjusted operating profit for the year as set out on page 22, 
was £32.6m (2013: £26.1m) with reported operating profit 
at £29.1m (2013: £24.9m).
Revenue
Group revenue increased by 30% to £137.6m (2013: £105.5m), 
including revenue from acquisitions completed during the year 
of £1.6m, and revenue from the 2013 acquisitions in Secondary 
& Specialist Care of £28.0m (2013: £8.5m).
The 11% organic growth in the year was principally due to 
a strong performance in the Primary & Community Care business, 
driven by the increased penetration of the EMIS Web product in 
England and Wales, together with development of newer revenue 
streams such as CCMH.
Performance in the Community Pharmacy business was again 
robust, with continued gains in the estate and further cross-selling 
of additional services delivered alongside significant investment 
in software development.
The Secondary & Specialist Care segment includes the 
post-acquisition results of the Indigo 4 business from July 2014, 
and full year contributions from Digital Healthcare and Ascribe, 
both acquired in the second half of 2013. In 2015 the segment 
will also include Medical Imaging, the results of which are not 
material to the year under review as the business was only 
acquired in December 2014. The timing of revenues in Ascribe, 
in particular, is less predictable than for other areas of the Group 
and, as a result of the later than anticipated securing of certain 
contracts, the recognition of some revenues was delayed into 
2015. The performance of the business overall has nonetheless 
been in line with expectations, with a strong order book and 
pipeline providing good prospects for further progress in 2015.
Revenue mix 
Group recurring revenue, principally licences, maintenance 
and software support, hosting and other support services, was 
£102.7m (2013: £81.4m), 75% of total revenue. The high level of 
recurring revenue and strong order book at the start of 2015 
provide a strong platform for the business to continue to invest 
with confidence in developing future products and services. 
Peter Southby, Chief Financial Officer
Revenue
Secondary & 
specialist care
22%
Community 
pharmacy
13%
Primary care & 
community care
65%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Financial review continued
2014 2013
Primary & Secondary Primary & Secondary
Community Community & Specialist Community Community & Specialist
Care Pharmacy Care Total Care Pharmacy Care Total
Selected financial extracts (rounded) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 89.7 18.4 29.5 137.6 80.0 17.0 8.5 105.5 
Adjusted segmental operating profit 26.4 3.9 3.4 33.7 22.2 3.9 0.8 26.9
Group expenses (1.1) (0.8)
Adjusted operating profit
1
32.6 26.1
Adjusted operating margin 29.5% 21.0% 11.6% 23.7% 27.7% 22.8% 9.7% 24.7%
Development costs capitalised 4.0 0.8 1.8 6.6 5.3 — 0.8 6.1
Amortisation of development costs (4.3) — (0.4) (4.7) (1.8) — (0.1) (1.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (1.1) (0.7) (4.4) (6.2) (2.1) (0.9) (1.2) (4.2)
1.  Excludes release of contingent acquisition consideration, exceptional items, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets.
Revenue mix continued
Key drivers of revenue growth within the Group included 
the following:
• licences, which increased to £43.8m (2013: £40.0m), due 
principally to growth in Primary Care & Community and 
to a full period benefit from the 2013 Secondary & Specialist 
Care acquisitions;
• maintenance and software support, driven significantly higher 
to £33.4m (2013: £17.7m) by incremental revenues from 
acquisitions and by a higher allocation to this revenue stream 
under the new GPSoC contract in effect from 1 April 2014;
• hosting, which remained broadly steady at £14.0m (2013: £14.3m), 
as a result of the further market penetration of the EMIS Web 
product, offset by the lower allocation to this revenue stream 
under the new GPSoC contract;
• training, consultancy and implementation, which increased 
to £16.9m (2013: £12.1m), with new revenues in Secondary 
& Specialist Care exceeding the reduction in EMIS Web 
roll-out related revenue in Primary Care;
• an increase in hardware revenues to £7.9m (2013: £6.9m), 
with growth in the provision of hardware by Egton to the 
Group’s customers; and
• other support services, where new revenues from the 
acquisitions and a significant increase in project engineering 
activity resulted in total revenues of £21.6m (2013: £14.5m).
Profitability
Adjusted operating profit increased by 25% to £32.6m (2013: £26.1m), 
including £0.4m from acquisitions completed in the year and 
£3.1m from the 2013 acquisitions in Secondary & Specialist Care 
(2013: £0.8m). The Primary & Community Care business was the 
key driver behind the 16% organic profit growth in the year, 
principally due to the continued successful roll-out and further 
penetration of the hosted EMIS Web GP product and 
to development of new revenue streams. 
The organic operating margin improved to 27.0% (2013: 26.0%) 
with the increase in staff and other costs more than outweighed by 
the revenue growth. The overall Group adjusted operating margin 
reduced from 24.7% to 23.7% with the mix impact of the lower 
margin acquired businesses in Secondary & Specialist Care.
Group staff costs increased with staff numbers at the year end 
increasing to 1,841 (2013: 1,574), including 221 from businesses 
acquired in the year. The average headcount increased to 1,611 
(2013: 1,356).
In 2013, the Group provided for the full potential contingent 
consideration of £4.0m relating to the Ascribe acquisition. This 
contingent consideration was finalised during the year at £2.3m 
and paid in early 2015, with the release of the excess provision 
of £1.7m split between the statement of comprehensive income 
and a reduction in goodwill on the balance sheet. After accounting 
for the resulting £0.9m credit to comprehensive income, the 
capitalisation and amortisation of development costs, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and for £1.1m of exceptional transaction 
costs in the prior year, operating profit was £29.1m (2013: £24.9m), 
an increase of 17%.
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 22 Taxation
The tax charge for the year of £5.7m included a credit relating 
to prior years of £0.2m. The current year tax charge of £5.9m 
represents an effective rate of 21.5% on profit before tax and the 
(non-taxable) contingent consideration release. The tax charge 
has increased by £1.0m compared to 2013, the prior year charge 
having been lower because of a £1.0m reduction in the provision 
for deferred tax arising from the confirmation of a lower future 
rate of corporation tax.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS increased by 16% to 39.5p and 
39.4p respectively (2013: 34.0p for both measures). The statutory 
basic and diluted EPS were 35.3p and 35.2p respectively 
(2013: 32.6p for both measures).
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 29 April 2015, the Board proposes an increase in the final dividend 
to 9.2p (2013: 8.0p) per ordinary share, payable on 1 May 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 April 2015. 
This would make a total dividend of 18.4p (2013: 16.0p) per ordinary 
share for 2014. This is 15% higher than in the prior year, reflecting 
the Board’s commitment to increasing the dividend and its 
confidence in the Group’s future prospects.
Cash flow and net debt
The principal movements in net debt were as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Cash from operations
Cash generated from operations 44.8 38.7
Less: internal development costs capitalised (6.5) (6.1)
Net cash generated from operations 38.3 32.6
Business combinations (10.3) (57.5)
Placing proceeds — 26.3
Net capital expenditure (8.3) (8.7)
Transactions in own shares (1.5) 0.6
Tax (5.2) (5.1)
Dividends (10.8) (9.1)
Other (0.5) (0.3)
(36.6) (53.8)
Change in net debt in the year 1.7 (21.2)
Net debt at end of year (11.8) (13.5)
Net cash generated from operations was 17% higher than 
the previous year at £38.3m (2013: £32.6m), the increase 
follows the growth in the business, partly offset by a £2.7m 
net outflow in working capital, reflecting the timing of Research 
and Development tax credits and contract receipts. The Group 
typically has a seasonal cash flow profile, with stronger inflows 
in the first half reflecting the timing of annual licence renewals.
The Group completed two acquisitions in the year (Indigo 4 
and Medical Imaging) for net cash consideration paid in 2014 of 
£10.3m. Further amounts of up to £3.0m may become payable 
in 2015 and 2016 in respect of the Medical Imaging acquisition, 
and these have been fully provided for. As noted above, £2.3m 
of contingent consideration in respect of the 2013 Ascribe 
acquisition has been paid in early 2015.
Net capital expenditure excluding capitalised development costs 
reduced to £8.3m (2013: £8.7m), comprised primarily of investment 
in computer equipment (including hosting assets), refurbishment 
costs, motor vehicles and the purchase of the software used in 
the Group’s GP arrivals screens.
The Group’s Employee Benefit Trust acquired £2.0m of shares 
during the year and received £0.5m (2013: £0.6m) for shares 
transferred in connection with the Group’s share schemes. After 
tax and dividends, the total net cash inflow of £1.7m resulted in a 
year-end net debt position of £11.8m (2013: £13.5m), comprised 
of cash of £6.9m and bank debt of £18.8m. At 31 December 2014, 
the Group had available bank facilities of £26.0m committed 
until 2017.
Peter Southby
Chief Financial Officer 
18 March 2015
Revenue analysis
Non-recurring
25%
Recurring
75%
Licences
32%
Maintenance 
& support
24%
Hosting
10%
Other 
support 
services
16%
Training/
consultancy/
implementation
12%
Hardware
6%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 23 Corporate social responsibility
Supporting our people 
and their communities.
Summary
•  Introduction of Company 
pension scheme
•  Over 1,100 online health and safety 
training sessions completed
•  Work commenced on reduction 
of carbon footprint
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 24 Employees
Training
All employees are encouraged to take part in training sessions 
to aid their personal development. Throughout 2014, our leadership 
essentials programme continued with a further 41 managers 
from across the Group receiving training. The core skills taught 
as part of the course are helping to increase communication, 
performance management and encourage coaching and feedback. 
Over 160 managers have now undertaken this programme.
Management training courses were also run for managers and 
team leaders in selected departments throughout the period 
covering disciplinary, grievance and appeal hearings, sickness 
management, capability procedure, probationary periods, 
immigration and references checks. In addition to in-house 
training, employees are encouraged to undertake external technical 
and project management courses where appropriate. 
Egton runs an apprenticeship scheme which encourages learning 
in the working environment while continuing with relevant 
qualifications. Since 2012, Egton has had twelve apprentices, 
a number of whom have gained their qualifications in either 
Level 3 advanced apprenticeship in IT and hardware or Level 2 
intermediate apprenticeship in business administration. Several 
have successfully secured full time employment with Egton. We 
currently have five apprentices studying for their qualifications 
and hope to recruit a further four in 2015. All of our apprentices 
are treated and valued as key members of the workplace. 
Work has commenced on reviewing how apprentices could add 
value across other areas of the Group. This has allowed us to build 
a business relationship with a number of local schools and also 
involves attending careers fairs, mock interviews and assisting 
where possible with the ICT programme within the school.
Pension scheme
With effect from 1 January 2014, all eligible employees within 
EMIS were automatically enrolled into our pension scheme. 
A total of 1,117 employees were enrolled in the first month with 
the contribution rates offered higher than the minimum requirements. 
Employees have the opportunity to increase their contributions 
from entry into the scheme and the Company will automatically 
increase minimum contribution rates each year to ensure all 
legislative requirements are met. Only 8% of employees have 
opted out of the pension scheme. Rx staff were auto-enrolled in 
July 2014 with those already in the existing Rx pension scheme 
transferring into the EMIS Group scheme in January 2015. Work 
has commenced on auto-enrolment across the rest of the Group.
All EMIS employees were invited to attend pension presentations 
to help increase awareness and knowledge of the Government’s 
auto-enrolment legislation and to aid employees’ understanding 
of what the pension changes would mean to them. A communications 
programme and pensions portal were also rolled out. 
Staff benefits
We offer discounted gym membership, travel cards and a range 
of other benefits and continue to be committed to offering employees 
flexible working hours in a comfortable working environment. 
In 2014 we increased our benefits package to include a cycle 
to work scheme, the buying and selling of holiday, shopping vouchers, 
Bupa Healthcare and buying IT equipment at discounted rates. 
All employees are offered life insurance. In October 2014, the 
benefits portal was opened up to Rx employees and plans are 
in place to extend these benefits across the Group.
Building on our corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) framework, we continue 
to be committed to a comprehensive CSR 
policy, covering the key areas of:
Employees
Community
Environment
Health and safety
Ethical business practices
1, 117 EMPL O YEES WERE 
ENROLLED INTO THE 
PENSION SCHEME IN 
THE FIRST MONTH
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 25 Corporate social responsibility continued
Nicola Cliffe – Human Resources Director
To recognise the importance of people, communication, 
engagement and development strategy, a Human 
Resources Director was appointed to the Group Executive 
Board specifically to lead our people strategy.
Employees continued
Share incentive scheme
The Share Incentive Plan continues to be offered to all employees 
with over twelve months’ service. In total 826 employees from 
across the Group now participate.
Employee diversity
Male Female
EMIS Group Board 100% —
Senior management 84% 16%
Other employees 63% 37%
Community
Community engagement continues to be important across the 
Group. We encourage staff to get involved with local and national 
charities and we undertook a wide range of activities during 
the year.
Some of these were:
• Tour de Yorkshire – Staff from Ascribe and EMIS cycled part 
of the Tour de France route raising money for Alzheimer’s.
• Total Warrior – Egton staff challenged themselves to a gruelling 
course over 30 punishing obstacles for Weston Park Hospital 
Cancer Charity.
• Shoebox Appeal – 100 boxes were made up by staff 
to distribute to children in need.
• National Charity Days - Money was raised for the MacMillian 
Coffee Morning, Children in Need and staff wore a hat 
for Brain Tumour research.
We continue to work successfully with Business in the Community 
(BITC), participating in its Give and Gain day – the UK’s only 
national day of employee volunteering.
This year our largest number of volunteers yet from three of our 
businesses went out to improve and renovate local parks and 
play areas. 
During the year we established a relationship with a local school 
and cleared land to build a forest school to provide a safe outside 
learning environment. Volunteers also went into the school under 
the “Right to Read” scheme and we intend to develop this 
relationship in the coming year.
We continue to have a relationship with Young Enterprise, which 
culminated in EMIS presenting the prize for best entrepreneur 
in the region and this has generated interest in coming to us 
for work experience.
We also work with the local community sponsoring the community 
fun day and local school football and other sports teams.
Environment
We continue to be committed to the reduction of waste 
and energy consumption across the Group. 
During the year a significant amount of work was undertaken 
across the Group to achieve ISO 14001 Environmental Management 
accreditation. The key environmental impacts identified were 
utility usage, waste and air conditioning usage. All Group companies 
were assessed and the standard was awarded in January 2015. 
A three-year plan will be developed to ensure continued compliance 
and improvement starting with benchmarking and setting KPIs 
in 2015 alongside the integration of recent acquisitions. To minimise 
our carbon emissions we have started to measure our carbon 
footprint, enabling us to put processes in place to further reduce 
our impact on the environment across the Group. 
We shall continue to invest in further ways to reduce our impact 
by the consolidation of office space, the use of solar panels, LED 
lighting and the use of passive infrared motion detection 
sensors to automatically switch off lights.
Waste recycling continues to be a priority, with over 14 tonnes 
of cardboard being disposed of in 2014 in an environmentally 
responsible fashion. Recycling paper waste saved the equivalent 
of 176 trees. We also disposed of 85 tonnes of IT waste, all of 
which was recycled by our service providers who are ISO 14001 
accredited. The increase in the quantity recycled is as a result 
of the offer of recycling services for customers.
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 26 We continue to promote a purchasing policy that gives preference 
to those products and services that cause minimal harm to 
the environment.
Carbon reduction
To support our work to reduce carbon emissions, we continue to 
choose eco-friendly fleet cars. During the year we reviewed the 
way we manage and provide cars for our employees and as a result 
a new fleet provider has been selected. This will reduce costs for 
fleet provision and further reduce emissions going forward. Our 
current average emission rate is defined as low and well below 
the target of 130g/km by 2015 set by the European Commission.
We continued to work with the West Yorkshire Travel Plan 
Network, helping to minimise our contribution to business travel 
throughout the local area. This partnership continued throughout 
2014 supported by the introduction of the cycle to work scheme. 
42 employees have purchased a bike through the scheme.
Video conferencing facilities are being installed throughout 
the Group and all employees are encouraged to use the facility 
wherever possible to reduce the need for business travel.
Health and safety
Reporting
The EMIS Group plc Board receives a report reviewing health 
and safety activity twice a year. Each business in the Group has 
an individual responsible for day-to-day health and safety activities 
and audits will be undertaken across all sites in 2015. Accident 
rates were reduced further in 2014. There was one RIDDOR report 
submitted to the Health and Safety Executive (2013: two). 
Training
We are committed to the promotion of a positive safety culture 
and have well established systems and policies in place to support 
this. Mandatory health and safety training was provided to all 
Group employees. Over 1,100 online training courses were 
completed over the course of the year.
Fleet
We continue to work with our insurers to improve the standard 
of driving and reduce the number of minor fleet accidents. 
During the year selected managers were trained in undertaking 
post-accident reviews and drivers were identified to undertake 
advanced classroom training and in-car training.
Ethical business practices
Our policies detail the standards expected throughout the Group, 
including free and fair competition, the prohibition of bribery, 
honest and fair dealing with suppliers, and ensuring that the 
welfare of workers and employment conditions within the supply 
chain meet or exceed internationally recognised standards.
We have a statement of ethics and whistleblowing policy in place 
to ensure ethical business practice across the Group, with all 
employees completing a training session on the Bribery Act 
as part of their induction programme.
85 TONNES
OF IT WASTE 
RECYCLED
Cycle to work scheme introduced.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 27 Board of directors
Comprehensive skills 
and experience.
Chris has nearly 35 years of experience 
of general management and leadership, 
software (specification, design, 
development, project management, 
implementation, marketing and sales) 
within the healthcare, legal and 
educational sectors both as a founder 
of his own companies and a senior 
manager in established companies.
His roles at EMIS since joining in 1999 
include Commercial Development 
Director, Group Legal Counsel, Chief 
Administrative Officer and interim CEO.
Mike has over 20 years’ experience at 
main board level in a public company 
environment, both FTSE 100 and 
FTSE 250. He has broad experience of 
running global operations, and a strong 
background in the IT industry as well 
as intimate association with the UK and 
international healthcare sectors. Mike has 
managed a healthcare division in the US 
which supplied software and services to 
over 70,000 primary care physicians. He 
also has experience of selling PAS and 
pathology departmental systems.
Peter has 20 years of experience in 
finance. He has led numerous corporate 
transactions including fundraising 
and acquisitions. His experience has 
given him an in-depth knowledge 
of strategy across multiple industry 
sectors with a particular focus on 
support services. Since 1 April 2014 
Peter has also taken lead responsibility 
for all Group support functions.
Mike O’Leary Name Chris Spencer Peter Southby
Current position
Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
Appointed
March 2011 July 2013 October 2012 
Board committees
Audit; Nomination (Chairman); 
Remuneration
None None
A
 
R
 
N
Experience
External appointments
Memberships
Non-executive director, 
Headlam Group plc
Non-executive director,
Epwin Group plc
Non-executive director,
Ensco Limited
None
Law Society of England & Wales
Society for Computers & Law
Chartered Management Institute (Fellow)
None
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England & Wales (Fellow)
Previous relevant 
appointments
Chairman of Digital Healthcare Ltd
Chief executive of Marlborough 
Stirling plc 
Chief executive of Huon Corporation
Executive director of Misys plc
General manager and head of IT 
at Markgraaf Patents Ltd
Founder shareholder and director 
of software house Solicitec Ltd 
Managing partner at Emsley 
Collins (Solicitors)
Financial director at ENER-G plc
Finance director at Augean plc
Senior financial positions 
at White Young Green plc 
and Leeds United plc
Senior audit manager 
at Arthur Andersen
 
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 28 Committee membership
A Audit Committee
R Remuneration Committee
N Nomination Committee
 Chairman of Committee
Robin brings many years’ experience 
as a plc director. From his previous 
appointments, he gained experience 
on financial reporting, financing, 
transactions and risk management. 
The Board believes Robin’s skills, 
experience and knowledge makes him 
a well-qualified Senior Non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Andy’s extensive knowledge of the 
NHS and experience in shaping health 
policy adds invaluable expertise 
to the Board discussions. He is an 
advocate for change which benefits 
patients. The Board believes Andy 
brings an independent view and is 
well suited to the Chairmanship of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Kevin Boyd
Kevin brings FTSE 250 financial expertise 
and software systems knowledge to 
the Board. With Kevin’s experience 
of running complex businesses and 
corporate transactions, the Board 
considers his financial and investor 
relations experience a valuable 
addition to the Board.
Senior Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
March 2010 February 2013 May 2014
Audit (Chairman); Nomination; 
Remuneration
Audit; Nomination; Remuneration 
(Chairman)
Audit; Nomination; Remuneration
Robin Taylor
A
 
R
 
N
Andy McKeon
A
 
R
 
N A
 
R
 
N
Non-executive director of Fusionex 
International plc
Non-executive director of Phoenix 
IT Group plc 
Non-executive director of FDM Group plc
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland
Senior policy fellow at the Nuffield Trust
Non-executive director at the 
National Institute of Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE)
Adjunct professor in the Centre of Health 
Policy in the Institute of Global Health 
Innovation at Imperial College London
Group finance director of 
Oxford Instruments plc
London Stock Exchange Primary 
Markets Group
Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales (Fellow)
Institution of Engineering 
and Technology (Fellow)
Chief financial officer of Intec 
Telecom Systems plc
Chief financial officer of ITNET plc
Chief financial officer of JBA 
Holdings plc
Variety of financial and general 
management roles in Europe 
and North America
Interim chief executive, Nuffield Trust
Departmental board member at the 
Department of Health (Director General 
responsible for Policy & Planning)
Head of primary care, Department 
of Health
Deputy chief executive, Barts 
and the London NHS Trust
Managing director, Health, 
Audit Commission
Group finance director at Radstone 
Technology plc
Finance director at Siroyan Ltd
Senior financial positions at TI Group 
(now Smiths Group plc)
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 29 Corporate governance
EMIS Group plc (“the Company” or “the parent company”) and 
its subsidiaries (together “the Group”) are committed to high 
standards of corporate governance and the Board acknowledges 
the importance of the principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council 
in June 2010 and in September 2012 (“the Code”).
Although the Code is not mandatory for companies admitted 
to AIM, the Company continues to establish a framework by 
adopting and implementing policies and procedures designed 
to comply with the Code as far as reasonably practicable and 
appropriate for a company of this size and complexity. 
The report below sets out how the principles in the Code 
have been applied during the year under review.
Board composition
At the start of the year the Board of EMIS Group (“the Board”) 
consisted of Michael (Mike) O’Leary, Non-executive Chairman; 
Christopher (Chris) Spencer, Chief Executive; Peter Southby, 
Chief Financial Officer; Robin Taylor, Senior Non-executive 
Director; Sean Riddell, Non-executive Director and Andrew 
McKeon, Non-executive Director.
Sean Riddell had previously served as Chief Executive until 
4 February 2013 and was therefore not considered independent 
on appointment.
Andrew McKeon, Mike O’Leary and Robin Taylor were considered 
by the Board to be independent on their appointment.
Kevin Boyd was appointed on 9 May 2014. On appointment 
he met the Code requirements for independence.
Appointments of Non-executive Directors are for specific terms 
and subject to statutory provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Following review during the year the Board considers the current 
balance of skills and experience to be appropriate for the business. 
All Directors are subject to election or re-election by the shareholders 
at each annual general meeting. The Nomination Committee 
considers that the individuals subject for election or re-election 
continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The process for the appointment of new Directors is rigorous 
and transparent and further information is contained in the 
Report of the Nomination Committee on page 39.
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for delivering shareholder 
value by developing the overall strategy and supporting the 
development of the direction of the Group. It has a schedule 
of matters reserved to it including, but not limited to:
• strategy and long-term objectives;
• financial statements, dividend payments and accounting 
policies and practices;
• approval of the Group budget;
• measuring performance of KPIs, both financial and non-financial;
• capital structure; 
• internal controls and risk management;
• acquisitions and disposals;
• major capital expenditure; 
• legal (including major contracts), health and safety 
and insurance issues; 
• Board structure and the appointment of advisers.
In some areas responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board 
within clearly defined terms of reference. The terms of reference 
for the Board can be found at www.emis-online.com/investors. 
The Board undertakes a formal strategic review once a year. 
This two-day meeting reviews progress and seeks to develop 
the future strategic direction of the Group. It is attended by all 
Board members (on the first day) and the members of the 
Group Executive Committee which includes the Group divisional 
managing directors, the Group human resources director and 
the Group marketing director. The forum considers the economic 
environment in which the Group operates, reviews the current 
business model and market opportunities and sets the key 
strategic priorities for the three year and longer term strategy 
to enhance competitive advantage and shareholder value. 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and 
defined in writing. This provides a clear division of responsibilities 
between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility of 
running the business. No Executive Director holds any non-executive 
role in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
— Chairman – Non-executive
— Executive
— Non-executive
— Company Secretary
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 30 Board meetings
Comprehensive Board packs are provided which are distributed 
in sufficient time to enable their review and consideration in 
advance of the meeting. At each meeting, the Board discusses 
and reviews strategy, the financial results and KPIs. Management 
accounts and commentary are distributed on a monthly basis 
and the risk register is reviewed at each meeting. The Chief 
Executive presents a comprehensive review of operational 
matters across the Group. Investor relations, the outcome of 
Board committees and governance matters are also considered. 
There is a topical calendar for the Board and divisional managing 
directors and key Group functional directors are regularly invited 
to attend and present an update on their areas of the business. 
This is key in providing further detail to support key strategic 
decisions. Board meetings are also held at the operating 
companies to meet the senior management and develop a 
detailed understanding of the operations. In addition the Board 
meets as required to consider single issues such as acquisitions 
which are supported by a paper circulated in advance analysing 
all relevant aspects of the topic under discussion. 
Additional information that demonstrates the skills, experience 
and knowledge of the Directors is shown in the biographies 
of the Directors.
Biographies of the Directors
> Pages 28 to 29
Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership 
and effectiveness of the Board. He:
• chairs the Board, the Nomination Committee 
and the AGM; 
• provides challenge to the Executive Directors 
and works closely with the Chief Executive Officer 
on key strategic decisions;
• maintains a dialogue with major shareholders 
on governance and other strategic matters;
• sets the Board agenda and ensures all Directors 
have the opportunity to maximise their contribution 
to the Board by encouraging open debate 
and constructive challenge; and 
• undertakes the annual evaluation of the Board.
On his appointment, Mike O’Leary met the Code requirements 
for independence. There have been no significant changes 
to his other commitments during the year which have any 
impact on his ability to perform his duties for the Company. 
The Chief Executive
The Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation 
of the strategic and financial objectives of the Group through 
the day-to-day management of the Group’s business, within 
defined authority limits. To assist in this, the Chief Executive 
has created a Group Executive Board (GXB) which consists 
of the Group Divisional Managing Directors, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group 
Marketing Director, the Chief Medical Officer and the Chief 
Technology Officer. The GXB meets once a month with a focus 
on cross Group integration and operational performance.
The Chief Executive:
• develops the Group strategy and leads the annual 
strategic forum;
• with the Chief Financial Officer, approves 
the divisional budgets;
• chairs the Group Executive Board (GXB) and leads 
the senior management team;
• monitors the performance of the senior managers; 
• monitors the Group’s key risks; and
• with the Chief Financial Officer, maintains close contact 
with government, shareholders and major customers. 
Non-executive Directors
• Non-executive Directors provide independent 
and constructive challenge to the Executive team.
• The Non-executive Directors also play a key role in 
developing proposals on strategy. They participate 
in the annual strategy forum.
• They also provide a wide range of experience and 
independence. This aids the Board in developing a 
broader understanding and in evaluating the implications, 
risks and consequences of decisions. The Board believes 
there are no current or past matters which are likely 
to affect their independent judgement. The Senior 
Non-executive Director is available for shareholders to 
consult and the Chairman and Senior Non-executive 
Director met without the Executives during the year. 
• The Non-executive Directors meet without the 
Chairman as deemed appropriate on other occasions. 
The Non-executive Directors maintain a dialogue 
in-between Board meetings.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 31 Board meetings continued
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied 
with. The Company Secretary supports the Board committees 
and assists in the evaluation of the Board. The Directors all have 
access to the Group’s key advisers. There is a procedure for the 
Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense, if required in the performance of their duties, and 
appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action 
against the Directors. The Company has adopted and maintained 
a share dealing code for Directors and senior employees.
The number of Board and committee meetings attended by each 
of the Directors during the year is shown on page 34. On the few 
occasions a Director was unable to attend, the Chairman received 
comments in advance of the meeting and the individual received 
a briefing on the issues discussed following the meeting.
Board effectiveness
The Board has extensive operational experience and Chris Spencer, 
Mike O’Leary and Andy McKeon have detailed knowledge of the 
healthcare sector. An internal assessment of the performance of the 
Board and its individual Directors was conducted by the Chairman 
through individual meetings with each member of the Board.
All the members of the Board agreed that appropriate processes 
were in place for setting the strategic direction of the Company, 
monitoring its performance against plan and ensuring that risks 
and governance were properly addressed. The committees of 
the Board were considered to be effective and that all members 
made valuable contributions.
When considering Board membership, factors including 
the balance of skills, experience, knowledge of the Company 
and its diversity, including gender, were taken into account. 
The Senior Non-executive Director conducted a review to appraise 
the performance of the Chairman. There was agreement that the 
Chairman ensured vigorous debate in a collegiate atmosphere 
which was supportive of the Executive team while still being 
challenging. In addition, where there are corporate activities 
between meetings, the Chairman ensured that everyone was 
informed and up to date.
New Directors receive a comprehensive pack of information, 
attend a tailored induction programme and meet senior managers. 
This ensures that knowledge and understanding of the business 
and its technology is developed. The senior management 
present to the Board on a regular basis and the Board conducts 
site visits. All Directors are encouraged to and do attend other 
relevant training courses and events. 
Board committees
The Board has three formally established committees, with 
clearly defined written terms which are reviewed annually by 
the Board. Membership is as shown in the table on page 34. 
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the 
Company’s website. The role and work of the committees is 
outlined in the individual reports of the committees set out 
on pages 35 to 53.
Audit Committee
Robin Taylor was Chairman of the Audit Committee for 
the period under review. The Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the external financial reporting obligations and 
associated announcements, considering risk management, 
internal controls procedures and the work of the external 
auditor. The Committee met three times during the year 
and comprises all Non-executive Directors. 
Audit Committee report
> Pages 35 to 38
Remuneration Committee
Andy McKeon is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Committee met three times during the year and comprises 
all Non-executive Directors. The Committee is responsible for 
establishing a formal and transparent procedure for developing 
policy on Executive remuneration and for setting the 
remuneration of individual Directors.
Remuneration Committee report
> Pages 40 to 53
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mike O’Leary and 
comprises all the Non-executive Directors. The Committee 
is responsible for leading the Board appointments process and 
for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board 
and has met three times in the year. Full details of the work of 
the Committee are set out in the Nomination Committee report 
on page 39.
Nomination Committee report
> Page 39
Corporate governance continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 32 Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
controls, including reviewing the effectiveness of these controls 
and the processes in place for risk management. The processes 
and procedures in place are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risk and can therefore only provide a reasonable and not 
an absolute assurance against material misstatements or losses. 
The Group has extensive quality assurance processes and there 
are functions within the Group that provide assurance and advice 
covering specialist areas. These are reviewed on an annual basis 
against the current factors relevant to the Company’s activities, 
markets or other areas of the external environment that may, or 
may be expected to, increase the risks faced by the Company.
Executive Directors of each Group company have a close 
involvement with all day-to-day operations and also meet with 
staff on a regular basis to identify and review business risks, the 
controls needed to minimise those risks and the effectiveness 
of controls in place. Business risks are monitored and updated 
on a regular basis. Further information on the system of risk 
management is in the Strategic report on pages 14 and 15. 
Insurance is in place where appropriate.
Through all the processes above areas for enhancement are 
identified and action plans to ensure delivery are put in place. 
Delivery to plan is then monitored by the Board, the management 
and the Audit Committee. 
There is currently no internal audit function. Given the growth 
of the Group, recruitment is underway for a suitably qualified 
and experienced individual to join the Group in this role. 
Other key controls which contribute to the overall management of the Group include:
• A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
for decision. The Group Executive Board headed up by the 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and comprising 
senior managers within the Group has met on a monthly 
basis during the period under review. As well as reviewing 
the operational performance of the principal businesses of 
the Group, the Group Executive Board reviewed strategic 
issues, progress with integration and reviewed the 
risk register.
• An annual strategic review at which the senior managers 
of the principal operating businesses present updates 
on their current and future strategy to the Board. 
• Approval of all acquisition proposals with a clearly defined 
process for the review of those proposals against strategic 
objectives and defined investment appraisal criteria before 
they are considered by the Board. 
• Authorisation limits are in place for the approval 
of all contracts.
• Each principal business in the Group has an appropriate 
finance function with high quality professionals that report 
into the operational head and through the Group Financial 
Controller into the Chief Financial Officer.
• Extensive quality assurance processes by virtue of its 
internal quality assurance department which audits all 
non-financial processes and procedures. There are clearly 
defined roles, responsibilities and limits on authority in 
place. There are clearly defined policies on segregation 
of duties. The Group has four current ISO registrations 
including ISO27001 – Information Security. 
• The Board, independently and through the Audit Committee, 
reviews and is satisfied with the adequacy of the Group’s 
internal financial controls. These include a comprehensive 
annual budgetary process which is reviewed through the 
management structure and is considered and approved 
by the Board. The actual results are monitored against 
budget at each Board meeting and forecasts are revisited 
on a rolling basis. 
• Financial policies and approval procedures are in place 
which cover a number of key areas such as credit control 
and expenditure authorisation. These are reviewed 
regularly and, where appropriate, amended financial 
policies and approval procedures are put in place.
• A comprehensive monthly financial reporting system 
is in place which covers, amongst other things, operating 
results, cash flow, assets and liabilities and comparisons 
against budgets.
• The Board receives regular updates on property, pension, 
insurance, litigation, human resources, corporate social 
responsibility and health and safety matters.
• During 2015 an internal audit function will be established 
across the Group.
• The Group intends to roll out a common ERP solution 
(Microsoft Dynamics AX) across the Group to improve 
controls, business and financial reporting and processes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 33 Board and committee meetings
Full Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings in period 12 3 3 3 
Attendance
Executive Directors
Chris Spencer 12 — — —
Peter Southby 12 — — —
Sean Riddell 10 — — —
Non-executive Directors 
Mike O’Leary 12 3 3 3
Robin Taylor 12 3 3 3
Andrew McKeon 12 3 3 3
Kevin Boyd (appointed 9 May 2014 to the Board) 
(appointed 30 July 2014 to the Committees) 8 2 1 2
Investor relations
An extensive programme of meetings with analysts and institutional 
shareholders is held following the interim and preliminary results 
announcements. There is regular dialogue with individual institutional 
shareholders throughout the year to discuss strategy, performance 
and governance and to obtain feedback. These meetings are usually 
attended by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer. 
Feedback from these meetings and regular market updates 
prepared by the Company’s broker are presented to the Board 
to ensure they have an understanding of shareholders’ views. 
The Chairman and the Senior Non-executive Director are available 
to shareholders to discuss strategy and governance issues and 
any views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
In accordance with AIM Rule 26, there is an investors section on 
the Company’s website, www.emis-online.com/investors, which 
is kept up to date. All announcements are posted on the website. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
At the AGM, on 29 April 2015, separate resolutions will be 
proposed for each substantially different issue. Proxy votes are 
disclosed by means of an announcement on the London Stock 
Exchange and via the Group’s website. All Directors, including 
the committee Chairmen are available to answer questions at 
the AGM. The annual report, financial statements and related 
papers are placed on the Group’s website and posted to 
shareholders where they have requested a paper copy.
Corporate governance continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 34 Report of the audit committee
Membership
• Robin Taylor (Chairman)
• Andy McKeon
• Mike O’Leary
• Kevin Boyd (appointed 30 July 2014)
The role of the Audit Committee
The principal role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the 
integrity of the Group’s financial statements, to review the 
Company’s internal control and risk management systems 
and to review the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In addition, the Audit Committee makes recommendations in 
relation to the appointment of the external auditors, reviews 
their independence, performance and objectivity, develops 
the policy for the provision of non-audit services and reports 
to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities. 
The terms of reference are on the Company’s website and 
are reviewed and approved by the Board each year.
The Audit Committee is assisted in discharging its 
responsibilities by executive management reports, external 
audit reports, engagement with the Executive Management 
Team at the annual strategy meeting and from regular 
business planning and performance presentations.
Members
Robin Taylor is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and has served as Chief Financial Officer of several 
main market listed companies. The Board therefore considers 
him to have relevant financial experience, as it does also for 
Kevin Boyd, the current Group finance director of Oxford 
Instruments plc, who joined the Committee during the year. 
Other members of the Committee are Andy McKeon and 
Mike O’Leary, who were considered independent on Robin’s 
appointment as Chairman. The Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer and senior representatives of the 
external auditor attend Committee meetings by invitation 
to ensure that all relevant information is available 
to the Committee.
Biographical details and the remuneration of the Directors 
are set out on pages 28 and 29 respectively.
The Board believes that the current members have sufficient 
skills, qualifications and experience to discharge their duties 
in accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 35 Frequency of meetings
There have been three formal meetings during the year of which 
two are scheduled in accordance with the timetable for the release of 
the interim and full-year financial statements. The Audit Committee 
meets in March and September when, in addition to other business, 
it reviews the work and findings of the external auditor and considers 
the financial statements before publication. It also meets prior 
to the year-end to consider the quality of the external audit plans. 
The Audit Committee reports to the Board following each 
Audit Committee and meets with the external auditor, without 
Executive management present to discuss matters relating to its 
remit and any issues relating to the audit. The Chairman of the 
Audit Committee also meets with the external auditor and with 
the Chief Financial Officer regularly outside the formal meetings 
to ensure that any areas for discussion are dealt with on a timely 
basis. During 2015, we shall increase the number of formal 
meetings to a minimum of four in consideration of the expansion 
of the Group and we will focus on the development of the internal 
audit function and the significant investment in business systems. 
Review of activity
In discharging its responsibilities as outlined in the terms of 
reference the Committee has principally focused its activities 
on the areas outlined below.
Financial reporting
• Reviewed the full-year 2013 and 2014 results including the annual report and accounts, preliminary results statement and the 
report from the external auditor. In reviewing the statements and determining whether they were fair, balanced and understandable, 
the Committee considered the work and recommendations of the management as well as the report from the external auditor.
• Reviewed the 2014 interim results statement.
• Considered the appropriateness of accounting policies and the critical accounting estimates and judgements. To do this the 
Committee considered information provided by the Chief Financial Officer and reports from the external auditor setting out 
their views on the accounting treatments and judgements in the financial statements. 
• Reviewed the going concern assumption when considering preliminary and interim statements, including consideration 
of internal financial projections and sensitivities and the reports from the external auditor.
Risk management and internal control
• Reviewed the Group risk assessment process and concluded that it is appropriate and operating effectively. The Committee 
considers that the primary business risks are being captured and reported to the Board monthly and that the risk disclosures 
in the financial statements are appropriate.
• Considered the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems. The Committee noted that the control 
environment is continuing to develop, as set out in the corporate governance report, with particular focus on internal reporting 
and financial management. During the year a review of the Group’s finance and business systems was undertaken with external 
assistance and, following a rigorous tender process, a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution and implementation 
partner have been selected. In January 2015, an internal project team started working full time on the project and governance 
procedures were introduced, including monthly reporting to the Board. The Group intends to roll out the solution (Microsoft 
Dynamics AX) across the Group over the next two years to improve controls, business and financial reporting and processes 
and to provide a platform for further growth and integration.
• Reviewed the effectiveness of current compliance with the Bribery Act. There were no areas of non-compliance reported 
to the Committee during the year and the Committee was satisfied with current procedures, including the training on the 
Bribery Act given to all employees as part of the induction process. Compliance with the induction training policy is monitored 
by the Committee.
Report of the audit committee continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 36 2014 financial statements
In finalising the 2014 financial statements, the significant 
judgements considered by the Committee and discussed 
with the external auditor were as follows:
Acquisition accounting
The Committee reviewed the key assumptions made in accounting 
for the acquisitions completed during the year. This included 
a review of:
• the methodology for valuing and determining useful lives 
for the intangible assets identified; 
• accounting policy alignments, fair value determination and 
the treatment of consideration, in particular of contingent 
consideration, where the Committee concluded that the 
treatment was consistent with its understanding of expected 
business performance; and
• disclosure of the acquisitions in the financial statements.
The Committee discussed the outcomes with the external auditor 
and concluded that the acquisition accounting was appropriate.
Review of activity continued
Risk management and internal control continued
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the current procedures for the prevention of fraud. The Committee reviewed the measures in 
place for the prevention and detection of fraud including extensive internal quality assurance processes and the system of 
internal financial controls as set out in the Corporate governance report. During the year end review of controls and reporting, 
an instance of employee fraud was identified at one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings. While the fraud was not material 
to the Group, a full investigation of the circumstances has subsequently been undertaken by external experts and a full report 
of the findings has been provided to the auditor and to the Audit Committee. As a result, a number of changes have been 
implemented in order to further improve the controls over the relevant financial processes. 
• Reviewed the whistleblowing policy to ensure arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation 
of such matters. The Committee reviewed compliance activity in relation to this policy. The policy includes provision for 
employees to raise concerns with the Senior Non-executive Director. No serious matters were reported during the year. 
• Considered the level of focus on internal financial control. Due to the increasing complexity and growth of the Group during 
the year this has been given greater emphasis. The Group finance function has been strengthened through additional resource 
and the recruitment process for the appointment of a Group internal auditor nearing completion. The internal audit function 
will be formally established and embedded across the Group during 2015. 
External audit and appointment of external auditor
• Reviewed the scope and the audit plan for the year-end audits.
• Reviewed the formal engagement terms, objectivity and independence of the auditor, including the qualifications, expertise 
and resources available. Relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into consideration including the 
extent of non-audit work undertaken. The Audit Committee is consulted prior to engagement of the external auditor for 
non-audit work and formally approves any individually material non-audit services. Discretion is used in obtaining non-audit 
services from the external auditor, with other external advisers used where appropriate. During the year the cost of non-audit 
services carried out by the auditor amounted to £108,000. Full details are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
Effectiveness review
• A review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee was carried out and no deficiencies were raised. Executive management 
assisted the Audit Committee in ensuring that relevant papers of good quality were presented to allow informed debate 
and that sufficient time was available to enable relevant review. 
• Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process by reviewing, amongst other things, whether the auditor has met 
the agreed audit plan and by considering the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its handling of key accounting 
and audit judgements identified.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 37 2014 financial statements continued
Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets acquired
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets 
acquired are reviewed for impairment at least annually and 
are based on the net present value of projected cash flows for 
each cash-generating unit. Following the review, the Committee 
has concluded that no impairment is necessary. Details of the 
assumptions used are set out in note 13 to the financial statements. 
Revenue recognition
The Audit Committee considered the Group’s revenue recognition 
policies and concluded that the Group’s existing approach remained 
appropriate; noting that this was adequately explained in the 
revenue recognition accounting policy note and consistent with the 
requirements of IAS 18. The external auditor performed substantive 
testing in this area and reported its findings to the Committee. 
The Committee considered the application of the revenue 
recognition policy in the case of a material bespoke contract 
in the Secondary & Specialist Care Division and concluded 
that the policy had been appropriately applied.
Research & Development costs
The process to capture and categorise development costs 
was reviewed. It was noted that the process has been enhanced 
during the year with an increased focus on securing Research 
& Development tax credits and changes in working practices 
within the development teams. The internal IT system project 
planned for 2015 and 2016 will assist in further improving 
the quality of reporting in this area, which was nonetheless 
considered to be adequate at the current time. Balances carried 
forward in respect of development costs were considered for 
possible impairment and the Committee concluded that the 
carrying values and amortisation periods were appropriate. 
External audit appointment and re-appointment of auditor
• In line with the revised Code’s recommendations on audit 
tendering, the external audit contract was put out to tender 
in 2013, following which KPMG LLP were selected and appointed. 
• The Committee is pleased with the relationship it has 
developed with KPMG LLP and therefore has recommended 
to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the 
external auditor be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
Overview
As a result of undertaking the above activities during the year, 
I am satisfied that the Audit Committee has acted in accordance 
with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditor. 
Considerable progress has been made by Executive management 
in developing an integrated management reporting system 
allowing the Board and the Audit Committee to focus on the key 
performance drivers and risks in the business. We expect that 
this will be further enhanced through the implementation 
of the business information system.
Report of the audit committee continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 38 Report of the nomination committee
Membership
• Mike O’Leary (Chairman)
• Andy McKeon
• Robin Taylor
• Kevin Boyd (appointed 30 July 2014)
Review of activity during the year
• The Committee oversaw the appointment of Kevin Boyd 
as Non-executive Director. 
 – In light of the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, the Committee recommended 
the appointment of an additional Non-executive Director with 
finance experience, preferably from a FTSE 250 background. 
The Committee prepared a detailed description of the role and 
capabilities required for the appointment and following 
a competitive tender appointed Korn Ferry, who demonstrated 
a clear understanding of the market in which the Group 
operates, as external advisers to facilitate the search. 
 – Candidates were selected against objective criteria. Longlists 
of candidates were prepared which gave due consideration 
to diversity including gender. The appointments were made 
following interviews by the external facilitators and then by 
the Committee after obtaining external references. Shortlisted 
candidates were then finally interviewed by the remainder 
of the Board. The Board will always seek to appoint on merit.
• Following the decision of Sean Riddell to step down as 
Non-executive Director, the Committee reviewed the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and concluded 
that there was no immediate need to recruit an additional 
Non-executive Director. This will be kept under review. 
• The Committee considered succession planning for the Board 
and senior managers within the Group. This was also considered 
by the full Board. The Committee reviewed the process and 
appointment of the Managing Director of the Secondary Care 
division during the period under review. Both internal and 
external candidates were considered for the role using an external 
facilitator and were subject to a rigorous interview process. 
• The Committee considered its performance and terms of 
reference and concluded it continued to operate effectively.
The Committee also considered the following proposed appointments, 
having given regard to their ability to continue to contribute to the 
Board going forward. In all cases the Directors who were subject 
to election or re-election were not present and did not vote when 
proposals regarding their own position were discussed:
• re-appointment of Mike O’Leary as Non-executive Chairman 
with effect from 17 March 2014 and, after due consideration, 
recommended his re-appointment to the Board; 
• re-appointment of Robin Taylor as Senior Non-executive 
Director with effect from 1 March 2014 and, after due consideration, 
recommended his re-appointment to the Board;
• re-election of all of the members of the Board at the AGM on the 
30 April 2014 in line with the Articles of Association and, after due 
consideration, recommended their re-appointment to the Board;
• election of Kevin Boyd as Non-executive Director at the AGM 
on 29 April 2015 in accordance with the Code; and 
• re-election of all of the members of the Board at the AGM 
on the 29 April 2015 in accordance with the Code.
Roles and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
• ensuring that the balance of Directors on the Board remains 
appropriate as the Group develops; 
• identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies 
as and when they arise;
• evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience 
and diversity of the Board; and
• considering the succession planning for Directors and senior 
managers and ensuring succession is managed smoothly.
The Committee has formally met three times during the year. 
The Committee has terms of reference which are regularly reviewed 
and are published on the Group’s website. Non-executive Directors 
are appointed by a letter of engagement and details of their terms 
and those of the Executive Directors are given on pages 46 and 47.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 39 Against this background and in line with its remit, the Committee has considered a number 
of key issues during the year: 
• Reviewed the AGM voting outcome for the 2013 report.
• Reviewed the remuneration packages (including pension) of the Executive Directors with the aim of recognising best practice, 
aligning with shareholder objectives and encouraging behaviours to maintain the long-term success of the business.
• Reviewed and approved all bonus payments made to the Executive management and to the wider senior management 
Group. The Committee also approved the performance measures set for the bonus scheme for 2015.
• Reviewed reward structures of the Executive management and restructured where appropriate to ensure alignment across 
the wider Group.
• Reviewed and approved all awards made under the Company share option plan (CSOP). The Committee also approved 
the performance measures set for the CSOP. 
• Approved the vesting of the first awards under the 2011 CSOP. No Executive Director received an award in 2011.
• Reviewed and approved all awards made under the long-term incentive plan (LTIP). The Committee also approved 
the performance measures set for the LTIP. 
• Reviewed the CSOP and LTIP structure taking into account current best market practice and institutional investors’ 
current guidelines.
• Considered external market developments and best practice in remuneration.
• Considered the fee levels for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
• Reviewed the Committee terms of reference.
Report of the remuneration committee
Membership
• Andy McKeon (Chairman)
• Robin Taylor
• Mike O’Leary
• Kevin Boyd (appointed 30 July 2014)
Remuneration report
This report is split into three sections: firstly, my report, which 
summarises the work of the Remuneration Committee during the 
year; secondly, the Remuneration Policy; and, finally, the annual 
report on remuneration. This annual report sets out the remuneration 
paid to Directors in 2014 including bonus payments and long-term 
incentives. The report includes the detail on how we intend 
to implement our Remuneration Policy in 2015.
As the Company is quoted on AIM, it is not required to comply 
with the UK Listing Authority Rules or the UK Corporate Governance 
Code; however, the Committee did adopt a number of the key 
reporting requirements in 2013. The Committee remains committed 
to continuing development of best practice, where appropriate, 
in Remuneration Policy.
The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which are 
reviewed annually by the Committee. These are available on the 
website at www.emis-online.com/investors.
As stated in the Chief Executive’s statement EMIS Group had a strong, 
and busy year with the GPSoC framework agreement (Lots 1 and 2) 
secured; the acquisitions of Indigo 4 and Medical Imaging; winning 
significant contracts in CCMH and Secondary Care; and profitability 
and growth maintained.
The remuneration report will be presented at the Annual 
General Meeting on 29 April 2015 by way of an advisory vote.
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 40 Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Policy aims to ensure that members of the Board and Executive management are provided with appropriate 
incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their contribution to the 
success of the Group. The policy outlined on pages 41 to 48 applied from 30 April 2014.
Policy table
The Policy table below summarises the key components of remuneration for Executive Directors: 
Element Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To recognise the individual’s 
skills and experience and 
provide a competitive base 
reward to attract and retain 
Executive Directors. 
Base salaries are reviewed 
annually, taking into account 
the individual’s performance, 
responsibility, skills and 
experience; Group performance 
and market conditions; salary 
levels for similar roles at 
relevant comparators (including 
companies of a similar size 
and sector); and pay levels 
and salary increases across 
the wider employee population.
Any changes take effect 
from 1 January each year.
Any increase will typically be 
in line with those awarded to 
the wider employee population. 
The Committee has discretion 
to award higher increases in 
circumstances that it considers 
appropriate, such as a material 
change in complexity of the 
business or responsibility of 
the role. Details of salary 
changes will be disclosed in 
the annual report for the 
relevant year.
None.
Pension
To provide a market 
competitive retirement benefit.
The Group makes 
contributions to the private 
pension schemes of the 
Executive Directors.
Executive Directors receive 
a contribution of up to 15% 
of salary.
None.
Share incentive plan (SIP)
Open to all UK tax resident 
employees of participating 
Group companies with at least 
one year’s service. Executive 
Directors are eligible 
to participate.
The plan is an HMRC approved 
plan that allows an employee 
to purchase shares using gross 
pay. If an employee agrees to 
purchase shares, the Company 
matches purchased shares 
with an award of matching 
shares which are subject to 
continued employment for 
three years. Dividends accrue 
on purchased shares and 
matching shares.
Participants can purchase 
shares up to the prevailing 
HMRC approved limit at the 
time employees are invited 
to participate (currently up 
to £1,800 per annum).
The Company currently offers 
to match purchases made 
through the plan at the rate 
of one free matching share for 
every three shares purchased.
None.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 41 Benefits
To provide market 
competitive benefits.
Benefits may include, but 
are not limited to, a car or car 
allowance, life insurance, medical 
cover and income protection. 
In certain circumstances, the 
Committee may also approve 
the provision of additional 
allowances relating to the 
relocation of an Executive 
Director and other expatriate 
benefits to perform his 
or her role.
Benefits vary by role and 
individual circumstances and 
are reviewed periodically. 
Benefits in respect of the year 
under review are disclosed in 
the annual report. It is not 
anticipated that the cost of 
benefits will exceed this level 
in the financial years over 
which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains 
the discretion to approve a 
higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation) 
or in circumstances where 
factors outside the Group’s 
control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases 
in insurance premiums).
None.
Annual bonus
To provide an incentive to 
drive the Executive Directors 
to deliver stretching 
performance and growth. 
Performance measures, 
targets and weightings are set 
by the Committee at the start 
of the year. 
At the end of each year, the 
Committee determines the 
extent to which targets have 
been achieved.
Bonus payments are delivered 
entirely in cash and are not 
subject to claw back. 
For Executive Directors, 
the maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 100% of 
base salary. 
For threshold performance, 
no bonus is payable. For target 
performance, the bonus pays 
out at 50% of maximum.
Performance is assessed 
on an annual basis, using 
a combination of the 
Group’s main KPIs for the 
year. Measures may include 
financial and non-financial 
metrics as well as the 
achievement of personal 
objectives. The performance 
measure currently applied 
is Group adjusted profit; 
however, the Committee has 
the discretion to adjust the 
performance measures and 
weightings to ensure that they 
continue to be linked to the 
delivery of Group strategy.
Policy table continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 42 Annual Bonus continued
The range of performance 
required under each measure 
is calibrated with reference 
to the Group’s internal 
budgets. Any individual 
element is based on the 
strength of the Executive’s 
personal performance over 
the course of the year.
The Committee has the 
discretion to adjust the 
formulaic bonus outcomes 
both upwards (within the 
plan limits) and downwards 
to ensure that payments 
accurately reflect business 
performance over the 
performance period, e.g. 
in the event of unforeseen 
circumstances outside 
of management control.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
To drive sustained long-term 
business performance, aid 
retention and align the interests 
of Executive Directors 
with shareholders.
Awards of shares or nil cost 
options vest subject to the 
achievement of pre-defined 
performance conditions over 
a three-year period. 
At the start of each 
performance period, the 
Committee reviews award 
levels and performance 
conditions to ensure they 
remain appropriate and 
sets performance targets 
which it considers to be 
appropriately stretching. 
Dividend payments 
do not accrue.
LTIP awards are subject 
to claw back.
The LTIP provides for annual 
awards of performance shares 
of up to 100% of salary.
Threshold performance will 
result in 25% of maximum 
vesting, rising on a straight 
line basis to full vesting for 
maximum levels of performance.
Awards vest subject to 
continued employment and 
Group performance. The 
performance measure is 
currently growth in EPS; 
however, the Committee has 
the discretion to adjust the 
performance measures and 
weightings to ensure that they 
continue to be linked to the 
delivery of Group strategy.
Awards under the LTIP have 
a performance period of 
three years and a minimum 
vesting period of three years.
As under the annual bonus, 
the Committee has the 
discretion to adjust the 
formulaic LTIP outcomes 
to ensure that payments 
accurately reflect business 
performance over the 
performance period, e.g. 
in the event of unforeseen 
circumstances outside 
of management control.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 43 Notes to the policy table
Performance measurement selection
The aim of the annual bonus plan is to reward key Executives 
over and above base salary for the achievement of business 
objectives. The bonus criteria are selected annually to reflect the 
Group’s main KPIs for the year and are designed to encourage 
continuous performance improvement for the Group. Group 
financial performance targets relating to the annual bonus plan 
are set from the Group’s annual budget, which is reviewed and 
signed off by the Group Board prior to the start of each financial 
year. Adjusted profit is currently used as a key performance 
indicator for the annual bonus plan because it is a clear measure 
of the underlying financial performance of the Group. 
LTIP awards currently vest based on EPS growth over three 
years. EPS has been selected as it is a key measure of long-term 
performance for the Group and is closely aligned with the Group’s 
strategic plans and with the profit attributable to shareholders. 
For the LTIP, performance measures and targets are reviewed 
by the Committee ahead of each grant and must be considered 
by the Committee to be challenging but achievable. 
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed regularly, 
based on a number of internal and external reference points. 
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, 
with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic 
environment in a given year.
Remuneration policy for other employees
The approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across 
the Group, with consideration given to individual performance, 
skills, experience and responsibility; Group performance and 
market conditions; and salary levels for similar roles in relevant 
comparators. Opportunities and specific performance conditions 
vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics 
incorporated where appropriate. A senior management group 
of approximately 32 individuals is eligible to participate in the 
LTIP. Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, 
while award sizes vary by organisational level. Specific cash 
incentives are also in place to motivate, reward and retain staff 
below Board level. All UK-based employees are eligible to 
participate in the Company’s SIP scheme on the same terms.
Shareholding guidelines
The Committee continues to recognise the importance of Executive 
Directors aligning their interests with shareholders through building 
up a significant shareholding in the Company. Shareholding 
guidelines are in place that require Executive Directors to acquire 
a holding, equivalent to 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 100% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer. A Director 
would only be able to dispose of shares if it did not take the holding 
below the relevant minimum retention value or if the disposal 
was to meet a tax liability created by the vesting of a share award. 
Shares granted under the LTIP must be held for two years from 
their vesting date, subject to any sale to meet a tax liability. 
Shares held during the retention period are also subject 
to a claw back provision. 
Pay scenario charts for Executive Directors
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the two current Executive Directors for 2015 
and the potential split between different elements of remuneration under three different scenarios: “Minimum”, “Target” 
and “Maximum” performance.
Chief Executive Officer – Chris Spencer
0 £000s 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Maximum £691k
£535k
£379k
Target
Minimum
Chief Financial Officer – Peter Southby
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Maximum
Target
Minimum
£498k
£385k
£273k
£000s
— Basic salary and benefits
— Bonus
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 44 Pay scenario charts for Executive Directors continued
Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the table below. Potential reward opportunities illustrated above 
are based on the Remuneration Policy, applied to the base salary as at 1 January 2015. It should be noted that LTIP awards granted 
in a year normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and the projected value of LTIP amounts excludes the impact 
of share price movement over the vesting period. No share scheme awards are expected to vest for either Director during 2015. 
Actual pay delivered, however, will be influenced by these factors.
Component “Minimum” “Target” “Maximum”
Fixed
Base salary Latest known salary
Pension Contribution rate applied to latest known salary
Other benefits Benefits as provided in the single figure table on page 50
Annual bonus No bonus payable 50% 100%
LTIP No LTIP vesting 25% 100%
Approach to recruitment remuneration – Executive Directors
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any or all of the existing components 
of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach Maximum value
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the 
individual’s role, responsibilities, experience and skills, relevant market data, internal 
relativities and their current basic salary. Where new appointees have initial basic 
salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over 
a period of years subject to their development in the role.
Not applicable.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to receive a pension contribution in line with existing policy.
SIP New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Company’s HMRC approved 
all-employee share scheme, in line with the policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the policy.
Annual bonus The annual bonus described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with 
the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment 
over the year. Targets for the individual element will be tailored to the Executive.
Up to 100% 
of salary p.a.
LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP which will normally be on the 
same terms as awards made to other Executive Directors, as described in the policy table.
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors 
(including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that the pay 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders. 
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under a different 
structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Approach to recruitment remuneration – Executive Directors continued
Such “buyout awards” would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited. In doing so, the Committee will consider 
relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met 
and the proportion of the vesting period remaining. 
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Remuneration Committee will be consistent with 
the policy for external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion 
to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements. 
In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-executive Director, the Committee will follow the policy as set out in the table on page 46 
onwards. A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable 
for additional services, such as chairing a Board committee.
External appointments
It is the Board’s policy to allow each Executive Director to take up one non-executive position on the board of another company, 
subject to the prior approval of the Board. Any fee earned in relation to outside appointments is retained by the Executive Director. 
No such positions were taken and so no such fees were paid during the financial year. Executive Directors’ contracts are available to 
view at the Company’s registered office.
Service contracts 
The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with the Group. The principal terms of the Executive 
Directors’ service contracts are as follows:
Notice period
Executive Director Position Effective date of contract From Company From Director
Chris Spencer Chief Executive Officer 3 July 2013 Twelve months Twelve months
Peter Southby Chief Financial Officer 1 October 2012 Twelve months Twelve months
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors
The Board determines the Remuneration Policy and level of fees for the Non-executive Directors, within the limits set out in the 
articles of association. The Remuneration Committee recommends the Remuneration Policy and level of fees for the Chairman of the Board. 
The policy table below summarises the key components of remuneration for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
metrics
Fees
To reflect market 
competitive rates 
for the role, as well 
as individual 
performance and 
contribution.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
receive a basic fee for their respective roles. 
Additional fees are paid to Non-executive 
Directors for additional services such 
as chairing a Board committee. 
Fees are reviewed annually with reference 
to information provided by remuneration 
surveys, the extent of the duties performed, 
time commitment, and the size and 
complexity of the Group. Fee levels are 
benchmarked against sector comparators 
and appropriate listed companies 
of similar size and complexity.
Fee increases are applied in line with the 
outcome of the annual review. Fees for the 
year commencing 1 January 2015 are set out 
in the annual report on remuneration.
There is no prescribed maximum fee. It is 
expected that increases to Non-executive 
Director fee levels will be in line with salaried 
employees over the life of the policy. However, 
in the event that there is a material misalignment 
with the market or a change in the complexity, 
responsibility or time commitment required to 
fulfil a Non-executive Director role, the Board 
has discretion to make an appropriate 
adjustment to the fee level.
None.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 46 Non-executive Directors’ service contracts
Letters of appointment are provided to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors. Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment 
effective for a period of three years and are subject to annual re-election at the AGM. Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
are available to view at the Company’s registered office. 
Directors’ letters of appointment and the unexpired period of their appointments (where appropriate after extension by re-election) 
are set out below:
Unexpired term Last
Date of first as at Date of last re-appointment
Non-executive Director appointment 31 March 2015 appointment at AGM Notice period
Mike O’Leary 17 March 2011 1 year 11 months 17 March 2014 30 April 2014 Six months
Robin Taylor 1 March 2010 1 year 11 months 1 March 2014 30 April 2014 Six months
Andy McKeon 1 February 2013 10 months 1 February 2013 30 April 2014 Six months
Kevin Boyd 9 May 2014 2 years 1 month 9 May 2014 — Six months
Exit payment policy
The Company’s policy is to limit any payment made to a departing Director to contractual arrangements and to honour any pre-established 
commitments. As part of this process, the Committee will take into consideration the Executive Director’s duty to mitigate their loss.
The table below summarises how the awards under the bonus scheme and LTIP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios 
and a change of control. Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining “good leaver” status, it typically defines 
a “good leaver” in circumstances such as retirement with the consent of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, 
or any other reason as the Committee decides. Final treatment is subject to the Committee’s discretion.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards
Annual bonus
“Good leaver” Paid at the same time 
as continuing employees.
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance 
targets are satisfied and the award is pro-rated for 
the proportion of the financial year served.
“Bad leaver” No annual bonus payable. Not applicable.
Change of control Paid immediately on the effective date 
of change of control.
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance 
targets are satisfied up to the change of control and 
the award is pro-rated for the proportion of the 
financial year served to the effective date of change 
of control.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 47 Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards
LTIP
“Good leaver” Continue until the normal vesting date 
or vest immediately at the discretion 
of the Committee. In the event of death 
of a participant, the award would 
vest immediately.
Outstanding awards vest to the extent the 
performance conditions are satisfied and the awards 
are pro-rated to reflect the length of the vesting 
period served unless the Board decides otherwise. 
In the event of the death of a participant during the 
performance period, the award would vest in full.
“Bad leaver” Outstanding awards are forfeited. Not applicable.
Change of control Vest immediately on the effective 
date of change of control.
Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction 
of performance conditions as at the effective date 
of change of control, and the award is pro-rated for 
the proportion of the vesting period served to the 
effective date of change of control unless the Board 
decides otherwise.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. 
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base pay increases across the Group as a factor in determining the base salary 
increases for Executive Directors. Further, the Committee regularly reviews information with regard to bonus payments and share 
awards made to senior management. In particular, the Committee reviews the remuneration structure and pay proposals, and approves 
the structure and targets for their bonus plans. It also oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures. 
The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Remuneration 
Policy and framework, although as members of the Board the Committee receive updates from the Executive Directors on their 
discussions and consultations with employees.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is sensitive to the views of shareholders and engages regularly with its investors following results announcements. 
The Committee welcomes shareholder feedback on any issue related to Directors’ remuneration, including feedback received 
from the AGM, and regularly reviews Directors’ remuneration to take into account any feedback it receives. 
Exit payment policy continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 48 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration
The following section provides details of how the Group’s Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year ending 
31 December 2014.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2014
The Committee met three times formally during the year under review. The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board. 
Attendance by individual Committee members at meetings is detailed below.
Member Number of
Committee member throughout 2014 meetings attended
Andy McKeon Yes 3
Robin Taylor Yes 3
Mike O’Leary Yes 3
Kevin Boyd Appointed 30 July 2014 2
During the year, the Committee sought internal support from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who attended 
Committee meetings by invitation from the Chairman to advise on specific questions raised by the Committee and on matters 
relating to the performance and remuneration of senior managers where it was considered that their attendance would make a 
significant contribution. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were not present for any discussions that related 
directly to their own remuneration. The Company Secretary attended each meeting as Secretary to the Committee.
Independent advice
In undertaking its responsibilities, the Committee seeks independent external advice as necessary. To this end, for the year under 
review, the Committee continued to retain the services of Kepler Associates as the principal external advisers to the Committee. 
The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers on a regular basis and is satisfied that the Kepler team provides 
independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with the Group that may impair its 
independence. Kepler Associates is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, 
details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. When required, Kepler Associates provides independent 
advice on a wide range of remuneration matters including current market practice, benchmarking of Executive pay and incentive 
design and provides no other services to the Company. 
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2014 AGM
There was an advisory vote on the remuneration report at the AGM in 2014. The result of the vote was published on the website after 
the meeting. Of the 48,209,825 votes cast, 30,281,081 (63.02%) of the votes were for the resolution, with 17,766,819 (37.97%) against 
and 157,210 votes withheld. On consultation with shareholders, the votes against were principally motivated by two grants under 
the CSOP for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for £10,000 each made without performance conditions as 
performance conditions were not applied historically to recipients under the CSOP. No grants will be made under the CSOP 
to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer going forward.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 49 Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors – audited
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 
31 December 2014 and the prior year:
Chris Spencer Peter Southby
£’000 £’000
2014 2013 2014 2013
Base salary 300 274 200 175
Taxable benefits
1
19 14 13 13
Pension
2
45 17 30 21
Annual bonus
3
150 — 100 63
Share schemes
4
1 1 1 —
Total 515 306 344 272
1.  Taxable benefits consist primarily of company car or car allowance. Chris Spencer and Peter Southby are each entitled to a car allowance of £15,000 p.a.
2.  Pension: During the year, the Executive Directors received 15% of base salary as employer contributions.
3.  Annual bonus: This is the total bonus earned in respect of performance during the relevant year. Annual bonuses are received in cash. Further details of annual 
bonus awards for 2015 can be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee on page 53. Chris Spencer waived the bonus in 2013. 
4.  No long-term incentive awards vested in relation to a performance period ending in the year. The amounts shown relate to matching shares awarded under the SIP.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors – audited
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ended 
31 December 2014 and the prior year:
Base fee 
£’000
 Committee chairmanship fees 
£’000
Total 
£’000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Mike O’Leary 80 63 — — 80 63
Sean Riddell 35 26 — — 35 26
Robin Taylor 35 35 5 5 40 40
Andy McKeon 35 31 5 5 40 36
Kevin Boyd
1
23 — — — 23 —
1.  Kevin Boyd was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 9 May 2014.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2014
Bonus
During the year ended 31 December 2014, Executive Directors were eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of salary, depending 
on the level of Group adjusted profit achieved. Target performance was calibrated to deliver a bonus of 50% of maximum, with no 
payment for below threshold performance. Bonuses are paid entirely in cash and are not subject to clawback. Corporate targets 
set by the Committee require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance. Performance, taking into account the 
impact of acquisitions and associated costs in the year, resulted in an on-target performance for the period. The Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the results and, in line with the rules, of the bonus scheme, approved the payment of bonuses of 50% of salary 
to the Chief Executive Officer and 50% of salary to the Chief Financial Officer. 
For 2014 the targets were as follows:
• 0% of salary if the Group adjusted profit were below £32.5m;
• 50% of salary if the Group adjusted profit were or exceeded £32.5m; and
• If the Group adjusted profit were greater than £32.5m then bonus would increase pro rata to Group adjusted profit up to a maximum 
of 100% at £41.85m.
Long-term incentive awards vesting
No long-term incentive awards vested in relation to a performance period ending in the year. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 50 Scheme interests awarded in 2014 – audited
2014 long-term share incentive award
A one-off long-term share incentive award was made to Chris Spencer which related to his appointment as Chief Executive. 
The award could not be made at the time of appointment as the Company was in a close period but was made at the earliest 
practical opportunity thereafter.
Awards
made Market price Face value
during at date of Normal at date of
Executive Director Date of grant the year award vesting date award
Chris Spencer 16 January 2014 49,019 630p 16 January 2017 £300,000
This award vests based on the growth in adjusted earnings per share (EPS) delivered over a three-year period and is subject to claw 
back and a retention period.
2014 long-term incentive plan 
In 2014, the following awards were granted under the long-term incentive plan.
Awards
made Market price Face value
during at date of Normal at date of
Executive Director Date of grant the year award vesting date award
Chris Spencer 1 May 2014 47,581 635p 1 May 2017 £300,000
Peter Southby 1 May 2014 31,721 635p 1 May 2017 £200,000
Performance condition for 2014 awards
Performance level
EPS growth over
 performance
 period
% award 
to vest
Below threshold Below
33.1%
0% 
Base target threshold 33.1% 25%
Middle target threshold 46.3% 50%
Maximum target threshold 72.8%
or higher 100%
Performance conditions – Insofar as the base target threshold is exceeded the percentage of award shares vesting increases pro rata 
between the base target and the maximum target.
2014 SIP awards 
During the year under review, the Executive Directors were awarded matching shares under the SIP as a result of their own personal 
contributions in acquiring partnership shares. The value of these was less than £1,000 each. There were no performance conditions 
attached to the SIP awards. The Executive Directors participate in the SIP to the maximum extent permitted by the HMRC. The Company 
offers a 1:3 match for partnership shares purchased by employees.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 51 Ad hoc payments 
There were no ad hoc payments to any Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Payments to past Directors
There were no payments to past Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the Group’s expenditure on shareholder distributions (including dividends) and total employee 
pay expenditure for the financial years ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014.
Total employee Distributions
expenditure to shareholders
2014 £65.1m £11.5m
2013 £48.6m £10.1m
% change 34% 15%
TSR performance
26/03/10 26/03/11 26/03/12 26/03/13 26/03/14 16/03/15
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
— EMIS total shareholder return (since IPO)
— FTSE AIM All Share total shareholder return (rebased)
The graph above compares the value of £100 invested in EMIS Group plc shares, including re-invested dividends, with the FTSE AIM 
Index since the 26 March 2010, which is the date of admission to trading on AIM. This index was selected because it is considered 
to be the most appropriate against which the total shareholder return of the Group should be measured. 
Directors’ interests – audited
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
at 31 December at 31 December
Director 2014 2013
Chris Spencer 285,369 291,779
Peter Southby 4,878 4,878
Mike O’Leary 1,000 1,000
Sean Riddell
1
7,092,605 7,092,605
Robin Taylor 1,800 1,800
Andy McKeon 1,626 1,626
Kevin Boyd
2
1,500 —
1. Sean Riddell resigned as a Non-executive Director on 30 January 2015.
2. Kevin Boyd was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 9 May 2014.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 52 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2015
Base salary
Market positioning of base salary is approached on an individual basis, taking account of advice received from the Committee’s 
independent advisers on the rates of salary for similar roles in selected groups of comparable companies and the individual 
performance and experience of each Executive. 
When Chris Spencer and Peter Southby were appointed, their overall remuneration package was based on advice from Kepler 
Associates and set against market practice, their experience to date and the demands of the business. The business has grown 
under Chris’ leadership. However, as he has been in post for less than two years, the Committee considered it would not be right 
at this stage to increase his salary significantly above the general pay award made to Group employees. The Committee therefore 
considered it appropriate to increase Chris’s salary from £300,000 to £312,000 from 1 January 2015.
Peter Southby’s salary on appointment was at the lower end of the market range advised by Kepler Associates. It is the view of 
the Committee that the role has grown considerably since that time. In addition to the extended Group finance team, he has also 
taken on direct responsibility for a number of Group support functions including legal, human resources, property and governance. 
Taking this into account, the Committee considered it appropriate to increase his salary from £200,000 to £225,000 from 
1 January 2015.
Both base salaries will be subject to independent review in 2015.
Base salary from Base salary from
1 January 2014 to 1 January 2015 to Percentage
Executive Director 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 Increase
Chris Spencer £300,000 £312,000 4%
Peter Southby £200,000 £225,000 12.5%
Pension
For 2015, Executive Directors will receive a contribution of up to 15% of salary.
Annual bonus
The performance measure for the annual bonus for Executive Directors will be unchanged for the 2015 financial year and will 
operate on the same basis as in 2014. The bonus outcome will be based on an adjusted profit measure. Adjusted profit means 
operating profit as adjusted for exceptional costs, any M&A activity in the year, the effect of capitalisation and amortisation 
of development costs and the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Proposed targets have been set to be challenging relative to the 2015 business plan. As specific targets are deemed to be 
commercially sensitive they will be published retrospectively in the annual report on remuneration for 2015.
LTIP
For 2015, Executive Directors will be eligible to receive awards of performance shares up to 100% of salary, based on EPS growth 
over three years and vesting three years from the date of grant. Details of any awards in the 2015 financial year will be provided 
in next year’s annual report on remuneration. 
SIP
Executive Directors will be able to continue to participate in the SIP on the same basis as in the 2014 financial year.
Chairman and Non-executive Director fees
In 2014, the Board undertook a review of Non-executive Director fees. Following consideration of actual and proposed salary increases 
across the Group, indicative fee increases at sector and appropriate FTSE comparators and the level of engagement of the Chairman, 
the Board determined that there would be no increase to the Chairman’s or to other Non-executive Directors’ fees for 2015. Fee levels 
are subject to annual review and it has been agreed that a review taking independent advice will be undertaken in 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Directors’ report
The Directors present their report and audited consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
This report contains certain statutory, regulatory and other 
information and incorporates, by reference, to certain 
disclosures included earlier in this document. 
General information and principal activities
EMIS Group plc (“the Company” or “the parent company”) 
is an AIM quoted company. The Company is the parent of 
trading subsidiary companies (together “the Group”), the 
principal trading subsidiaries being Egton Medical Information 
Systems Limited (“EMIS”), Rx Systems Limited (“Rx Systems”), 
Ascribe Limited (“Ascribe”), Digital Healthcare Systems Limited 
(“Digital Healthcare”), Medical Imaging UK Limited (“Medical 
Imaging”) and MIDRSS Limited.
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and 
domiciled in the UK. The address of its Registered Office 
is Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. 
The principal activity of the Group is the design of computer 
software for healthcare professionals, mainly general practitioners, 
community pharmacists, secondary and specialist care providers 
and other clinicians, together with the hosting, provision of 
specialist ICT infrastructure and support of computer systems 
for healthcare professionals and other related users. Further 
information on the principal activities of the Group is described 
on pages 2 to 5. 
Dividends
The Directors remain committed to increasing the dividend. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) on 29 April 2015, the Board proposes paying a final 
dividend of 9.2p per ordinary share (2013: 8.0p) on 1 May 2015 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
10 April 2015. This would make a total dividend of 18.4p 
per ordinary share for 2014 (2013: 16.0p).
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company who served during the year 
ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: 
• Michael (Mike) O’Leary 
Chairman
• Christopher (Chris) Spencer 
Chief Executive Officer
• Peter Southby 
Chief Financial Officer
• Robin Taylor 
Senior Non-executive Director
• Andrew (Andy) McKeon 
Non-executive Director
• Kevin Boyd (appointed 9 May 2014) 
Non-executive Director
• Sean Riddell (resigned 30 January 2015) 
Non-executive Director
Board of Directors’ biographies
> Pages 28 to 29
Directors are subject to annual re-election and details of 
Directors’ remuneration, service agreements and interests 
in the share capital of the Company are given in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 53.
Remuneration Committee report
> Pages 40 to 53
No Director has had any material interest in any contract 
of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries 
during the year under review.
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 54 Substantial interests in shares
As at 18 March 2015, the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests in 3% or more in its ordinary shares:
Number of % issued
shares capital 
Liontrust Investment Partners LLP 8,418,931 13.29
Sean Riddell 7,092,605 11.20
Standard Life Investments 6,419,916 10.14
NFU Mutual Insurance Society Ltd 3,188,428 5.04
Phillip Woodrow 2,937,301 4.64
Gary Shuckford 2,231,480 3.52
M&G Investment Management Society Ltd 2,226,884 3.52
RIT Capital Partners plc 2,000,000 3.16
Research and development
Research and development expenditure in the year amounted to 
£16.8m (2013: £11.1m) of which £6.5m (2013: £6.1m) was capitalised. 
Share capital
As at 18 March 2015 and 31 December 2014, the Company had 
63,311,396 (31 December 2013: 63,311,396) ordinary shares of one 
pence each in issue. The shares are traded on AIM, a market operated 
by the London Stock Exchange plc. The rights and obligations 
attached to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association which are available on the Company’s website.
The Company has previously established an Employee Benefit 
Trust (EBT) to hold shares in the Company to facilitate share-based 
emolument payments and the Group Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
As at 31 December 2014 the EBT held 636,832 (2013: 446,960)
ordinary shares of one pence each. The EBT has waived 
its right to dividends.
Details of ordinary shares under option in respect of the Company’s 
share schemes are shown in note 26 to the financial statements.
The rules of the LTIP and CSOP set out the consequences in the 
event of a change of control. Further information is given in the 
Remuneration Committee report on pages 40 to 53. 
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Articles of Association, the officers of the 
Company and its subsidiaries would be indemnified in respect of 
proceedings which might be brought by a third party. No cover 
is provided for Directors and officers in respect of any fraudulent 
or dishonest actions. No such indemnities have been granted.
Employees
The Group’s policy is to ensure adequate provision for the 
welfare, and health and safety of its employees and of other 
people who may be affected by its activities. The Group is 
committed to ensuring there are equal opportunities for all 
employees, irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, sexual 
orientation, disability or marital status.
The Group encourages the involvement of its employees and 
employees are made aware of significant matters through regular 
updates from the Chief Executive Officer and divisional managing 
directors, management meetings, informal briefings, team meetings 
and the Company’s intranet, discussion forums and website.
The Group treats applications for employment from disabled 
persons equally with those of other applicants having regard to 
their ability, experience and the requirements of the job. Where 
existing employees become disabled, appropriate efforts are 
made to provide them with continuing suitable work within the 
Group and to provide retraining if necessary. 
Corporate social responsibility
> Pages 24 to 27
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 55 Political donations 
No political donations were made in 2014 (2013: £nil).
Going concern
The Group’s activities and an outline of the developments taking 
place in relation to its products, services and marketplace are 
considered in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 27. The revenue, 
trading results and cash flows are explained in the Financial 
Review on pages 21 to 23.
Note 3 to the financial statements sets out the Group’s financial 
risks and the management of capital risks.
The Group has a term loan repayable in quarterly instalments 
of £1m until June 2017. However, it is profitable and expects to 
continue to be so. It has significant cash resources, a high and 
continuing level of recurring revenue and also expects to continue 
to have high cash conversion for the foreseeable future. 
The Directors considered the going concern assumption and 
after careful enquiry and review of available financial information, 
including projections of profitability and cash flows for the two 
years to 31 December 2016, the Directors believe that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable 
future and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
consolidated and Company financial statements.
AGM notice
The notice convening the AGM to be held on 29 April 2015, 
together with an explanation of the resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting, is contained in a separate circular to shareholders 
and on the Company’s website at www.emis-online.com/investors.
Auditor and statement as to disclosure of information 
to the auditor
The Directors who were in office on the date of approval of 
these financial statements have confirmed, as far as they are 
aware, that there is no relevant audit information of which the 
auditor is unaware. Each of the Directors has confirmed that 
they have taken all reasonable steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that it has been 
communicated to the auditor.
The auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated its willingness to 
be re-appointed and, in accordance with Section 489 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a resolution that they be re-appointed 
will be proposed at the AGM.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be 
found in the Corporate governance report on pages 30 to 34 
of this annual report and accounts. The Corporate governance 
report forms part of this Directors’ report and is incorporated 
into it by cross-reference.
By order of the Board
Caroline Farbridge
Company Secretary
18 March 2015
Directors’ report continued
GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 56 The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, 
Strategic report and the Directors’ report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
As required by the AIM Rules of the London Stock Exchange 
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements on the same basis. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company 
and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each 
of the Group and parent company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
In respect of the Annual report, Strategic report, Directors’ report and the financial statements
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 58
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of EMIS Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of EMIS Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 59 to 90. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 57, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an 
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Johnathan Pass (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants  
1 The Embankment 
Neville Street 
Leeds LS1 4DW
18 March 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 59
Group statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 2013
Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 5 137,639 105,542
Costs:
Changes in inventories 119 174
Cost of goods and services (12,901) (11,954)
Staff costs 9 (58,571) (42,522)
Other operating expenses
1
(21,799) (16,773)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (4,005) (3,286)
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 (11,361) (6,236)
Adjusted operating profit 32,639 26,065
Development costs capitalised 6,523 6,098
Exceptional transaction costs — (1,144)
Release of contingent acquisition consideration 873 —
Amortisation of intangible assets
2
(10,914) (6,074)
Operating profit 6 29,121 24,945
Finance income 7 10 20
Finance costs 8 (553) (262)
Share of result of associate 17 (55) 20
Share of result of joint venture 17 17 (88)
Profit before taxation 28,540 24,635
Income tax expense 10 (5,719) (4,706)
Profit for the year 22,821 19,929
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (86) (22)
Other comprehensive income (86) (22)
Total comprehensive income for the year 22,735 19,907
Attributable to:
– equity holders of the parent 22,058 19,369
– non-controlling interest in subsidiary company 677 538
Total comprehensive income for the year 22,735 19,907
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent Pence Pence
Basic 11 35.3 32.6
Diluted 11 35.2 32.6
1.  Including contract asset depreciation of £3,761,000 (2013: £3,241,000), exceptional transaction costs of £nil (2013: £1,144,000) and release of contingent acquisition 
consideration of £873,000 (2013: £nil).
2.  Excluding amortisation of computer software purchased externally of £447,000 (2013: £162,000).
The notes on pages 63 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 60
Group Company
2013 2013
Notes
2014
£’000
Restated
1 
£’000
2014
£’000
Restated
1 
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 68,577 59,264 — —
Other intangible assets 14 70,820 67,204 784 —
Property, plant and equipment 15 24,313 24,610 — —
Investments in subsidiaries 16 — — 82,370 70,370
Investment in joint venture and associates 17 2,705 2,760 — —
166,415 153,838 83,154 70,370
Current assets
Inventories 18 1,550 1,431 — —
Trade and other receivables 19 28,732 21,448 4,273 2,673
Cash and cash equivalents 6,939 4,167 — —
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies — — 50,118 45,277
37,221 27,046 54,391 47,950
Total assets 203,636 180,884 137,545 118,320
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (20,782) (16,705) (357) (172)
Current tax liabilities (1,246) (2,341) (163) —
Bank loans 22 (12,902) (7,902) (12,902) (7,902)
Bank overdraft — — (5,202) (4,558)
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies — — (48,852) (38,446)
Contingent acquisition consideration (2,750) (2,129) (2,750) (2,129)
Deferred income (29,985) (25,453) — —
(67,665) (54,530) (70,226) (53,207)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 22 (5,854) (9,756) (5,854) (9,756)
Deferred tax liability 24 (12,709) (11,481) — —
Contingent acquisition consideration (2,500) (994) (2,500) (994)
(21,063) (22,231) (8,354) (10,750)
Total liabilities (88,728) (76,761) (78,580) (63,957)
NET ASSETS 114,908 104,123 58,965 54,363
EQUITY
Ordinary share capital 25 633 633 633 633
Share premium 25 51,045 51,045 51,045 51,045
Own shares held in trust (3,718) (2,325) — —
Retained earnings 60,109 48,522 5,068 466
Other reserve 2,111 2,197 2,219 2,219
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 110,180 100,072 58,965 54,363
Non-controlling interests 4,728 4,051 — —
TOTAL EQUITY 114,908 104,123 58,965 54,363
1.  2013 comparatives have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ to reflect changes in the provisional consideration related to the 
acquisition of Ascribe. Certain changes, totalling £871,000, have resulted from additional information concerning facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition 
date and, as such, have been classified as measurement-period adjustments. Goodwill in the prior period has reduced by £871,000, with a corresponding decrease 
in the consideration liability. There has been no impact on profits for the year in either period.
The notes on pages 63 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 59 to 90 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 18 March 2015 
and are signed on its behalf by:
Chris Spencer Peter Southby
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Group and parent company balance sheets
As at 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 61
Group and parent company statements of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
2014 2013 2014
2013
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash generated from operations 29 44,856 38,725 (1,001) (1,833)
Finance costs (455) (600) (456) (594)
Finance income 10 20 — —
Tax paid (5,247) (5,073) 580 (277)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 39,164 33,072 (877) (2,704)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6,873) (8,403) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 291 219 — —
Development costs capitalised (6,523) (6,098) — —
Purchase of software (1,765) (524) (784) —
Increase/(decrease) in loan from subsidiary company — — 6,638 (27,917)
Dividends received — — 15,000 10,000
Business combinations (10,250) (57,534) (9,000) (16,860)
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (25,120) (72,340) 11,854 (34,777)
Cash flows from financing activities
Share placing — 26,322 — 26,322
(Increase)/decrease in loan to Employee Benefits Trust — — (1,829) 1,065
Transactions in own shares held in trust (1,480) 552 — —
Bank loan repayments (7,000) (2,400) (7,000) (2,400)
Bank loans drawn down 8,000 17,000 8,000 17,000
Dividends paid (10,792) (9,146) (10,792) (9,146)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (11,272) 32,328 (11,621) 32,841
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,772 (6,940) (644) (4,640)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,167 11,107 (4,558) 82
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 30 6,939 4,167 (5,202) (4,558)
The notes on pages 63 to 90 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 62
Group and parent company statements of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Non-
Share Share Own shares Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium held in trust earnings reserve interest equity
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2013 586 24,767 (2,877) 38,076 — 3,513 64,065
Profit for the year — — — 19,391 — 538 19,929
Transactions with owners 
Share placing 44 26,278 — — — — 26,322
Shares issued 3 — — — 2,219 — 2,222
Share acquisitions less sales — — 552 — — — 552
Share-based payments — — — 195 — — 195
Deferred tax in relation 
to share-based payments — — — 6 — — 6
Dividends paid (note 12) — — — (9,146) — — (9,146)
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences — — — — (22) — (22)
Balance at 1 January 2014 633 51,045 (2,325) 48,522 2,197 4,051 104,123
Profit for the year — — — 22,144 — 677 22,821
Transactions with owners 
Share acquisitions less sales — — (1,393) (87) — — (1,480)
Share-based payments — — — 270 — — 270
Deferred tax in relation 
to share-based payments — — — 52 — — 52
Dividends paid (note 12) — — — (10,792) — — (10,792)
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences — — — — (86) — (86)
Balance at 31 December 2014 633 51,045 (3,718) 60,109 2,111 4,728 114,908
Share Share Retained Other Total
capital premium earnings reserve equity
Company
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2013 586 24,767 1,010 — 26,363
Profit for the year — — 8,407 — 8,407
Transactions with owners
Share placing 44 26,278 — — 26,322
Shares issued 3 — — 2,219 2,222
Share-based payments — — 195 — 195
Dividends paid (note 12) — — (9,146) — (9,146)
Balance at 1 January 2014 633 51,045 466 2,219 54,363
Profit for the year — — 15,211 — 15,211
Transactions with owners
Share acquisitions less sales — — (87) — (87)
Share-based payments — — 270 — 270
Dividends paid (note 12) — — (10,792) — (10,792)
Balance at 31 December 2014 633 51,045 5,068 2,219 58,965
The notes on pages 63 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 63
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been applied consistently to all periods presented.
1.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For the Group statement of comprehensive income, in addition to the results presented in accordance with IFRS, the Board has also 
disclosed information on what it regards as the underlying performance of the business. This presentation reflects the information 
which the Board uses to determine performance when making operating and strategic decisions for the business.
The Group is profitable and it is anticipated that this will continue. There is a high and continuing level of recurring revenue and high 
cash conversion is anticipated for the foreseeable future. The Group’s existing significant cash resources provide additional comfort 
that it will continue to be able to meet its bank term loan obligations of £1m per quarter.
After careful enquiry and review of available financial information, including projections of profitability and cash flows, the Directors 
believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate 
to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the consolidated and Company financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and of revenues and expenses. It also requires management 
to exercise its judgement in the application of accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Company or Group financial statements are disclosed in note 2.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is also the functional currency of the parent company. The financial 
statements are presented in round thousands.
1.2 Parent company statement of comprehensive income
As permitted by Section 408 Companies Act 2006, the parent company has not presented its own statement of comprehensive 
income. The profit of the parent company for the year was £15,211,000 (2013: profit of £8,407,000).
1.3 Changes in accounting policy and disclosure
a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments for the first time. Unless otherwise stated, they have not had 
a material impact on the financial statements:
• Amendments to IAS 32: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. 
• Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27).
• Transition Guidance (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12).
The consolidation suite of standards, being IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 were adopted early in previous periods.
b) Adopted IFRS not yet applied 
The following Adopted IFRSs have been issued but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements. 
Their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements unless otherwise indicated:
• Annual improvement cycles 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2015).
• IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 64
1. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
1.3 Changes in accounting policy and disclosure continued
b) Adopted IFRS not yet applied continued
•  Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer plants (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IAS 27: Equity method in separate financial statements (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Annual improvement cycles 2012-2014 (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2017). This standard may affect 
the accounting for certain contracts and will impose greater disclosure requirements on all companies. The Group is currently 
considering the impact of this standard.
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2018). This standard will determine a new framework 
for the measurement of financial instruments. The Group is currently considering the impact of this standard.
1.4 Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements consolidate those of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December 2014. 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities that the Company has power over, exposure or rights to variable returns and an ability to use its power to 
affect those returns. The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
net assets on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. 
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the 
separable identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities incurred or assumed at the acquisition date is recorded as purchased goodwill. 
Provision is made for any impairment. Accounting policies previously applied by acquired subsidiaries are changed as necessary 
to comply with accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated 
on consolidation. 
In the parent company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost and are tested for impairment when there 
is objective evidence of impairment. Any such impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the period they occur. 
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, 
through participation in financial and operating policy decisions. 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake economic activities that are subject 
to “joint control”, which means that the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the relevant activities require 
the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are recognised in the Group financial statements using the equity method of accounting 
and initially carried in the balance sheet at cost. The carrying value of investments (including any goodwill) is tested for impairment 
when there is objective evidence of impairment and is stated net of any impairment loss. The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits 
or losses is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves 
is recognised in reserves. Unrealised gains and losses on Group transactions with the associates are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the associate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 65
1. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
1.5 Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. 
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating and 
geographical segments, has been identified as the parent company Board of Directors. 
1.6 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the right to the consideration received or receivable for goods sold and services provided 
in the normal course of business during the year. Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount can be reliably measured and when it is probable that future economic benefits 
will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities, as described below:
• Revenue from licences, maintenance & software support and other support services is recognised on a straight line basis over 
the period of supply. Licence fees forming part of long-term software installation contracts (principally within the Secondary 
& Specialist Care segment), are spread over the implementation phase of these contracts, according to the hours worked 
on the implementation, to best represent the period over which the vendor obligations are satisfied.
• Revenue from hosting services, principally under the General Practitioner Systems of Choice (GPSoC) contract, is recognised as follows:
– Provision of infrastructure and hardware – in line with the anticipated life of the related assets as capitalised within property, 
plant and equipment.
– Other services are recognised over the period of supply or when delivered as appropriate.
• Revenue from hardware sales is recognised when ownership passes.
• Revenue from training, consultancy and system implementations is recognised when delivery to a customer has occurred with no 
significant vendor obligations remaining and where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable. In instances 
where a significant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has been satisfied. For long-term 
software installation contracts (principally within the Secondary & Specialist Care segment), revenue is recognised according 
to the stage of completion.
Invoices raised in advance of the provision of services to customers are recorded on the balance sheet as deferred income, 
within current liabilities.
Where Group recognition criteria have been met but no invoice to the customer has been raised at the reporting date, 
revenue is recognised and included as an accrued income, within trade and other receivables.
1.7 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary compared with the fair value at the date of acquisition 
of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill does not have a finite life and is not subject to amortisation. It is reviewed annually 
for impairment and whenever there is an indication that there may be impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are 
expected to benefit from the business combination and which represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill 
is monitored for internal management purposes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 66
1. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
1.7 Intangible assets continued
(b) Computer software developed internally
Expenditure on software development is capitalised as an intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, 
‘Intangible Assets’, requiring it to be probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured 
reliably. To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of completing 
the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale. 
The costs incurred in the development stage for substantially new or enhanced products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and 
considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those criteria. These costs are generally incurred in developing the detailed 
product design, software configuration and interfaces, in the coding of software, in its integration with hardware, and in its testing.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental improvements in existing products, remedial work and other maintenance 
activity does not qualify for recognition as an intangible asset.
Where a product is technically feasible, production and sales are intended, a market exists, and sufficient resources are available 
to complete the project, development costs (including only direct employee costs) are capitalised and subsequently amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, reflecting the pattern of the expected future economic benefits. Where these 
conditions are not met, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The estimated useful 
life for development expenditure is between four and eight years, based on the anticipated conditions in the market from which 
economic benefits are expected to be derived for each unique software product.
c) Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value. Other intangible assets are initially 
recognised at cost. Intangible assets are subsequently stated at this value less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses.
Amortisation is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life 
of the asset, as shown below:
Computer software purchased externally  4–6 years
Computer software acquired on business combinations 4–8 years
Customer relationships acquired on business combinations 10–15 years
1.8 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment acquired with subsidiary companies are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition. Other 
additions are recognised at purchase cost. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land 
to write assets down to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives at the following annual rates:
Freehold property  2% straight-line
Leasehold property over life of lease (between 20% and 33% straight-line)
Computer equipment 25%–33% straight-line 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 25% reducing balance
Motor vehicles 20% straight-line
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 67
1. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
1.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill 
At each year end, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset, or its cash-generating unit, exceeds the asset’s 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised as an expense. 
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
1.10 Taxation
The taxation expense charged in the Group statement of comprehensive income represents the sum of the current tax expense 
and the deferred tax expense.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from accounting profit as reported in the 
Group statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group liability for current tax is measured using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which 
affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled 
based upon tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited 
in the Group statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities 
and the deferred tax relates to income tax levied by the same tax authorities on either: 
• the same taxable entity; or
• different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise and settle them 
simultaneously in each future period when the significant deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. 
1.11 Leasing
Operating lease annual rentals are charged in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term 
of each lease. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 68
1. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
1.12 Share-based payments 
The Group operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees. The cost of equity-settled share-based payments 
is measured at fair value at the date of grant, excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The cost is recognised 
in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with the corresponding amount 
credited to equity, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. The estimate of the level of vesting is 
reviewed annually and the charge is adjusted accordingly in respect of non-market based vesting conditions. The fair values are 
measured using the Black Scholes and Monte Carlo models. 
1.13 Retirement benefit costs 
The costs charged in the financial statements represent contributions payable by the Group during the period into publicly or privately 
administered defined contribution pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually 
paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
1.14 Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date 
are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
to the Group’s presentational currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses 
of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are taken directly 
to the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation 
reserve is reclassified to the statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
1.15 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is based upon estimated selling price less 
further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items.
1.16 Own shares held in trust
The shares in the Company held by The EMIS Group plc Employee Benefits Trust are treated as treasury shares, stated at weighted 
average cost and presented as a reduction of shareholders’ equity (see note 25). Gains and losses on transactions in the Company’s 
own shares are taken directly to equity. 
1.17 Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
(a) Financial assets
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold and services provided in the ordinary course of business. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when the carrying value 
of the receivable exceeds the present value of the future cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 69
1. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
1.17 Financial Instruments continued
(a) Financial assets continued
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recorded at cost in the Company balance sheet. They are tested 
for impairment when there is objective evidence of impairment. Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement 
in the period they occur.
Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and at bank. There are no bank 
deposits with maturity dates of more than three months.
(b) Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year. Trade payables are recognised 
initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Bank and other borrowings
Bank and other loans are recorded initially at their fair value, net of issue costs. Issue costs are charged to the Group statement 
of comprehensive income over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount. Such instruments are 
subsequently carried at their amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received.
1.18 Dividends 
Interim dividends are recognised as distributions in the accounts when paid. Final dividends are recognised in the accounts 
in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Accounting estimates and judgements are made and continually evaluated based on past experience together with expectations 
relating to future events that are believed to be reasonable at the present time. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making 
these estimates and judgements, actual outcomes could be different. The critical estimates, assumptions and judgements made 
in arriving at the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Business combinations 
The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of assets 
acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. Judgements and estimates are made in relation to the 
fair value allocation of the purchase price.
Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets acquired
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets acquired are reviewed for impairment at least annually and are based on the 
net present value of projected cash flows for each cash-generating unit (CGU). Cash flows are discounted using an appropriate pre-tax 
cost of capital for each CGU. Judgements are made in calculating the value in use, and ongoing appropriateness, of the CGU’s. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 70
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued
Revenue recognition
The key area of judgement in respect of recognising revenue is the timing of recognition, specifically in relation to deferral 
of revenues that are invoiced and paid in advance of services being provided. Details are set out in note 1.6.
Development costs 
The key areas of judgement are in determining whether the expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation and the useful life 
over which this expenditure is amortised. Expenditure is only capitalised if it meets the criteria set out in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’, 
details are set out in note 1.7.(b). Useful lives are based on management estimates of the period over which assets are expected 
to generate revenue. These estimates are reviewed periodically for continued appropriateness. Changes to estimates can result 
in variations in carrying values and amounts charged to the Group statement of comprehensive income from period to period. 
3. Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to financial risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and price risk. The Group 
manages these risks through an effective risk management programme that seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on 
the Group’s performance. 
Exposure to financial risks is monitored by the finance/administration department under policies approved by the Board. 
An assessment of the risks is provided to the Board at regular intervals and is discussed to ensure that the risk mitigation 
procedures are compliant with Group policy and that any new risks are appropriately managed.
Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables, which are stated net of allowances for any estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. However, this risk is mitigated by payment being received in advance for a significant proportion 
of goods and services provided.
There is some concentration of risk, as the Group trades extensively with various parties within the National Health Service. 
However, the Group has longstanding relationships with its large number of end users and in addition to the normal credit 
management processes, the nature of these relationships assist management in controlling its credit risk.
Credit risk also arises on cash and cash equivalents placed with the Group’s banks. The Group monitors the financial standing 
of any institution with which it deposits cash.
Liquidity risk
Management controls and monitors the Group’s cash flow on a regular basis, including forecasting future cash flows, to ensure 
that it has sufficient financial resources to meet the obligations of the Group as they fall due. 
A detailed analysis of Group debt together with the maturity profile is disclosed in notes 22 and 23.
Interest rate risk
The Company has exposure to interest rate risk in relation to its bank debt amounting to £18.8m. Details of the interest rates and 
repayment terms are disclosed in note 22. The Group’s cash generation is sufficient to enable it to pay down the bank debt rapidly 
in the event of any significant adverse movement in interest rates.
The Group’s current assets include cash and cash equivalents at the year end amounting to £6.9m, on which interest received 
is subject to fluctuations in market rates.
Price risk
As a significant proportion of the Group’s revenues are secured under framework agreements or other long-term contracts, it has only 
limited exposure to price risk other than at the point of renegotiation of these frameworks or contracts. Where these negotiations 
are material, the Group, including the Board, is fully engaged with the process in order to secure the best possible outcome.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 71
3. Financial risk management continued
3.2 Capital risk management 
The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Group’s total equity, including non-controlling interests.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
• to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to investors 
and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital;
• to provide an adequate return to shareholders based on the level of risk undertaken;
• to have financial resources available to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits and returns 
to shareholders and other stakeholders; and
• to maintain financial resources sufficient to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group is profitable and has high cash conversion and a low level of indebtedness. As a result, capital risk is not significant for 
the Group and measurement of capital management is not a tool currently used in the internal management reporting procedures 
of the Group.
The Group’s reserves include:
Own shares held in trust – an Employee Benefit Trust holds shares in the Company to facilitate share-based emolument payments 
and the Group’s Share Incentive Plan.
Other reserve – comprises a translation reserve of foreign exchange differences from the translation of the financial statements 
of overseas operations and other reserves related to merger reliefs taken under UK law.
4. Operating segments
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ provides for segmental information disclosure on the basis of information reported internally to the 
chief operating decision-maker for decision-making purposes. The Group considers that this role is performed by the main Board.
The Group has three operating segments, all involved with the supply and support of software and related services:
(a) Primary & Community Care;
(b) Community Pharmacy; and
(c) Secondary & Specialist Care (including the Indigo 4 and Medical Imaging businesses acquired during the year).
Each operating segment is assessed by the Board based on a measure of adjusted operating profit. This measurement basis 
excludes exceptional items, the effect of capitalisation and amortisation of development costs, and the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets as the Board considers this to provide the best measure of underlying performance. Group operating expenses, 
finance income and costs, cash and cash equivalents and bank loans are not allocated to segments, as Group and financing 
activities are not segment-specific. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 72
4. Operating segments continued
Segmental information
2014 2013 Restated
Primary & Secondary & Primary & Secondary &
Community Community Specialist Community Community Specialist
Care Pharmacy Care Total Care Pharmacy Care Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segmental result
Revenue 89,708 18,386 29,545 137,639 80,065 16,980 8,497 105,542
Segmental operating profit 
as reported internally 26,450 3,853 3,430 33,733 22,159 3,869 822 26,850
Development costs capitalised 3,978 784 1,761 6,523 5,271 22 805 6,098
Amortisation of development costs (4,248) — (397) (4,645) (1,836) — (40) (1,876)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (1,110) (736) (4,423) (6,269) (2,076) (851) (1,271) (4,198)
Segmental operating profit 25,070 3,901 371 29,342 23,518 3,040 316 26,874
Group operating expenses   (1,094)   (785) 
Exceptional transaction costs   —   (1,144) 
Release of contingent 
acquisition consideration (note 31) 873 —
Operating profit 29,121 24,945
Net finance costs (543) (242)
Share of result of associate (55) 20
Share of result of joint venture 17 (88)
Profit before taxation 28,540 24,635
Segmental assets and liabilities
Segmental assets as reported internally 38,046 4,145 12,249 54,440 36,261 2,327 8,873 47,461
Goodwill and other intangible assets 43,800 10,798 84,799 139,397 43,572 10,768 72,128 126,468
 81,846 14,943 97,048 193,837 79,833 13,095 81,001 173,929
Group assets 155 28
Investment in joint venture and associates 2,705 2,760
Group cash and cash equivalents 6,939 4,167
Total assets 203,636 180,884
Segmental liabilities as 
reported internally (38,101) (6,872) (19,230) (64,203) (34,587) (5,932) (15,288) (55,807)
Group liabilities (5,769) (3,296)
Group bank loans (18,756) (17,658)
Total liabilities (88,728) (76,761)
Other segmental information
Capital expenditure 5,353 334 1,186 6,873 8,247 60 96 8,403
Depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment 7,165 168 433 7,766 6,186 203 138 6,527
Computer software purchased externally 1,765 — — 1,765 489 35 — 524
Amortisation of computer 
software purchased externally 430 17 — 447 147 15 — 162
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 73
4. Operating segments continued
Segmental information continued
Revenue excludes intra-group transactions on normal commercial terms from the Primary & Community Care segment to the Community 
Pharmacy segment totalling £3,692,000 (2013: £3,073,000), from the Primary & Community Care segment to the Secondary & Specialist 
Care segment totalling £456,000 (2013: £nil), and from the Secondary & Specialist Care segment to the Primary & Community Care 
segment totalling £69,000 (2013: £nil).
Revenue of £98,939,000 (2013: £75,884,000) is derived from the NHS and related bodies.
Revenue of £5,421,000 (2013: £3,182,000) is derived from customers outside the United Kingdom. Non-current assets held outside 
the UK total £21,000 (2013: £29,000).
Exceptional transaction costs relate to professional fees incurred in the business acquisitions made during the prior year.
5. Revenue
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Licences 43,850 40,000
Maintenance and software support 33,438 17,682
Hosting 13,968 14,281
Hardware 7,897 6,929
Training, consultancy and implementation 16,918 12,142
Other support services 21,568 14,508
137,639 105,542
6. Operating profit
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
The following have been included in arriving at operating profit:
Research and development expenditure 16,750 11,136
Development expenditure capitalised (6,523) (6,098)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
– depreciation of owned assets 7,766 6,527
Amortisation of intangible assets
– purchased computer software 447 162
– internally developed computer software 4,645 1,876
– arising on business combinations 6,269 4,198
Operating lease rentals
– land and buildings 644 407
– plant and equipment 31 38
The total research and development cost shown above of £16,750,000 (2013: £11,136,000) consists of the direct salary and national 
insurance costs of relevant staff. Software development costs amounting to £6,523,000 (2013: £6,098,000) have been capitalised 
in accordance with the criteria set out in IAS 38. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 74
6. Operating profit continued
Total fees payable by the Group during the year to KPMG LLP in respect of the audit and other services provided were as follows:
2014 2013
KPMG KPMG Baker Tilly
£’000 £’000 £’000
Audit of these financial statements 25 25 —
Amounts payable to the Company’s auditor and associated companies  
in respect of:
– Audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 109 92 13
– Tax compliance services 42 41 13
– Other tax advisory services 48 38 —
– All other services 18 186 10
242 382 36
7. Finance income
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Bank interest 10 20
10 20
8. Finance costs
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Bank loan interest 455 229
Amortisation of bank loan issue costs 98 33
553 262
9. Employees
2014 2013
Number Number
The average monthly number of people (including Directors) employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
– management and administration 134 113
– software support and development 878 730
– sales, maintenance and training 504 445
– others 95 68
1,611 1,356
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 75
9. Employees continued
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Staff costs for above people:
– wages and salaries 57,105 43,035
– social security costs 5,833 4,618
– pension costs – defined contribution plans 1,828 462
– share incentive plan (note 26) 58 310
– share option expense (note 26) 270 195
65,094 48,620
Dealt with as follows:
– charged in Group statement of comprehensive income 58,571 42,522
– capitalised development costs 6,523 6,098
65,094 48,620
10. Income tax expense
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Income tax:
– current year tax charge 6,002 6,147
– adjustment in respect of prior years (225) —
Total current tax 5,777 6,147
Deferred tax:
– current year (58) (1,441)
Total deferred tax (58) (1,441)
Total tax charge in Group statement of comprehensive income 5,719 4,706
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
Profit before taxation 28,540 24,635
Taxation at the average UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 6,136 5,728
Tax effects of:
– expenses not allowable in determining taxable profit 61 60
– income not taxable in determining taxable profit (188) —
– research and development enhanced relief — (139)
– adjustment in respect of prior years (225) —
– other permanent items (73) —
– joint venture/associate reported net of tax 8 17
– deferred tax rate change — (960)
Tax charge for the year 5,719 4,706
The main rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 23% to 21% on 1 April 2014 and will reduce to 20% from 1 April 2015. The impact 
of this on the deferred tax balances of the Group was included in the tax charge in the prior year. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 76
11. Earnings per share (“EPS”)
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following earnings and numbers of shares:
2014 2013
Earnings £’000 £’000
Basic earnings attributable to equity holders 22,144 19,391
Exceptional transaction costs — 1,144
Release of contingent acquisition consideration (873) —
Development costs capitalised (6,523) (6,098)
Amortisation of development costs and acquired intangible assets 10,914 6,074
Tax and non-controlling interest effect of above items (870) (287)
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders 24,792 20,224
2014 2013
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares ’000 ’000
Total shares in issue 63,311 59,946
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (557) (506)
For basic EPS calculations 62,754 59,440
Effect of potentially dilutive share options 187 114
For diluted EPS calculations 62,941 59,554
2014 2013
Earnings per share Pence Pence
Basic 35.3 32.6
Adjusted 39.5 34.0
Basic diluted 35.2 32.6
Adjusted diluted 39.4 34.0
12. Dividends
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Final dividend for the year to 31 December 2012 of 7.1p — 4,120
Interim dividend for the year to 31 December 2013 of 8.0p — 5,026
Final dividend for the year to 31 December 2013 of 8.0p 5,030 —
Interim dividend for the year to 31 December 2014 of 9.2p 5,762 —
10,792 9,146
A final dividend for the year to 31 December 2014 of 9.2p amounting to approximately £5,767,000 will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting on 29 April 2015. If approved, this dividend will be paid on 1 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 10 April 2015. 
The dividend is not accounted for as a liability in these financial statements and will be accounted for as an appropriation of revenue 
reserves in the year to 31 December 2015.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 77
13. Goodwill
Group £’000
As at 1 January 2013 21,951
Acquisition of businesses 38,184
As at 31 December 2013 (as previously reported) 60,135
Measurement period adjustment (note 31) (871)
As at 31 December 2013 (restated) 59,264
Acquisition of businesses (note 31) 9,313
As at 31 December 2014 68,577
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) as follows:
2013
2014 Restated
£’000 £’000
Primary & Community Care 15,853 15,853
Community Pharmacy 6,756 6,756
Secondary & Specialist Care: Digital Healthcare 2,470 2,470
Secondary & Specialist Care: Ascribe 37,390 34,185
Secondary & Specialist Care: Medical Imaging 6,108 —
68,577 59,264
Impairment tests for goodwill
Each allocation is tested annually for impairment and, to confirm that no impairment of the goodwill is necessary, management 
has compared the carrying value to the value in use. Goodwill generated from the Medical Imaging acquisition in the year has not 
yet been tested for impairment, but will be tested at the next annual assessment date.
The value in use for each allocation of the existing goodwill has been calculated using internal Group budgets for the year ending 
31 December 2015 to forecast pre-tax cash flows from each CGU. These cash flows have then been extrapolated for a further four years 
assuming average annual growth rates of 3.5% for EMIS (2013: 3.5%), 3.5% for Rx Systems (2013: 4.0%), and 3.5% for both Digital 
Healthcare and Ascribe (2013: not applicable) until 31 December 2019 and then 1% for all CGUs in perpetuity. The pre-tax cash flows 
have been discounted back to 31 December 2014 using a discount rate of 9.1% in relation to EMIS (2013: 9%), 10.1% for Rx Systems 
(2013: 13%), and 10.1% for both Digital Healthcare and Ascribe (2013: not applicable). The exercise has confirmed that there has been 
no impairment. Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions which indicated that no reasonably possible change 
to key assumptions would cause an impairment. The Ascribe CGU has a value in use which exceeds its carrying value by £17.4m. 
The impairment calculation in this case is most sensitive to changes in 2015 forecast revenue and to the discount factor applied; 
for example, a 2.8 percentage point increase in the discount factor may lead to an impairment. The Board believes that any 
reasonably possible reduction in revenue would be mitigated by cost reduction programmes within the CGU. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 78
14. Other intangible assets
Computer
Computer Computer software
software software acquired on
purchased developed business Customer
externally internally combinations relationships Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2013 521 16,039 8,797 18,864 44,221
Additions 524 6,098 25,327 10,653 42,602
At 31 December 2013 1,045 22,137 34,124 29,517 86,823
Additions 1,765 6,523 1,093 5,596 14,977
At 31 December 2014 2,810 28,660 35,217 35,113 101,800
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 56 779 6,760 5,788 13,383
Charged in year 162 1,876 2,498 1,700 6,236
At 31 December 2013 218 2,655 9,258 7,488 19,619
Charged in year 447 4,645 3,744 2,525 11,361
At 31 December 2014 665 7,300 13,002 10,013 30,980
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 2,145 21,360 22,215 25,100 70,820
At 31 December 2013 827 19,482 24,866 22,029 67,204
At 1 January 2013 465 15,260 2,037 13,076 30,838
The accounting policy for intangible assets is set out in note 1.7. The remaining average amortisation period for software developed 
internally is four years (2013: five years). At 31 December 2014 software acquired on business combinations had a remaining 
amortisation period of seven years for both Ascribe and Digital Healthcare. The amortisation period for software acquired during 
the year with Indigo 4 Systems is five years. Customer relationships have a remaining amortisation period of nine years 
(2013: ten years) for EMIS, six years (2013: seven years) for Rx Systems, and nine years for both Ascribe and Digital Healthcare. 
The amortisation period for customer relationships acquired during the year from the Indigo 4 Systems and Medical Imaging 
acquisitions is ten years.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 79
15. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures.
Land and Computer fittings and Motor
buildings equipment equipment vehicles Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2013 6,579 20,611 2,202 5,249 34,641
Additions 1,753 5,799 219 632 8,403
Acquisition of businesses 208 561 44 — 813
Disposals — (35) (14) (793) (842)
Exchange differences (4) (12) (4) — (20)
At 31 December 2013 8,536 26,924 2,447 5,088 42,995
Additions 1,140 3,980 650 1,103 6,873
Acquisition of businesses 22 136 455 146 759
Disposals — (3) — (1,043) (1,046)
At 31 December 2014 9,698 31,037 3,552 5,294 49,581
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 512 9,695 884 1,406 12,497
Charged in year 266 4,847 260 1,154 6,527
On disposals — (35) (14) (574) (623)
Exchange differences (3) (10) (3) — (16)
At 31 December 2013 775 14,497 1,127 1,986 18,385
Charged in year 299 5,860 405 1,202 7,766
On disposals — — — (883) (883)
At 31 December 2014 1,074 20,357 1,532 2,305 25,268
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 8,624 10,680 2,020 2,989 24,313
At 31 December 2013 7,761 12,427 1,320 3,102 24,610
At 1 January 2013 6,067 10,916 1,318 3,843 22,144
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets (“contract assets”) allocated to the data centre hosting services contract 
(see note 2 for further details) with an original cost of £18,317,000 (2013: £18,006,000) and accumulated depreciation of £13,651,000 
(2013: £9,910,000), including depreciation of £3,761,000 (2013: £3,241,000) charged in other operating expenses in the year. The net 
book value of these assets amounts to £4,666,000 (2013: £8,096,000).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 80
16. Investments in subsidiaries
Company £’000
As at 1 January 2013 48,165 
Acquisition of businesses 23,076
As at 31 December 2013 (as previously reported) 71,241
Measurement period adjustment (note 31) (871)
As at 31 December 2013 (restated) 70,370
Acquisition of businesses (note 31) 12,000
As at 31 December 2014 82,370
Details of the principal subsidiary companies, included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group, are as follows:
Country of %
registration of issued ordinary
and operation shares held
Egton Medical Information Systems Limited (EMIS) England 100*
Rx Systems Limited England 78.9*
Digital Healthcare Limited England 100*
Digital Healthcare Inc. USA 100
Ascribe Group Limited England 100*
Scroll Bidco Limited England 100
Ascribe Limited England 100
Ascribe Holdings Limited England 100
ASC Computer Software PTY Limited Australia 100
Indigo 4 Systems Limited England 100
Medical Imaging UK Limited England 100*
MIDRSS Limited Republic of Ireland 100*
* Held directly by EMIS Group plc.
The above subsidiary undertakings are engaged in providing software and support services to the healthcare market, with 
the exception of Ascribe Group Limited, Scroll Bidco Limited and Ascribe Holdings Limited which are all holding companies.
17. Investment in joint venture and associates
Associates
2014 2013
Group £’000 £’000
Associates
As at 1 January 2,760 2,740
Share of result for year (55) 20
As at 31 December 2,705 2,760
The results above relate to Pharmacy 2U Limited (P2U), an unlisted company incorporated in the UK in which the Group has a 20% 
ownership and voting interest. The principal activity of P2U is the operation of an internet mail order pharmacy.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 81
17. Investment in joint venture and associates continued
Associates continued
Aggregate amounts relating to P2U are as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Revenues 17,286 16,589
(Loss)/profit before taxation (612) 117
(Loss)/profit after taxation (598) 100
Attributable to NCI (120) 20
Attributable to investee's shareholders (478) 80
Non-current assets 3,246 2,748
Current assets 3,760 3,697
Current liabilities (3,604) (3,014)
Non-current liabilities (569) —
Net assets 2,833 3,431
Attributable to NCI 566 686
Attributable to investee's shareholders 2,267 2,745
Groups interest in net assets at beginning of year 686 666
Total comprehensive income attributable to the Group (120) 20
Group's interest in net assets of investee at end of year 566 686
Adjustment in respect of prior years 65 —
Goodwill 2,074 2,074
Carrying amount of interest in investee at end of year 2,705 2,760
Adjustments in respect of prior years relate to the use of reliable estimates in the calculation of the P2U results arising from the differing 
year ends of the Group and the investee.
Joint venture
Healthcare Gateway Limited (HGL) is a joint venture formed with In Practice Systems Limited. Its purpose is to enable the sharing 
of patient data via a medical interoperability gateway. 
The Group has a 50% interest in the ordinary share capital of HGL, acquired on formation for £1. The venture has to date been 
funded by loans from each joint venture party and at 31 December 2014 the Group is owed £181,000 (2013: £373,000).
Aggregate amounts relating to HGL are as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Revenues 822 404
Profit/(loss) before taxation 42 (231)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 33 (176)
Current assets 571 562
Current liabilities (995) (1,012)
Net liabilities (424) (450)
Group's interest in net assets of investee at beginning of year (225) (137)
Share of total comprehensive income 17 (88)
Group's interest in net assets of investee at end of year (208) (225)
The Group’s interest in net assets of the investee is offset against amounts owing from the investee in the Group balance sheet. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 82
18. Inventories
2014 2013
Group £’000 £’000
Finished goods 1,550 1,431
19. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 13,389 12,031 — —
Prepayments and accrued income 15,343 9,417 151 17
Loan to Employee Benefits Trust — — 4,122 2,379
Income tax — — — 277
28,732 21,448 4,273 2,673
20. Credit quality of financial assets
The amounts of the maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date are as follows:
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 13,389 12,031 — —
Cash at bank 6,939 4,167 — —
20,328 16,198 — —
No collateral security is held.
Trade and other receivables
Reporting date balances fall within the following categories:
Group
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
UK governmental health bodies 5,670 6,577
Community pharmacies and associated wholesalers 2,956 926
Other third party receivables 4,763 4,528
13,389 12,031
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 83
20. Credit quality of financial assets continued
Trade and other receivables continued
Trade and other receivables are mainly due one month following the date of the invoice. At the reporting date the aged analysis 
of trade and other receivables is as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
December 7,865 7,280
November 1,952 2,050
October and earlier 3,572 2,701
13,389 12,031
The Group carries a provision for impairment of trade receivables of £392,000 (2013: £327,000).
Cash at bank
The Moody’s long-term credit ratings and balances are as follows:
Group
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
A1 198 —
A2 628 1,585
A3 1,093 268
Aa2 502 479
Aa3 100 190
Baa1 798 —
Baa2 1,091 1,645
Ba1 84 —
Caa2 2,445 —
6,939 4,167
21. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables 7,496 6,808 22 —
Accrued expenses 7,273 5,561 335 172
Other tax and social security 6,013 4,336 — —
20,782 16,705 357 172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 84
22. Borrowings
2014 2013
Company and Group £’000 £’000
Non-current
Unsecured bank loans 5,854 9,756
5,854 9,756
Current
Unsecured bank loans 12,902 7,902
12,902 7,902
Bank loans comprises £10,000,000 of term loan; £9,000,000 drawndown under a revolving credit facility; and £244,000 of unamortised 
arrangement fees. All bank loans bear an interest rate of 1.50% above LIBOR.
The term loan is repayable by equal quarterly instalments of £1,000,000, with a final maturity date of 30 June 2017. The revolving 
credit facility is committed until 30 June 2017. At 31 December 2014 £7,000,000 of this facility was undrawn.
The financial covenants in place for these facilities are: EBITA interest cover; net debt to adjusted EBITDA senior leverage; and cash 
flow to senior debt cash flow cover.
Excluding unamortised arrangement fees the non-current borrowings of £6,000,000 (2013: £10,000,000) are estimated to have 
a fair value of £6,053,000 (2013: £10,004,000), based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate of 2.1% 
(2013: 2.01%).
The fair value of current borrowings approximates to their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
23. Liquidity risk
The following are the contractual maturities of the Group’s borrowings, including estimated interest payments:
Carrying Contractual Less than
amount cash flow 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2014
Trade and other payables due within one year (20,782) (20,782) (20,782) — — —
External borrowings (18,756) (19,304) (13,194) (4,094) (2,016) —
Contingent acquisition consideration (5,250) (5,250) (2,750) (2,500) — —
(44,788) (45,336) (36,726) (6,594) (2,016) —
At 31 December 2013 (restated)
Trade and other payables due within one year (16,705) (16,705) (16,705) — — —
External borrowings (17,658) (18,569) (8,281) (4,178) (4,094) (2,016)
Contingent acquisition consideration (3,123) (3,123) (2,129) — — (994)
(37,486) (38,397) (27,115) (4,178) (4,094) (3,010)
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 85
24. Deferred tax
Property Other
plant and Intangible temporary
equipment assets differences Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2013 (562) (6,986) — (7,548)
Credited to statement of comprehensive income 357 1,059 25 1,441
Credited to equity — — 6 6
Acquisition of businesses 131 (7,196) 1,687 (5,378)
Exchange differences — — (2) (2)
At 31 December 2013 (74) (13,123) 1,716 (11,481)
Credited to statement of comprehensive income 596 878 (1,416) 58
Credited to equity — — 52 52
Acquisition of businesses — (1,338) — (1,338)
At 31 December 2014 522 (13,583) 352 (12,709)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for financial reporting purposes:
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities (14,072) (13,594)
Deferred tax assets 1,363 2,113
(12,709) (11,481)
25. Share capital and share premium
Share
premium
£’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each
Company and Group Number £’000
At 1 January 2013 58,550,017 586 24,767
Shares issued in the year 4,761,379 47 26,278
At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 63,311,396 633 51,045
All issued shares are fully paid. At 31 December 2014 the EMIS Group plc Employee Benefit Trust held 636,832 shares in the Company 
(2013: 446,960 shares). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 86
26. Share-based payments
At 31 December 2014 outstanding awards to subscribe for ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company, granted in accordance 
with the rules of the EMIS Group share option schemes and the EMIS Group LTIP, were as follows:
At 1 January At 1 January At 31 December
Date of grant 2013 Granted Lapsed 2014 Granted Lapsed Exercised 2014
2011 Share Option Plan
11 October 2011 63,855  — (1,419)  62,436 — (11,352) (28,380) 22,704
1 October 2012 42,130  — (2,461)  39,669 — (5,843) — 33,826
2 May 2013 —  5,476  —  5,476 — (1,369) — 4,107
18 October 2013 —  99,060  —  99,060 — (9,906) — 89,154
15 October 2014 — — — — 54,918 (1,356) — 53,562
 105,985  104,536 (3,880)  206,641 54,918 (29,826) (28,380) 203,353
Weighted average exercise price 641p 660p 708p 649p 737p 645p 528p 690p
Unapproved Option Scheme
11 October 2011 12,298  —  —  12,298 — (8,514) (3,784) —
1 October 2012 65,500  — (6,000)  59,500 — (7,000) — 52,500
18 October 2013 —  138,000  —  138,000 — (17,000) — 121,000
 77,798  138,000 (6,000)  209,798 — (32,514) (3,784) 173,500
Weighted average exercise price 767p 656p 812p 693p — 656p 528p 703p
EMIS Group LTIP
29 June 2012 400,000  —  —  400,000 — (400,000) — —
2 May 2013 —  50,000  —  50,000 — — — 50,000
16 January 2014 —  —  —  — 49,019 — — 49,019
1 May 2014 —  —  —  — 314,350 (21,950) — 292,400
 400,000  50,000  —  450,000 363,369 (421,950) — 391,419
Weighted average exercise price 547p 710p — 565p nil 519p — 91p
The number of vested options which had not been exercised at 31 December 2014 was 22,704 (2013: nil). The weighted-average 
share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in 2014 was £8.05 (2013: no options exercised).
The parent company operates share option schemes, (the HMRC approved EMIS Group plc 2011 Share Option Plan and the EMIS Group plc 
Unapproved Option Scheme) and an LTIP scheme. Tranches of options have been granted at market value to senior members of 
management under the 2011 Share Option Plan, the Unapproved Option Scheme and the 2012 and 2013 LTIP schemes, and at nil 
cost under the 2014 LTIP schemes. Performance conditions apply to the 2014 award under the 2011 Share Option Plan, the 2012 
and 2013 awards under the Unapproved Option Scheme and the EMIS Group LTIP.
Options are conditional on the employee completing three years’ service, other than in certain limited circumstances. The Group 
has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options for cash.
The key assumptions used in the valuations are shown below. The fair values of options with performance conditions have been 
determined using the Monte Carlo Model. The fair values of options without performance conditions have been determined using 
the Black Scholes Model.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 87
26. Share-based payments continued
 Unapproved Option Scheme
Grant date 11 October 2011 1 October 2012 18 October 2013
Exercise period October 2014 –
October 2016
June 2015 –
July 2016
July 2016 –
October 2018
Share price at grant date 528p 812p 656p
Exercise price 528p 812p 656p
Expected volatility 36% 30% 35%
Expected life (years) 3 3 3
Risk-free rate 2.75% 1.00% 1.40%
Expected dividend yield 2.35% 1.64% 2.20%
Fair value per option 109p 75p 89p
 LTIP
Grant date 29 June 2012 2 May 2013 16 January 2014 1 May 2014
Exercise period July 2015 –
July 2017
July 2015 –
July 2017
January 2017 May 2017
Share price at grant date 547p 710p 630p 635p
Exercise price 547p 710p 0p 0p
Expected volatility 30% 30% 35% 35%
Expected life (years) 4 3 3 3
Risk-free rate 1.00% 1.00% 2.37% 2.37%
Expected dividend yield 2.30% 1.90% 2.5% 2.5%
Fair value per option 85p 177p 584p 589p
2011 Share Option Plan
Grant date 11 October 2011 1 October 2012 2 May 2013 18 October 2013 15 October 2014
Exercise period October 2014 –
October 2016
October 2015 –
October 2017
May 2016 –
 May 2018
October 2016 –
October 2018
October 2017 –
October 2019
Share price at grant date 528p 812p 730p 656p 737p
Exercise price 528p 812p 730p 656p 737p
Expected volatility 36% 30% 35% 35% 35%
Expected life (years) 3 3 3 3 3
Risk-free rate 2.75% 1.00% 1.40% 1.40% 2.37%
Expected dividend yield 2.35% 1.64% 2.20% 2.20% 2.33%
Fair value per option 109p 153p 157p 141p 164p
The expected volatility assumption is based on statistical analysis of the historical volatility of the Company’s share price.
The Company also operates an HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan, which is open to all UK employees with at least one year’s service. 
Those joining contribute a maximum of £1,800 a year, or 10% of salary, whichever is smaller, which is used to acquire shares in the 
Company at market price from the EMIS Group plc Employee Benefits Trust, which holds shares in the Company to satisfy Share 
Incentive Plan and other employee share scheme requirements.
For every three shares acquired by an employee the Company adds one free “matching” share. The matching shares, together 
with any free shares allocated to members under the scheme during the year, had a value of £58,000 (2013: £310,000). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 88
27. Operating lease commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2014 2013
Group £’000 £’000
Land and buildings
– due within one year 599 607
– due between one and five years 732 1,174
Plant, machinery and motor vehicles
– due within one year 36 26
– due between one and five years 61 46
– due after five years 8 8
1,436 1,861
28. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2014 the Group had capital commitments in respect of motor vehicles and computer equipment amounting 
to £102,000 (2013: £125,000).
29. Cash generated from operations
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) before taxation 28,540 24,635 70 (1,942)
Finance income (10) (20) (838) —
Finance costs 553 262 553 12
Share of result of associate 55 (20) — —
Share of result of joint venture (17) 88 — —
Operating profit/(loss) 29,121 24,945 (215) (1,930)
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Amortisation of intangible assets 11,361 6,236 — —
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7,766 6,527 — —
Release of contingent acquisition consideration (873) — (873) —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (128) — — —
Share-based payments 270 195 37 —
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 47,517 37,903 (1,051) (1,930)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventory (119) (174) — —
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (6,912) 1,132 (135) (15)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 2,360 (177) 185 112
Increase/(decrease) in deferred income 2,010 41 — —
Cash generated from operations 44,856 38,725 (1,001) (1,833)
30. Change in net debt
2013 Cash flow Finance costs 2014
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 4,167 2,772 — 6,939
Bank loans due within one year (7,902) (5,000) — (12,902)
Bank loans due after one year (9,756) 4,000 (98) (5,854)
Net debt (13,491) 1,772 (98) (11,817)
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 89
31. Business combinations
On 16 July 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Indigo 4 Systems Limited, a leading provider of clinical and 
administrative messaging and order communications solutions to healthcare organisations. The transaction was consistent 
with the Group’s strategy of providing comprehensively connected healthcare systems.
On 22 December 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Medical Imaging (UK) Limited and MIDRSS Limited 
(together Medical Imaging), a leading provider of services delivering diabetic eye screening and ophthalmology imaging to the 
NHS in England and with a growing presence assisting Ireland’s national health service, the HSE. The acquisition was in line with 
the Group’s strategy of providing cross-organisational healthcare systems and further enhances its position in diabetic eye screening.
The provisional fair values of the net assets acquired, consideration paid and goodwill arising on these transactions are shown 
in the table below:
Indigo 4 Medical
Systems Imaging Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000
Goodwill 3,205 6,108 9,313
Intangible assets acquired:
– computer software 1,093 — 1,093
– customer relationships 1,987 3,609 5,596
Property, plant and equipment 54 705 759
Trade and other receivables 837 1,268 2,105
Cash and cash equivalents 2,818 2,530 5,348
Trade and other payables (699) (1,498) (2,197)
Deferred income (2,081) — (2,081)
Deferred tax (616) (722) (1,338)
Total net assets 6,598 12,000 18,598
Consideration:
Initial cash consideration 6,098 9,000 15,098
Contingent consideration 500 3,000 3,500
Total potential consideration 6,598 12,000 18,598
Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired (2,818) (2,530) (5,348)
Contingent consideration not yet paid — (3,000) (3,000)
Net cash cost of acquisition paid in year 3,780 6,470 10,250
Goodwill relates principally to the experienced staff within the businesses.
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities represent the best estimate of the fair values at the dates of acquisition. As permitted 
by IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’, these provisional amounts can be amended for a period of up to 12 months following 
acquisition if subsequent information becomes available which changes the estimates of fair values at the dates of acquisition.
Since acquisition the contribution of the acquired Indigo 4 business to Group revenue and Group adjusted operating profit has been 
£1,591,000 and £351,000. The results of Medical Imaging are not material to the year under review as the business was only acquired 
on 22 December 2014, immediately prior to the year end.
Had all acquisitions occurred on 1 January 2014 the revenue and adjusted operating profit for the year would have been: Indigo 4 
£3,004,000 and £720,000; and Medical Imaging £7,457,000 and £1,043,000.
Contingent consideration is all payable in cash and has been paid in full for the Indigo 4 acquisition. The Medical Imaging 
acquisition includes £500,000 deferred until December 2015 and up to £2,500,000 payable in cash on the attainment of certain 
performance targets relating to financial year 2016.
In relation to the acquisitions, costs of £175,000 have been expensed in the statement of comprehensive income. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 90
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014
31. Business combinations continued
In 2013, the Group provided for the full potential contingent consideration of £3,994,000 relating to the Ascribe acquisition. This 
contingent consideration was finalised during the year at £2,250,000 and paid in early 2015, with the release of the excess provision 
split between the statement of comprehensive income (£873,000) and a reduction in goodwill on the balance sheet (£871,000). 
2013 comparatives have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ to reflect the changes in the 
provisional consideration resulting from additional information concerning facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition 
date which, as such, have been classified as measurement-period adjustments. Goodwill in the prior period has therefore reduced 
by £871,000, with a corresponding decrease in the consideration liability.
32. Pension commitments
Pension contributions of £1,828,000 (2013: £462,000) represent contributions to various defined contribution schemes operated 
by the Group. The pension contributions include auto-enrolment of eligible employees across the Group from 1 January 2014.
33. Related party transactions
Key management compensation
Key management includes Executive and Non-executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Board. The compensation paid 
or payable to key management for employee services is shown below:
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 3,364 2,966
Post retirement benefits 206 154
3,570 3,120
2014 2013
Directors’ emoluments £’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments 962 995
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 75 49
1,037 1,044
Retirement benefits are accruing to two (2013: two) Directors under defined contribution personal pension schemes.
2014 2013
Highest paid Director £’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments 469 288
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 45 17
514 305
Other related party transactions
2014 2013
Transactions between the Group and: £’000 £’000
Associate – Pharmacy 2U Limited 
Sales of goods and services in year 34 29
Amounts owed at year end — —
Joint venture – Healthcare Gateway Limited
Sales of goods and services in year 467 373
Amounts owed by related party at year end 181 373
Key management personnel
Sale of motor vehicles at market value 9 — STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Internet
The Group operates a website which can be found at 
www.emis-online.com/investors. This site is regularly updated 
to provide information about the Group. In particular, the share 
price and all of the Group’s press releases and announcements 
can be found on the site. The annual report and accounts will be 
published on www.emis-online.com/investors. The maintenance 
and integrity of the website is the responsibility of the Directors. 
The auditor does not consider these matters.
Registrar
Any enquiries concerning your shareholding should be addressed 
to the Company’s registrar. The registrar should be notified promptly 
of any change in a shareholder’s address or other details: 
Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham BR3 4TU, tel: 0871 664 0300, lines are open 
8.30am to 5.30pm Monday–Friday. The registrar’s website is 
www.capitashareportal.com. This will give you access to your 
personal shareholding by means of your investor code which 
is printed on your share certificate or statement of holding. 
A user ID and password will be sent to you once you have 
registered on the site. 
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports 
about the Company. Details of any share dealing facilities that 
the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or 
on our website. More detailed information can be found at 
www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may find it more convenient to make arrangements to 
have dividends paid direct into their bank account. The advantages 
of this are that the dividend is credited to a shareholder’s bank 
account on the payment date, there is no need to present cheques 
for payment and there is no risk of cheques being lost in the 
post. To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing 
mandate, please contact Capita Registrars, our registrar, 
whose contact details appear on this page.
Share dealing services
The sale or purchase of shares must be done through a 
stockbroker or share dealing service provider. The London 
Stock Exchange provides a “Locate a broker” facility on its 
website which gives details of a number of companies offering 
share dealing services. For more information, please visit the 
private investors section at www.londonstockexchange.com. 
Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking 
to encourage shareholders to either buy or to sell shares. 
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are 
recommended to seek financial advice from an independent 
financial adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000.
Share price information
The latest information on the share price is available at 
www.emis-online.com/investors.
Shareholder information EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 92
Directors and advisers
Directors
Executive
Chris Spencer – Chief Executive Officer 
Peter Southby – Chief Financial Officer
Non-executive
Mike O’Leary – Chairman 
Robin Taylor – Senior Non-executive Director
Andy McKeon – Non-executive Director
Kevin Boyd – Non-executive Director (from 9 May 2014)
Company Secretary
Caroline Farbridge
Company number
06553923 (England and Wales)
Registered Office
Rawdon House 
Green Lane 
Yeadon 
Leeds LS19 7BY
Auditor
KPMG LLP
1 The Embankment 
Neville Street 
Leeds LS1 4DW
Nominated adviser and broker
Numis Securities Limited 
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London EC4M 7LT
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham BR3 4TU
Financial PR
MHP Communications
60 Great Portland Street 
London W1W 7RT
Legal advisers to the Company
Pinsent Masons LLP
1 Park Row 
Leeds LS1 5AB
Five year Group financial summary
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 137,639 105,542 86,333 73,238 61,900
Adjusted operating profit
1
32,639 26,065 22,820 20,769 18,223
Profit before tax 28,540 24,635 24,059 21,435 18,067
Earnings per share – basic 35.3p 32.6p 32.5p 25.4p 19.8p
Earnings per share – adjusted
1
39.5p 34.0p 30.8p 27.7p 21.8p
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders 11,529 10,056 8,237 7,248 6,554
Dividends per ordinary share 18.4p 16.0p 14.2p 12.4p 11.2p
Total equity 114,908 104,123 64,065 54,092 46,782
Cash generated from operations
2
38,333 32,627 27,402 27,083 20,212
Net (debt)/cash (11,817) (13,491) 7,711 8,026 1,678
Average number of employees 1,611 1,356 1,116 898 791
1. Excludes exceptional items, release of contingent consideration on acquisitions, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs and amortisation of acquired 
intangibles. EPS calculations also adjust for the related tax and non-controlling interest impact.
2. Stated after deduction of capitalised development costs.   EMIS Group plc
Registered Office 
Rawdon House 
Green Lane 
Yeadon 
Leeds LS19 7BY
Tel: 0113 380 3000 
www.emis-online.com
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
