 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Enterprise Inns plc
3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ
Tel: +44 (0)121 733 7700
Fax: +44 (0)121 733 6447
www.enterpriseinns.com
Enterprise Inns plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Master Robert Inn
Here is a selection of award-winning
Enterprise licensees who were 
recognised during the year for the quality of
their businesses and their outstanding
entrepreneurial skills:
Financial Highlights 1
Chairman’s Statement 2
Chief Executive’s Review (incorporating the business review) 3
Corporate Responsibility 9
Directors and Advisers 13
Directors’ Report 15
Corporate Governance 21
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
Group Income Statement 38
Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 39
Group Balance Sheet 40
Group Cash Flow Statement 41
Notes to the Group Accounts 42
Group Audit Report 90
Five Year Record 92
Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 93
Company Balance Sheet 94
Notes to the Company Accounts 95
Company Directors’ Responsibilities 115
Company Audit Report 116
Analysis of Shareholders 118
Financial Calendar 119
Shareholder Information 120
Notice of Annual General Meeting 121
Explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM 125
Contents
The Enterprise Inns Board
MASTER ROBERT INN, BURITON
WINNER – Rural pub of the Year 2006  Calor Gas
Pauline Davey and her partner Tim Smith took over the Master Robert
Inn in January 2005 and, working with the “Pub is the Hub” campaign,
have added to the business by transforming the function room into a
much valued post office and shop.
OLD WHITE BEARE, NORWOOD GREEN, WEST YORKSHIRE
WINNER – Village Pub of the Year 2006 Morning Advertiser
Pub Awards
Since taking over this pub last summer, Chris and Nick Green have
restored a neglected sixteenth Century pub to its former glory with
a major refurbishment. Following the introduction of new staff and a
successful PR campaign, the pub now attracts destination diners
whilst remaining at the heart of the village.
The Pack Horse
Old White Beare
YE OLD SUN INN, COLTON, NORTH YORKSHIRE 
WINNER — Pub Food innovation of the year 2006  
The Publican Food Awards
Since Ashley and Kelly McCarthy‘s arrival at the pub two
years ago, Ye Old Sun’s status has evolved from a good-
food venue into innovative gastropub. Head chef Ashley
grows his own range of herbs and vegetables to provide a
constant supply of fresh kitchen ingredients.  In addition,
an on-site delicatessen, with fresh bread baked daily, has
proved a major bonus for local residents.
Ye Old Sun Inn
INN ON THE GREEN, BRISTOL
WINNER – Bristol Pub of the Year 2006  CAMRA
Oliver Bainbridge’s transformation of this pub began in 2003. As well
as offering a distinctly upmarket food menu, the pub currently serves
a range of more than 10 different real ales and attracts a wide range
of clientele.
Inn on the Green
LION, TEDDINGTON
WINNER – London Pub of the Year CAMRA
Cask ale is the lifeblood of the Lion, where Don Witts and
Myfawny Williams maintain exceptional quality standards whilst
constantly reviewing and updating their mix of beer styles and
brands.
The Lion
THE PACK HORSE, HAYFIELD, DERBYSHIRE
WINNER – Best Pub 2006 Northern Hospitality Awards
REGIONAL WINNER – Gastro Pub of the Year 2006
Morning Advertiser Pub Awards
The Pack Horse was taken over by Suzy Turner and Andy Williams in
2003. After careful research and a major investment, the pub is now
recognised and respected throughout the region for the quality of its
food offer.
Left to right: Hubert Reid, Chairman 
David George, Chief Financial Officer 
Susan Murray, Non-executive director 
Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive 
David Harding, Non-executive director 
Simon Townsend, Chief Operating Officer 
Jo Stewart, Non-executive director
Thorverton Arms
THORVERTON ARMS, EXETER
WINNER – Newcomer of
the year award 2006
The Publican Food Awards
The Thorverton Arms dates back to
1542, when it first opened as a
coaching inn. Garth and Melissa
Pearse offer an extensive range of
locally sourced products: simple
fresh home-made food is presented
in a comfortable and relaxed
atmosphere and offered at
affordable prices. 
THE PICCADILLY, CAERPHILLY, MID GLAMORGAN
WINNER – Tenanted or leasehold Pub of the Year
Morning Advertiser Pub Awards
Mark Parry and Tracy Hammond’s business plan transformed
a basic local pub into a stylish venue, including a grand
dining room overlooking Caerphilly Castle. They have
attracted a new set of customers whilst retaining their
place in the community.
The Piccadilly
Front cover pictures (left to right)
World’s End, Ecton
World’s End, Ecton
Plough, Harborne
Back cover pictures (left to right)
Bell, Welford-on-Avon
English lounge, Manchester
English lounge, Manchester
The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre 2006 2005 Increase
EBITDA* £547m £528m 3.6%
Profit before tax and exceptional items £315m £290m 8.6%
Earnings per share 100.9p 61.0p 65.4%
Adjusted earnings per share† 68.3p 58.4p 17.0%
Dividends 27.0p 18.0p 50.0%
* Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
† Excludes exceptional items.
n Average EBITDA per pub has increased by 5.2% to £64,200. 
n The quality of the pub estate has been improved through the acquisition and disposal of pubs and capital
expenditure of £54 million.
n At 30 September 2006 the estate comprised 7,809 pubs valued at £5.4 billion. 
n Cash generated after interest, tax, dividends and capital expenditure amounted to £107 million.
n At 30 September 2006 underlying net debt was £3,166 million, an increase of £45 million on the prior year. 
n A total of 42.3 million shares have been repurchased for consideration of £393 million (excluding costs). 
Financial Highlights
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 1 I am delighted to report on our results for the year to 30 September 2006 in which we have delivered a strong
financial performance through profit growth and a rolling share buy-back programme. 
EBITDA before exceptional items increased by 3.6% over the prior year to £547m and profit before tax and
exceptional items rose by 8.6% to £315 million. Adjusted earnings per share increased by 17.0% to 68.3 pence.
For the second consecutive year, the Board is recommending a 50% increase in the rate of dividend paid to
shareholders, giving a total for the year of 27.0 pence per share. Dividend cover based on adjusted earnings per
share is 2.5 times, in line with the policy described a year ago. The final dividend of 18.0 pence per share will be
payable on 22 January 2007 to shareholders on the register on 29 December 2006. 
Last year we announced our intention to commence a rolling share buy-back programme to return surplus cash
to shareholders and to ensure that the balance sheet remains efficient. Market purchases totalling 42.3 million
of our ordinary shares were made for an aggregate consideration of £393 million (excluding costs) which,
together with £70 million of dividends paid, resulted in a total of £463 million being returned to shareholders in
the year. In the absence of material pub acquisitions and subject to overall market conditions and shareholder
approval, we expect that at least this level of returns will be made in the year to 30 September 2007. Indeed,
since the year end we have purchased a further 6.0 million shares at a cost of £65 million.
Shareholders will be aware from the interim statement that Gordon Harrison, Operations Director had decided to
retire from the business at the end of September this year. The Board, in reiterating its thanks for his tremendous
contribution, wishes to record in this Annual Report its appreciation of all that he has done for the Company over
fifteen years. 
The past year has been a challenging one for the licensed trade but we have demonstrated that our strategy for
enhancing shareholder value, underpinned by the optimal use of the strong cash flows which are generated from
our quality pub estate, delivers attractive financial returns for shareholders. The Board looks forward to another
year of solid progress.
Hubert Reid
Chairman
21 November 2006 
Chairman’s Statement
2 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 2 RESULTS
The year to 30 September 2006 has once again seen continued improvements in the quality and profitability of
the Enterprise Inns (ETI) estate and further growth in shareholder value.
Group EBITDA before exceptional items increased to £547 million, equivalent to £64,200 per pub based upon the
weighted average number of pubs (8,522) owned during the year, an increase of 5.2% in EBITDA per pub over the
prior year. Profit before tax and exceptional items grew by 8.6% to £315 million and adjusted earnings per share
increased by 17% to 68.3p. 
STRATEGY
The key strengths of the ETI business have been clarity and focus. From the day that the business was created in
1991, our two Mission Statements have remained unchanged: “to deliver long-term sustainable growth in
shareholder value” and “to be the leading specialist operator of leased and tenanted pubs in the UK”.
This clarity of purpose and consistency of application has delivered excellent results over the years. Not only has
our estate increased in size from the 368 pubs that we purchased in 1991 to 7,809 at 30 September 2006 but,
more importantly, we have seen a continuous increase in the quality, profitability and sustainability of the pubs.
This is reflected in average EBITDA per pub having increased from £19,700 in 1992 to £66,700 today.
We remain convinced that the leased and tenanted model, combining the entrepreneurial flair and commitment
of independent licensees with the experience and financial strength of a major company, offers the best formula
to create ongoing success in the pub industry of the future. We never cease to admire the ingenuity and
professionalism of our licensees, whether it is their gritty determination in the tough times or outstanding
innovation and flair in exciting times.
The clarity and simplicity of our operating model has also delivered outstanding returns to our shareholders, with
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of some 2,640% over the eleven years since our flotation on the London Stock
Exchange in 1995, compared to 147% for the FTSE All-Share over the same period.
This commitment to shareholder value underlies our current strategy of returning cash to shareholders through
our ongoing share buy-back programme. We believe that prices paid for pubs in some recent corporate
transactions may in time prove to be value destructive, particularly where the prices paid seem not to be driven
by the long-term quality and sustainability of the pubs but by the availability of large amounts of relatively
cheap funding.
In such a market, we prefer to take the opportunity to sell pubs which do not fit in with our long-term quality
objectives and to use the strength of the financial markets to optimise the performance of our balance sheet for
the benefit of our shareholders. It is of course possible that acquisition opportunities at a sensible price may
become available, in which case we would review these in detail and pursue them with vigour if appropriate.
TEAM
Our strategy has been driven by a commitment throughout the organisation to integrity, simplicity and
empowerment. These values have enabled ETI to expand rapidly through acquisition, effectively integrating large
numbers of pubs into the organisation with minimum disruption. Rapid expansion does from time to time bring
with it some inevitable inefficiencies and cultural differences and it has been particularly rewarding in the past
twelve months to enjoy a period of stability where we were able to make some structural and organisational
changes, not so much to reduce costs but primarily to streamline the business and improve the quality of
support that we give to our licensees.
Ownership, commitment and reward are critical ingredients in the motivation and retention of key staff and we
are delighted that 100% of senior managers at ETI have some form of interest in the ownership of the business,
through direct share ownership, share options, Share Incentive Plans or the Save as you Earn scheme. Indeed,
90% of all employees who have been with ETI for two years or more have an interest in the shares of the
Company.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 3
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 3 ESTATE
The quality, value and profitability of the ETI estate have continued to improve during the year, reflecting our
investment alongside licensees and astute acquisitions and disposals. 
We invested £54 million of capital expenditure into the estate and, together with a similar level of expenditure
by our licensees, have improved 1,390 pubs, either through major schemes or minor refurbishments. Much of this
expenditure has been focused on preparing our pub estate for the forthcoming ban on smoking, due to be
introduced in Wales in April 2007 and England in July 2007. With 89% of our pubs having already developed
outside trading areas and over 85% now offering food, we are confident that the majority of our licensees are
well placed to benefit from the forthcoming ban which will, after all, make pubs more attractive to the
significant majority of pub goers and current non-users who do not smoke.
We continued to improve the quality of the estate through churn, buying 95 excellent pubs for a total
consideration of £80 million. Furthermore, we took advantage of a very strong market to sell those pubs which
we had already identified as not fitting our quality and profitability profile for the future. During the year we sold
107 pubs in individual and small package transactions, generating proceeds of £48 million. In addition, in
September 2006, we completed the sale of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns for total consideration of £318 million.
Our total disposal programme delivered a net profit, accounted for as an exceptional item in the accounts, of £67
million above book value. 
This policy of investment and churn, plus an encouraging revaluation of 6.5% in the underlying value of the
estate, has seen average EBITDA per pub increase to £66,700 for the 7,809 pubs which we owned at 
30 September 2006. The book value of the pub estate at the year end, valued on an individual pub by pub basis,
was £5.4 billion, equivalent to an average value per pub of £685,000. Our independent valuers advise us that the
valuation would be some 15% higher if valuing the estate as a whole.
As part of our annual estates review, we form a view of the quality and sustainability of every pub in the estate.
Although inevitably somewhat subjective, this process has provided a useful measure of the improving nature of
the estate over time. With great pubs scoring as a 1 and potential disposals scored as a 5, we see strong
correlations between pub quality and licensee profitability. It is very satisfying to see that both the average
quality score and the quality profile of the estate have continued to improve over the year.
On 20 November 2006 we entered into a binding agreement for the sale of our entire Scottish estate of 137
pubs to Retail & Licensed Properties Limited for a consideration of £115 million, generating a profit over book
value of £13 million. Whilst many of these pubs matched our normal retention criteria, this was a strategic sale
reflecting our lack of critical mass in Scotland, a market that has many different characteristics to England and
Wales and one where the leased and tenanted concept is not so well established.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
4 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
54 3 2 1
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10% 
5%
0%
3
0
8
5
33
31
36
39
20
25
n Sept 2005 n Sept 2006
Pub Quality Scores
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 4 LICENSEES 
A top quality estate of pubs generates sustainable profits for shareholders and licensees alike and it is the link
between the quality of our pubs, the profitability of our licensees and our operating profit which is critical to our
long-term success. If we are to attract the best licensees, they must be able to see the opportunity to achieve
appropriate rewards for their hard work and investment. This is not just a function of pub quality but also, against
a backdrop of increasing costs and bureaucracy, of the essential fairness of the package that we offer, particularly
the level of rent charged and the help and support that we give. 
In what has been a year of rising costs for licensees, we are satisfied that we have maintained our commitment
to fair rents and once again we are pleased that our estate leads the way in providing worthwhile returns for our
hard-working licensees. Based upon our annual review of the ETI estate, we estimate that the average level of
licensee profitability in the 7,809 pubs that we owned at 30 September 2006 has increased by 7% to £45,000.
There is of course a benefit of estate churn in this average increase, but we nevertheless estimate that on a like-
for-like basis, licensee profitability in our pubs has increased in line with inflation.
We are pleased that licensees recognise that the higher quality and profitability of our estate, together with the
essential fairness of the package that we offer, gives them real opportunities to be successful. This is once again
supported by improvements in key performance indicators:
n During the year we received more than 5,000 enquiries from licensees looking to take a pub with ETI,
with more than 30% of these enquiries converting to formal applications.
n We have 995 fully funded, fully screened licensees in our applicant database.
n There have been 820 lease assignments during the year, at an average premium of £68,000 (£85,000
including licensee fixtures and fittings).
n Rent concessions at 30 September 2006 remained consistent at less than 0.4% of the rent-roll.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 5
* Average profit per pub for 2006 within each band.
£0–£15k £15–£30k £30–£45k £45–£60k £60–£75k >£75k
(£—)* (£26k)* (£37k)* (£51k)* (£66k)* (£92k)*
Licensee Profitability
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10% 
5%
0%
1
0
26
19
38
40
22
25
8
10
5
6
n 2005 n 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 5 n 1,317 rent reviews were completed during the year and these resulted in an average rental increase of
2.1% per annum. Just two rent reviews went to arbitration. 
n Adjusted for changes to licensee trading terms where appropriate, average rental income per pub
increased by 2.6%, broadly in line with inflation.
n Bad debt costs once again reduced and remain around 0.1% of turnover.
We do not expect the coming year to be materially easier for the on-trade and it is clear that poorer quality pubs
will struggle, particularly if they are unable to create opportunities from the forthcoming ban on smoking.
Nevertheless, we are confident that our constant pursuit of quality, and the related improvements in potential
licensee profitability, will once again ensure that the majority of our pubs continue to gain market share and to
prosper.
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Cash inflow
Free cash inflow during the year amounted to £107 million, based on operating cash inflow and after deduction
of mandatory payments in respect of interest and tax and discretionary payments in respect of capital
expenditure and dividends. 
In addition, net receipts from the purchase and sale of pubs in the year amounted to £282 million, which
included cash receipts of £316 million in respect of the sale of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns.
Debt facilities
In May, the Group agreed a refinancing of its syndicated debt facilities at attractive rates, increasing these
facilities from £490 million to £1 billion. At the end of the financial year £575 million was available for
drawdown. The Group has a flexible financial structure comprising these syndicated debt facilities, a portfolio of
corporate bonds and the Unique securitisation.
At 30 September 2006 underlying net debt was £3,166 million, similar to the level of £3,121 million at the start
of the year. Underlying net debt represents amounts repayable to banks and other lenders net of cash retained in
the business.
Financial leverage
The Board’s policy is to maintain efficient leverage of the balance sheet in the context of the level of profit
generated and the valuation of the pub estate.
The two key metrics used to measure financial leverage are interest cover based on EBITDA and the ratio of debt
to EBITDA. Based on the current financing structure, the Board considers optimal leverage ratios for the Group as
a whole to be around 2.2 times interest cover and approximately 6.6 times debt to EBITDA. At the end of the
financial year interest cover was 2.4 times and underlying net debt to EBITDA was 5.8 times. There is therefore
scope to increase leverage, providing significant headroom for continuing the share buy-back programme or for
acquisitions should the opportunity arise.
Balance sheet
The net assets of the Group at year-end were £1,676 million which compares with £1,573 million as at 
30 September 2005.
The book value of the pub estate at year-end was £5.4 billion, which included a cumulative revaluation surplus
of £845 million.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
6 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 6 Tax charge
The tax charge of £90 million represents 22% of profit before tax. The pre-exceptional tax charge of £95 million
equates to 30% of profit before tax and exceptional items. 
The £5 million exceptional tax credit comprises a credit of £34 million in relation to indexation on the tax base
cost of certain properties together with a tax charge of £29 million which primarily relates to the movement in
fair value of swaps and profit on sale of property, plant and equipment. 
Cash outflow in respect of tax during the year was £69 million and represents 22% of profit before tax and
exceptional items.
Exceptional items
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the
Income Statement. Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their size
or nature to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. Exceptional items are
generally those which the Board does not consider to be part of the core operations of the Group. As a result, the
Group focuses on ‘pre-exceptional’ performance measures in order to compare underlying performance year on
year. 
The most significant exceptional items in the year are the profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment of
£67 million and the movement in fair value of interest rate swaps of £40 million. The profit on disposal is
highlighted as exceptional as it is not considered to be part of the core business of the Group. The profit of £67
million includes £51 million of profit arising on the batch disposal to Admiral Taverns. The movement in fair
value of interest rate swaps is classified as exceptional as it is a non-cash item which is driven by factors outside
of the control of the Group. The valuation of interest rate swaps in the year has led to a £40 million credit in
2006 compared to a £20 million charge in the previous year. This volatility is largely due to changes in forecast
interest rates which have increased this year, reducing the forecast cost of maintaining the swaps. 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
The new International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) apply for our 2005/6 financial year, with our Group
accounts presented accordingly. The restated financial results under IFRS for the year ended 30 September 2005
and the 6 months ended 31 March 2005 were published in May 2006.
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REITs)
We continue to monitor the potential for creating shareholder value that REITs may offer. Detailed legislation has
now been issued, albeit subject to further guidance notes and the ability of government to change the rules
without reference to further legislation. We therefore continue to review with our advisers the costs, benefits and
risks of structuring the Group to take advantage of this potentially favourable tax regime and the potential
increase in long-term shareholder value that would result from any change.
INDUSTRY ISSUES
Licensing reform
These results reflect almost a full year of trading under the new, more flexible licensing regime introduced in
November 2005. Despite some early problems caused primarily by lack of clarity in the detail of the legislation,
the system has now settled down and can be seen as broadly positive. Although the additional trading hours
have had only a minimal effect on pub profitability, the increased flexibility in opening hours has benefited the
consumer and helped to reduce alcohol related disorder. We share the government’s determination to tackle
irresponsible drinking and continue to work hard with our colleagues in the on-trade to tackle under-age
drinking and irresponsible promotions.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 7
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 7 Ban on smoking in pubs
Our experiences in Scotland, where the ban on smoking was introduced in March this year, confirmed that good
quality pubs continued to perform well, particularly where licensees had prepared for the ban, taking advantage
of available outside areas and developing their pub to reflect the changed circumstances. 
The smoking ban will become effective in Wales and in England in April and July 2007 respectively and we are
confident that our licensees are in a position to make the most of this evolution in pub going.
CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
This has been another exciting year for ETI, working alongside our licensees to grow market share and
profitability. The team has once again delivered substantial growth in earnings and dividends and we have made
excellent progress with our ongoing share buy-back programme. The new financial year has started well and we
look forward to our pubs continuing to perform ahead of the market and to the team delivering further solid
growth in shareholder value.
Ted Tuppen
Chief Executive
21 November 2006 
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
8 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 8 The Group continues to adopt an approach to the management of corporate responsibility that balances the 
long-term interests of stakeholders by focusing on those matters which are relevant to our long-term success
and the environment in which the business operates.
The Board is committed to act in a responsible manner. This report sets out the key areas we have focused on
during the period under review. Our approach to corporate responsibility includes:
n analysing and managing risk;
n maintaining a continuing dialogue with stakeholders; and
n managing the environmental and social impact of the business on employees and the community.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Risk Management
The identification, management and monitoring of key risks is undertaken as part of the Group’s system of
internal control as described on page 27. In addition, we work with employees, licensees and suppliers as
appropriate to ensure we understand any issues which may impact on the workplace, the community or the
environment. The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and implementation of the approach to
social responsibility matters. All executive directors are responsible for the promotion of good practice in
environmental matters and report to the Board as necessary on significant risks. 
The most significant corporate responsibility issues for the Group are considered below and the Group has put in
place policies to ensure:
n compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice; 
n employees are provided with a safe working environment; and
n ongoing training needs of employees are met.
The Workplace
The Group’s Health & Safety Policy (the ‘H&S Policy’) clearly states its intention to provide and maintain a
healthy and safe working environment. 
In order to deliver this policy, the Group has established an internal Health & Safety Management Group (the
‘H&S Group’) with responsibility for advising, reviewing and delivering the agreed management systems
employed by the business to satisfy its health and safety responsibilities. The H&S Group reports to the Company
Secretary who is responsible for regular reporting to the Board. The H&S Group’s remit is carried out in
accordance with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all other relevant health & safety statutory
provisions and approved codes of practice. 
The H&S Group has adopted the principles contained in the Health and Safety Executive guidance (HSG65)
“Managing Health and Safety”, which includes the following specific requirements:
n the establishment of a formal written policy;
n the establishment of a communication system with staff;
n the ongoing identification of risks and required responses; and
n the ongoing measurement of performance and the continual improvement of process and procedure to
address changing risks.
Corporate Responsibility
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 9
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 9 The H&S Group monitors accidents affecting staff, licensees and contractors, audits the understanding and
application of the H&S policy and procedure by staff and contractors and, in July 2006, provided its annual report
and risk assessment to the Board.
During the year the H&S Group has organised fire warden, first aid and lift evacuation training for office-based
employees. In addition, the H&S Group has introduced a policy to provide guidance for the health and safety of
employees driving on Company business.
The Directors’ Report sets out employment policies and explains the way we communicate with employees. The
key risk area in our working environment is the health, safety and well-being of employees. Employees work in a
low risk environment. Again there has been no material health and safety issue, incident or fine for non-
compliance during the period under review. 
The Environment
The Group recognises its responsibility to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for
improvement in areas of environmental impact. Our approach is to work towards continuous improvement
through education, communication and direct action where applicable. 
(i) Carbon Management
The Group has established an Environmental Impact Committee with a view to reviewing strategy and
implementing policies to deliver high quality energy services to our pubs, including, in 2006:
n continued promotion of cellar cooling maintenance contracts under which our licensees are able to
utilise highly energy efficient cellar cooling equipment (4,097 pubs are currently under such contracts) 
and to target the replacement of 10% of inefficient cellar cooling equipment each year to ensure optimal
energy performance;
n an improved working relationship with cellar cooling maintenance contractors; and 
n a detailed inventory of boiler performance was undertaken across approximately 100 sites, and an action
plan will be implemented in 2007 to improve boiler quality across the pub estate.
In 2006 the Group adopted the Carbon Trust’s Carbon Management approach across its operations, including our
head office and the pub estate. We appointed Ecofys, an external consultant, to provide specialist climate
change expertise and to identify the risks and opportunities for the Group. 
A comprehensive action plan was developed with the Carbon Trust to accelerate the integration of carbon issues
throughout the Group and address our short, medium and long-term climate impacts. The Group will continue to
be supported by the Carbon Trust in 2007 to implement a range of measures focused on our most energy
intensive activities:
n pilot an energy efficient lighting programme in the pub estate, whereby discounted energy efficient
lighting will be installed, delivering significant energy savings; 
Corporate Responsibility
10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 10 n continue to develop an advanced maintenance contract for cooling and heating systems in the pub
estate, including extensive maintenance to deliver improved energy efficiency (e.g. efficiency checks,
descaling of hot water heating elements) and to ensure that the installation of all new mechanical plant
carries the green flag efficiency mark to reduce wasted energy use;
n consideration of an energy aggregation programme to introduce advanced billing and energy reporting
methods to the pub estate and promote energy consciousness and efficiency amongst our licensees;
n consideration of a focused awareness programme targeting our licensees who will be able to choose from
a range of energy saving improvements for their pub and become involved in their implementation; and
n undertake ongoing audits of the pub estate to accurately measure energy efficiency savings and monitor
the progress of the above-mentioned initiatives.
At head office, a detailed energy audit was undertaken to identify opportunities to reduce the building’s energy
consumption and assess the viability of alternative energy production. In 2007, an energy management
programme for the head office will be introduced to deliver energy savings of over 10%, especially over the
weekend and outside office hours. 
(ii) Other Environmental Issues
At head office materials are recycled where possible and paper is sourced from a renewable and sustainable
source. Upon acquiring the building in 2002, the Group complied with the local planning authority’s
environmental policy relating to the construction, occupation and utilisation of office facilities. This included the
provision of a transport policy aimed at reducing the demand for car parking and promoting employee behaviour
consistent with local planning, environment and social policy. The Group supports home working where
appropriate.
During the year a head office catering facility was introduced and the kitchen equipment installed carries the
green flagged efficiency rating. Wherever possible biodegradable materials are used in its operation.
Through its membership of the British Beer and Pub Association (BBPA), the Group has participated in the
Government’s consultation period seeking to clarify and implement glass recycling targets under the EU Waste
Directive and has registered with a compliance scheme pursuant to our obligations under the Packaging Waste
Regulations.
The Community and Social Issues
The Group believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses are substantially aligned
with the interests of local communities and consumers. In this regard, the Group seeks to ensure that its pubs
provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and promote the positive contributions that pubs make to
their local communities.
The Group implemented the provisions of the Licensing Act 2003, which took effect on 24 November 2005, and
worked extensively with licensees, local authorities and local communities to make appropriate applications for
variation of licensing hours and conditions which balanced the opportunities and interests of all parties. Through
its membership of the BBPA, the Group continues to engage with Government departments within the Home
Office and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, to promote understanding of, and compliance with, the
new licensing regime.
Corporate Responsibility
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 11
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 11 A ban on smoking in public places was introduced in Scotland in March 2006, and is due to be introduced across
England and Wales in 2007. Notwithstanding the planned legislation, the Group has continued to promote the
social and environmental benefits of a reduction in the incidence of smoking in pubs, and is continuing to work
with licensees in preparation for implementation of the new legislation.
In addition:
n the Group is committed to high standards of customer service to its licensees and gives serious
consideration to complaints from the local community. Procedures are in place to ensure disputes are
monitored and dealt with quickly;
n training is arranged to provide support to our licensees and to develop business potential;
n the Group has recently revised and updated its Code of Practice under which the Group manages its
relationships with licensees, and includes provisions in its agreements with licensees requiring licensed
premises to be operated in a responsible manner; and
n the Group seeks to ensure that appropriate and reasonable actions have been implemented across the
pub estate to ensure its licensees comply with the Disability Discrimination legislation.
Finally as a corporate sponsor we continue to support the philosophy and ethos of The Prince of Wales’s ‘Pub is
the Hub’ campaign, encouraging rural licencees to diversify and deliver a wider range of services to the
communities they serve, ensuring that the pub becomes the heart of the community and continues to thrive as a
vital part of village life. During the year a number of our licensees have developed a range of such services
including the use of their premises as village shops and post offices. 
Responsible Drinking
The irresponsible consumption of alcohol can have detrimental effects on the social structures of local
communities. The Group recognises that pub licensees, retailers, the government and the consumer all have
responsibilities as regards the promotion and management of a responsible drinking environment. We seek to be
responsible by the following means:
n the Company is a voluntary contributor to the funding of the Drinkaware Trust, a new body which brings
together industry, charities, lobby groups, medical professionals and experts in the field to address
alcohol misuse and promote sensible drinking across the UK; 
n the Company is a signatory to the Portman Group’s Code of Practice, and works proactively with drinks
suppliers to ensure that they adhere to a responsible advertising, pricing and packaging regime; 
n the Group actively promotes the Portman Group’s ‘Proof of Age Card Scheme’ to all licensees and
provides materials to all new licensees to enable them to operate the scheme in their premises; 
n through its membership of the BBPA, the Company has actively participated in discussions with
Government in the preparation of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy;
n the Group has also participated in a number of partnerships with local authorities to develop and
implement local policies and strategies which are designed to address the potential consequences of
alcohol misuse whilst not penalising the majority of responsible licensees and their customers; and
n a number of the Group’s suppliers have introduced sensible drinking messages on their products.
Future Corporate Responsibility Requirements
The Board is committed to continuous improvement in its corporate responsibility practices where relevant to its
operations and to build appropriate measures and procedures into its existing risk management and governance
systems. 
Corporate Responsibility
12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 12 H V REID #
Chairman
Appointed to the Board 21/01/97
Hubert Reid, 65, is Chairman of Midas Income and
Growth Trust PLC, Deputy Chairman of Majedie
Investments PLC and a non-executive director of
Michael Page International plc. He was previously
Managing Director and then Chairman of the
Boddington Group plc and a non-executive director
and then Chairman of Ibstock Plc, Bryant Group plc
and the Royal London Group.
G E TUPPEN #
Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board 22/02/91
Ted Tuppen, 54, led the management buy-in which
resulted in the formation of the Company in 1991. 
He is a chartered accountant and was in practice until
1980 with KPMG in London, North America and
Europe. He then qualified with an MBA from the
Cranfield School of Management before becoming
managing director of a privately owned international
engineering company where he worked until 1989.
He has also worked in, and acted as a consultant to, 
a variety of businesses. He is a Vice President and a
former Chairman of the British Beer and Pub
Association. 
A J STEWART *#
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board 29/05/01
Jo Stewart, 57, is a fellow of the Institute of Grocery
Distribution. He has over 30 years of experience in
the food industry, was Managing Director of Pizzaland
International and Chief Executive of Northern Foods
plc until September 2003.
D A HARDING *#
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board 06/11/03
David Harding, 59, is Chairman of Coventry Building
Society. He was previously Finance Director of
Railtrack Group plc and Group Chief Executive of the
parent company RTG plc until 2002. He was also
Group Finance Director of Rugby Group plc and T&N
plc. He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Management Accountants and a local magistrate.
S E MURRAY *#
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board 03/11/04
Susan Murray, 49, is a non-executive director of
Imperial Tobacco plc, SSL International plc and Wm
Morrison Supermarkets PLC and also a director and
council member of the Advertising Standards
Authority. She was previously Chief Executive of
Littlewoods Stores Limited. She has also been
Director of International Marketing for Diageo Plc,
President and Chief Executive Officer of The Pierre
Smirnoff Company and was a member of the
Independent Complaints Panel of the Portman Group
from 1998 to 2004.
* Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees
# Member of the Nominations Committee
Directors and Advisers
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 13
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 13 D C GEORGE 
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board 08/07/91
David George, 55, joined the Company on its
formation as part of the management buy-in team. 
A qualified accountant, he spent ten years in industry
including six years at Massey Ferguson Manufacturing
Limited. He then spent ten years with Grand
Metropolitan Brewing Limited in various finance
roles, including Finance Director of The Manns and
Norwich Brewery Company Limited and subsequently
as Finance Director of the production division of
Grand Metropolitan Brewing. 
W S TOWNSEND 
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board 01/10/00
Simon Townsend, 44, joined the Company in February
1999, and was appointed to the Board in October
2000. He has worked in the pub and leisure industry
for 20 years in various sales, marketing, commercial
and operational roles, previously with Whitbread plc,
Allied Domecq PLC, Rank Group PLC and Marston,
Thompson & Evershed PLC.
Secretary
D C George
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP, No. 1 Colmore Square,
Birmingham, B4 6HQ
Bankers
Bank of Scotland, 124 Colmore Row, 
Birmingham, B3 4AU 
Financial Adviser
HSBC Investment Bank plc, Vintners Place, 
68 Upper Thames Street, London, EC4V 3BJ 
Stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 
1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB
UBS Limited, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions,
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8AE
Solicitors
CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, Mitre House, 
160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD
Registered Office
3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, 
B90 4SJ
Company number
2562808
Directors and Advisers
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 14 The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2006.
Accounts and dividends
This is the first set of accounts reported using International Financial Reporting Standards. The Group profit for
the year, after taxation, amounted to £325 million (2005 — £209 million) and is dealt with as shown in the
Group Income Statement. 
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 18.0 pence (2005 — 12.4 pence) per ordinary share to
be approved at the Annual General Meeting on 16 January 2007. The final dividend will be paid on 22 January
2007 to members on the register on 29 December 2006. When added to the interim dividend of 9.0 pence (2005
– 5.6 pence), this produces a total dividend for the year of 27.0 pence (2005 — 18.0 pence) per ordinary share.
Principal activities and review of the business
The principal activity of the Group continues to be that of a leased and tenanted pub operator in the UK.
A review of the year’s activities is given in the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Review
(incorporating the business review) on pages 2 to 8. 
Directors and their interests
The names of the current directors together with related biographical information are set out on pages 13 to 14
All directors served throughout the year and were in place on the date of signing of these financial statements
except for Mr G W Harrison who retired on 30 September 2006.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend retire from
the Board at the Annual General Meeting by rotation and offer themselves for reappointment. The Board believes
that the performance of Messrs Harding and Townsend continues to be effective, that they demonstrate
commitment to their roles and have a range of skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the
Company. In addition, Mr Harding considers that he has sufficient time to commit to the Company’s affairs
notwithstanding his other business commitments and has no conflicting interests.
At no time during the year did any of the directors have an interest in any contract with the Group. The interests
of the directors in the share capital of the Company, other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares
(which are detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report), were as follows:
30 September 30 September
Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each 2006 (i) 2005
H V Reid Beneficial 122,500 122,500
G E Tuppen Beneficial 1,060,054 1,002,412
As Trustee 198,150 177,980
D C George Beneficial 1,025,947 964,854
W S Townsend Beneficial 173,797 125,822
A J Stewart Beneficial 14,000 14,000
D A Harding Beneficial 500 500
S E Murray Beneficial 2,000 500
(i) These shares include the number of shares the executive directors hold in the Enterprise Inns 2005 Share
Incentive Plan purchased on 15 December 2005 at 919 pence per share as follows:
Directors’ Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 15
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 15 Partnership Matching 30 September 30 September 
Shares Shares 2006 2005
G E Tuppen 163 163 326 —
D C George 163 163 326 —
W S Townsend 163 163 326 —
The executive directors, along with other employees, have been granted options over the shares of the Company.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. There have been no changes in
the interests of directors between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the accounts.
Notifiable interests in shares
As at 21 November 2006 the Company had been notified of the following material holdings of 3% or more of the
Company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury shares):
Number of Percentage of
ordinary issued share
shares capital
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Limited 32,585,001 10.8
Prudential plc 21,308,657 7.1
Landsdowne Partners Limited Partnership 19,343,473 6.4
Barclays PLC 12,048,772 4.0
The Goldman Sachs Group Inc 11,803,876 3.9
FMR Corp/Fidelity International Limited 10,856,902 3.6
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 9,574,328 3.2
Share Capital
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 27 to the accounts on page 71. The Company did
not issue any shares during the period under review.
Own shares acquired by the Company
At the Annual General Meeting held on 19 January 2006, the Company was given authority to purchase up to
51,850,998 of its ordinary shares. During the year the Company made on-market purchases totalling 42,340,815
of its own ordinary shares of 5 pence each, representing 12.11% of the issued share capital, for an aggregate
consideration of £393 million (excluding costs). As at 30 September 2006, 25,000,000 of these shares were held
in treasury and the balance of 17,340,815 were cancelled. The maximum number of shares held in treasury
during the year ended 30 September 2006 was 32,000,000 on 14 June 2006 for a period of 105 days,
representing 9.2% of total called up share capital at that time. The present authority for the Company to
purchase its own shares will expire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 January 2007. The directors
will be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares as part of the planned
continuation of the share buy-back programme. It is expected that any shares purchased pursuant to the share
buy-back programme will be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly. Alternatively the
shares may be purchased and held as treasury shares. Further details are set out in the Explanatory notes to the
Notice of AGM on page 127.
Directors’ Report
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 16 Shares acquired by Employee Share Trusts
The Company has established an employee benefit trust, the trustee of which is Halifax EES Trustees
International Limited. As at 30 September 2006, the trustee held 6,617,408 shares which are used to satisfy
awards made under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans and other share option schemes. The Company has also
established a Quest trust to hold shares to satisfy awards made under the Save as you Earn share option scheme,
the trustee of which is Enterprise Inns Quest Trustees Limited. As at 30 September 2006, this trustee held
252,845 shares. The executive directors as employees of the Company are potential beneficiaries of shares held
by these trusts (the ‘trusts’). 
The total number of shares held by the trusts at 30 September 2006 was 6,870,253 representing 2.07% of the
total called up share capital at that date. During the year, the trusts purchased 27,884 of the Company’s shares.
These shares were purchased for a consideration of £0.25 million (net of expenses) and had a nominal value of
£1,394. The maximum number of shares held during the year ended 30 September 2006 was 9,248,445 on 
1 October 2005 for a period of 54 days, representing 2.65% of total called up share capital at that time. 
During the year, 2,406,076 shares with a nominal value of £120,304 were disposed of by the trust by way of the
exercise of share options under the share schemes. A total of 497,751 shares were disposed of through the short-
term and long-term incentive schemes for consideration of £8. A total of 209,579 shares were disposed of
through the Quest Trust for consideration of £0.26 million. 
Directors’ indemnities
The Company’s Articles of Association permit the Board to grant the directors indemnities in relation to their
duties as directors, including qualifying third party indemnity provisions (within the meaning of the Companies
Act 1985) in respect of any liabilities incurred by them in connection with any negligence, default, breach of
duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company. No such indemnities have been granted.
Employment policies 
The Group is dependent on the skills and commitment of its employees and recognises the importance of
creating a workplace in which all employees are inspired and enabled to give their best. A core set of common
values means that employees at all levels of the business are encouraged to make the fullest possible
contribution as their performance is central to the successful delivery of its objectives. To attract and retain these
skills, the Group is committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory and
diverse working environment. The aim of the policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less
favourable treatment because of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference,
religion, belief or disability. All decisions are based on merit of the individual concerned. The Group is dedicated
to undertaking its business operations in a way which respects individual human rights, treats individuals with
dignity and allows freedom of association.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements
of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing
employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion
to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
The Group’s employment policies and procedures are described in detail in a Staff Handbook which is provided to
all employees upon joining the Group. The Staff Handbook is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of
relevant employment legislation and best practice, and new policies and procedures are developed if required.
These include specific policies on equal opportunities, flexible working, training and development, acceptance of
gifts and hospitality, and whistle-blowing. 
The Group has systems in place to comply with the Data Protection Act 1998 to ensure the privacy of personal
information. 
Directors’ Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 17
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 17 Employee involvement and reward
The Group actively encourages learning and development and believes that effective training is essential to the
maintenance and improvement of the Group’s success and individual performance. The Group is committed to
providing all employees with relevant training to meet the business needs of the Group and to improve
individual employee skills. In providing this training and support we expect high standards and commitment in
return. All employees are provided with initial induction training and are set challenging personal objectives and
participate in discretionary bonus schemes.
The Group operates a comprehensive employee appraisal system which ensures that clear goals are set, personal
objectives are monitored, key competencies are assessed and any performance concerns addressed through
appropriate training and focus. Every employee has the opportunity to discuss work-related aspirations and
participate in appropriate training and development programmes.
During the year, continued emphasis has been placed on effective communication regarding matters which may
affect employees and the overall performance and development of the Group. The policy of providing employees
with information about the Group has continued. Employee engagement is met through a variety of means
including regular briefings and team meetings through its management structure which allows a free flow of
information and ideas via publications such as Eagle Eye. In addition, an annual conference is held to which all
employees are invited and provides an opportunity for employees to be made aware of key objectives and
strategy. The use of email and the corporate intranet supplement effective communication to all employees.
The Company continues to encourage employee ownership of its shares through the provision of the following
employee share plans administered by HBOS Employee Equity Solutions:
n the Save as You Earn Scheme in which 290 employees have entered into savings contracts for either five
or seven years at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares at a discount of 20% to the
market price of the shares at the time of the issue of the options; and 
n the Share Incentive Plan in which 300 employees have purchased shares out of pre-tax income up to
statutory limits which are held in a trust. Currently the Company awards one free matching share for each
share bought by an employee.
Charitable and Political Donations
At pub level, the Company supports local community initiatives and charitable causes through the appropriate
use of marketing investment. The Company does not make any corporate charitable donations. The Company has
not made any political donations during the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so for the
foreseeable future.
Creditors’ payment policy and practice
The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers. Payment is then made in
accordance with these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
At the year-end the Group had an average of 26 days’ purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial Instruments
For financial risk management objectives and policies, please see note 22 to the accounts. 
Directors’ Report
18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 18 Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
n so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and
n the director has taken all of the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director to make
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the
Companies Act 1985.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation to the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the
European Union. 
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the
financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In
preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
n present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,
comparable and understandable information; 
n provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
n state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
Directors’ Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 19
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 19 Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 16 January 2007 at 11.00 a.m. The notice convening the AGM and an explanation of
the resolutions sought are set out on pages 121 to 127. At the meeting, the Company will be seeking
shareholder approval, amongst other matters, for:
n the sub-division of each ordinary share of 5 pence each (issued and unissued) into two ordinary shares of
2.5 pence. If approved, the share split is expected to become effective on or around 17 January 2007; and 
n authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
The directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and it is their
recommendation that you support these proposals as they intend to do in respect of their own holdings.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Group’s auditors will be put to the members at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
By order of the Board
D C George
Secretary
21 November 2006
Directors’ Report
20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 20 Introduction
The Board recognises that good governance helps the business deliver its strategy, generate long-term
shareholder value and minimise risk. For the year under review the appropriate governance provisions are as set
out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003
(the “Combined Code”). 
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance as set out in the Combined
Code provisions, the Turnbull Report on Internal Control and appropriate best practice guidance issued by
investor bodies. Our corporate governance framework is directed in a manner which is responsible and in
accordance with high standards of honesty, transparency and accountability. The Board considers that this
statement on governance provides the information to enable shareholders to evaluate how the provisions and
principles of the Combined Code have been applied.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code 
The Board is responsible for the policies and controls put in place to discharge the Company’s responsibilities
under the Combined Code. These include, for example, a sound system of internal controls and risk
management procedures designed to ensure the Company’s policies achieve compliance. 
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2006 the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the principles of good governance with the exception of
provision A.3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-
executive directors determined by the Board to be independent. Following the retirement of Mr G W Harrison
on 30 September 2006 the Company is now compliant with this provision.
The Company has also complied with the Smith guidance on Audit Committees.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
Role
The Board is responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the success of the Group and for its overall
strategic direction, its values and its governance. It provides the leadership necessary to enable the business
objectives to be met while ensuring the obligations to its shareholders are safeguarded. 
Composition
For the year under review the Board comprised the Chairman, four executive directors and three independent
non-executive directors. The role of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate and clear divisions
of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and operate
effectively for these positions. During the year, the Board has again reviewed its composition and has
concluded that its composition fully satisfies the requirements of the business and ensures proper governance
of the Group.
The Chairman, Mr H V Reid, has primary responsibility for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and
setting its agenda and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties. He is
responsible, jointly with the Chief Executive, for the effective communication with the Company’s shareholders
and representation of the Group externally.
The Chief Executive, Mr G E Tuppen, has executive responsibilities to ensure delivery of strategic and financial
objectives and for executing the Group’s strategy and development. 
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management that
could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgement. The Board recognises that length of service can
impact on the independence of a non-executive director and, having considered this, is satisfied that all non-executives
remain independent in character and judgement for the purposes of the Combined Code. The Board membership and
that of its Committees is designed to ensure that no one individual or group dominates proceedings and that the wide
variety of skills allows effective leadership across the Company’s business activities.
Corporate Governance
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 21
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 21 Other than the retirement of Mr G W Harrison on 30 September 2006 there were no changes to the membership
of the Board during the year. 
The Board is satisfied that, as a non-executive director seeking re-election, Mr D A Harding continues to perform
effectively and demonstrates commitment and time to his role and duties.
Biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 13 to 14. 
Operation of the Board
The Company has an effective Board which leads and controls the Company and is responsible to the
shareholders for its proper management. The Board reviews trading performance, sets and monitors strategy and
examines major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities. 
The Board has established guidelines requiring that specific matters are reserved for a decision by the full Board.
This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, major financial and key operational issues. Such
matters include, for example, the approval of financial statements, material acquisitions and disposals of assets,
risk management and governance policies. All meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion by
all directors and ensure full participation in the decision-making process. 
Meetings and Attendance
The Board held six scheduled meetings in the past year and is expected to hold a similar number of such
meetings over its next financial year. The Board convenes additional meetings to consider matters that are time
critical. In addition, separate off-site meetings are held annually at which high level strategic issues, such as
future business direction and its financial and operational implications, are reviewed and debated. All of the
current directors attended all Board Meetings and the Strategic Review during the year.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director 
The non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors and bring an
independent judgement to the decision-making process at Board and Committee level. Their role requires a time
commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary to properly discharge their
duties. In terms of commitments outside of the Company, any material changes must be reported to and pre-
cleared with the Chairman.
The Company has appointed a Senior Independent Director whose role and responsibilities are clearly defined,
set out in writing and agreed by the Board. The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they
have any concerns that cannot be resolved through contact through normal channels.
In compliance with the Combined Code, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives
during the year to discuss matters in a forum that did not include executive directors or the Chairman. In
addition, all of the non-executives including the Chairman met during the year without the executive directors
being present to discuss, amongst other matters, the performance of the Chief Executive and overall feedback
arising from the performance evaluation process and strategic review.
Information and Training
The Board and its committees are supplied with full and timely information which enables the proper discharge
of their responsibilities. 
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional
advice at the Company’s expense. There is a formal written procedure concerning independent professional
advice setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board. The Company has arranged appropriate
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance to provide cover in the event of legal action against its directors. The
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its committees and is responsible for advising the
Chairman on matters of corporate governance, ensuring the good flow of information to the Board and its
committees and between the non-executives and senior management. The written responsibilities of the
Company Secretary are available on the Company’s website. 
Corporate Governance
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 22 All new directors receive an appropriately tailored induction programme arranged to develop their knowledge
and understanding of the Group and the key business issues. The training needs of each director are regularly
reviewed and assessed by the Board. Existing directors undertake such professional development as is necessary
for them to carry out their duties as directors. 
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newly appointed directors will be subject to election
at the next following Annual General Meeting and also that at least one-third of directors (excluding those
appointed to the Board during the year) shall retire by rotation each year. This is applied so that each director
will submit themselves for election or re-election at regular intervals and at least once every three years.
The Board has determined that re-election of the Chairman and non-executive directors is not automatic and is
subject to formal review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee and approval by shareholders. 
Board Committees
In order to ensure effective leadership and governance the Board governs through clearly identified committees
which have delegated powers to deal with specific aspects of the Company’s affairs. A summary of the operation
of these committees is set out below. All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements of the
Combined Code are chaired by an independent director or have a majority of independent directors as members.
The names and biographical details of all Board Committee members are set out on pages 13 to 14.
The Audit Committee
The Board’s obligation to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply
financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the
Company’s external auditors is met through the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr D A Harding who has current and relevant financial experience. The
Committee’s other members are Mr A J Stewart and Mrs S E Murray. All members are independent. The
Committee met four times during the year to coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the
Company including the submission of the interim and annual financial statements. All Committee members
attended each meeting during the year. Representatives from the external auditors, the Chairman, Chief
Executive and Chief Financial Officer were in attendance at part or all of each meeting by invitation. As a matter
of best practice, the Committee is able to meet alone with external auditors as required at the end of its
meetings.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in
accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code. These are available on the Company’s
website. 
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual
accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the
integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders. The Committee advises the Board on the
appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
The Committee has also been concerned to ensure that the appropriate standards of governance, reporting and
compliance are being met. The Company has in place a whistle-blowing policy under which employees may, in
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in such matters as financial reporting.
For the year under review, the Committee:
n has monitored the integrity of the financial statements, interim and final report and accounts and
relevant regulatory announcements;
n reviewed the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards and monitored the
implementation of appropriate changes to the Group’s accounting principles and policies;
n agreed the annual audit plan and has considered external auditor reports and has monitored and followed
up management actions in response to issues raised;
Corporate Governance
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 23
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 23 n met regularly with management and with internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness of
internal controls and business risk management and is satisfied that proper and satisfactory internal
controls remain in place to identify and contain business risk;
n reviewed and monitored the independence and objectivity of external auditors; and
n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of external auditors and reviews this annually. The
Committee is confident that in reviewing the external auditors’ Annual Audit Results Report, the objectivity and
independence of the auditors are not impaired by the provision of non-audit services. The Committee is satisfied
that such work is best handled by them due to knowledge of the Group. The Committee aims to have non-audit
work carried out in a manner that affords full value for money. 
It is considered appropriate for commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, to use the external
auditors for certain non-audit services. The amount of non-audit fees charged by auditors is disclosed in note 6 to
the accounts.
The Nominations Committee
The Committee is chaired by Mr H V Reid and its members are the Chief Executive and the three non-executive
directors Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray.
The Committee is responsible for proactively refreshing and reviewing the Board’s composition. The Committee
nominates, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and
structure. The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and takes into account the knowledge and
skills mix required by the Board in the future. The Committee meets as required and met twice during the year
when all Committee members attended. The Committee seeks the advice of external recruitment consultants as
necessary and follows a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that new appointments comply with the
principles set out in the Combined Code and satisfy the needs for the balance of the Board. Any appointments
are based on merit and against objective criteria, including the time available to, and the commitment which
will be required of, the potential director. 
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in
accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code to ensure that no director is involved in
discussions regarding his or her own succession. These terms of reference are available on the Company’s
website. The individual terms and conditions of appointment of directors can be inspected during normal office
hours at the Company’s registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year in review, the Committee:
n reviewed the plan for the retirement of directors by rotation and the framework for succession planning,
the operational reorganisation of the Group including the retirement of Mr G W Harrison and the
appointment of Mr W S Townsend as Chief Operating Officer;
n consulted with the Board regarding senior managerial appointments; and
n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
Corporate Governance
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 24 The Remuneration Committee
The Committee is chaired by Mr A J Stewart and its members are the two other non-executive directors Mr D A
Harding and Mrs S E Murray. The Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and
other benefits of the executive directors and senior management, including performance related bonus schemes
and the Chairman’s fee. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board.
The Committee appoints external remuneration consultants and advisers as necessary to provide remuneration
services and advice to the Remuneration Committee and the Company. The Committee met on four occasions
during the year and all Committee members were in attendance. 
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in
accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code. These are available on the Company’s
website. 
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles set out in the
Combined Code, are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report which includes details of directors’
remuneration and directors’ interests in options, together with information on service contracts, and is set out on
pages 28 to 37.
During the period in review, the Committee:
n determined the remuneration for executive directors and the Chairman;
n discussed levels of remuneration for senior manager appointments;
n determined the awards under the Company’s incentive arrangements under the Annual Bonus Plan and
Long Term Incentive Plan 2002 and 2005;
n agreed adjusted EPS figures for targets set out in the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans following the
adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards;
n agreed the content and presentation of the remuneration report for inclusion in the report and accounts;
and 
n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
Finance Committee and Disclosure/Monitoring Committees
The Board has delegated, within agreed terms of reference, responsibility for certain matters of a routine nature
which are not reserved for full Board consideration to a Finance Committee. This Committee comprises two
executive directors, one of which must be the Chief Financial Officer. In addition and to ensure full compliance
with its obligations under the Disclosure Rules published by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has
established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to
maintain adequate procedures, systems and controls to enable it to make timely and accurate disclosure of
information via a regulatory news service when it is impracticable to hold a full Board meeting. A separate
Monitoring Committee has been established to monitor compliance with UK Listing Principles, including a policy
based on the Model Code, which cover the dealings in securities and applies to directors, persons discharging
managerial responsibility and employee insiders.
Performance evaluation
Principle A.6 of the Combined Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors. During the year, the
Company has internally undertaken a critical self-assessment performance evaluation programme in accordance
with this principle and has effectively evaluated the Board, its Committees and its individual directors, including
the Chairman. 
Corporate Governance
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 25
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 25 Board performance evaluation 
The process was led by the Chairman and all directors completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to
score a number of performance criteria. The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the
Deputy Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board at a Board meeting when all
the directors were present. The review found that the Board’s performance is streamlined, constructive and
continues to be effective in dealing with challenging issues as and when they arise.
Board Committee performance evaluation
For the Board Committee performance evaluation processes each Committee Chairman and Committee
member completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria. The
results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Deputy Company Secretary and the Chairman
presented the findings to the Board. The review found that the Committees continued to deal efficiently with
their remits and concluded that the membership and structure of the Committees complemented the workings
of the Board.
Non-executive director performance evaluation
This process was led by the Chairman and all non-executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire
in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria. Each non-executive director then met on a
confidential basis with the Chairman to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail including any
matters arising from the evaluation of the Board and Committee performance. In addition, the Senior
Independent Director met with the other non-executives without the Chairman being present to review the
Chairman’s performance.
Executive director performance evaluation
This process was led by the Chief Executive and all executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire
and were asked to score a number of performance criteria. Each executive director then met on a confidential
basis with the Chief Executive to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail. Each executive
director is also set challenging performance objectives. The successful achievement of these objectives makes
up part of the short-term incentive criteria under the Annual Bonus Plan.
Shareholder relations
The Board places considerable importance on maintaining clear communications with its stakeholders directed
to ensuring a mutual understanding of its objectives and has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors
to discuss the progress of the business and deal with a wide range of enquiries. This includes direct face to face
contact, presentations after the preliminary announcement for the year and the results for the half year and
specific analyst presentations with feedback from the Company’s brokers as necessary.
During the year shareholders are also informed of the progress of the Company through announcements
released through the London Stock Exchange and made available on the website.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that views of major shareholders are fed
back to the non-executive directors on a regular basis. The effectiveness of how shareholder views are
communicated forms part of the annual Board performance evaluation process. Information about the Company,
including reports, announcements and presentations, is made available simultaneously on its website so that
shareholders have full access to material information. Directors regularly receive copies of analyst reports and
reports on movements in major shareholdings as well as key broker comments.
The Annual General Meeting, held in January each year, is the principal opportunity to encourage participation
by private investors and procedures at such meetings are in accordance with the Combined Code. The
Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General
Meeting to answer questions. Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 
16 January 2007 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 121 to 124. The Notice is sent by first
class post to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and details of proxy
votes for and against are made available after the result of hand votes. In accordance with the Combined Code,
the Company has proposed in the Notice separate resolutions on each substantial matter. Again this year the
Corporate Governance
26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 26 Company is, in accordance with the Myners Report, offering shareholders a facility for electronic proxy voting
and voting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service. The voting results are announced on the
same day to the London Stock Exchange and on the Company’s website.
The Company has considered innovative ways of communicating with shareholders and has given all its
shareholders the opportunity to register and receive shareholder communications, such as the report and
accounts, the interim report and notices of meetings, electronically via the Internet rather than in paper form
through the post in accordance with good investor practice.
Finally, the Company’s registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, deal with a wide range of investor
queries on behalf of shareholders. Details of additional shareholder services are set out on page 120.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal control for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. It
carries out such a review at least annually covering all material controls including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management systems.
An ongoing process on internal control has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by
the Group. This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and, with advice from its Audit Committee, is satisfied that
this meets the requirements of the guidance ‘Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’ issued by
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and the Turnbull guidance. The risk management
process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the
Group’s strategic objectives. It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. This process has been in place since the start of the financial year
and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as
follows:
n regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for directors’ consideration;
n the Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks facing the
business, and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board;
n an established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
n an established internal audit function which implements the annual internal audit plan as agreed by the
Committee; 
n documented and enforced policies and procedures;
n appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities;
n comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis,
with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances;
n a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects. Post-investment
appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board; and
n the Audit Committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial
control matters as appropriate.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Corporate Governance
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 27
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 27 Information not subject to audit:
Remuneration Committee and advisers
The Company’s Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) is composed entirely of independent non-executive
directors and is chaired by Mr A J Stewart, its other members being Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray. No
member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided. Mr H V Reid and
Mr G E Tuppen attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee, if necessary, except when their own
remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee’s key objectives are to:
n determine and recommend to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, an overall remuneration
package for executive directors; and 
n monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the year in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule A and B of the Combined Code. This report also complies with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act
1985 which incorporates the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
During the year the Committee and the Company have continued to use the services of Ernst & Young LLP
(E&Y) who have provided specific advice on remuneration matters relating to share schemes and the Enterprise
Inns Incentive Plans (and who were appointed by the Committee for this purpose). E&Y are the Group’s auditors
and also provide advisory services in respect of non-audit matters and taxation. In addition, the Committee has
sought advice relating to directors’ remuneration and the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plan 2005 from New Bridge
Street Consultants LLP (who were appointed by the Committee and who provide no other services to the
Company save in respect of advice in connection with the operation of the Company’s incentive schemes). 
The Committee, amongst other matters, determines the level of awards made under the Company’s incentive
plans, considers feedback from shareholders and undertakes an annual review of its effectiveness.
When setting the remuneration of the executive directors, due regard is given by the Committee to pay and
conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Remuneration Policy — Executive Directors 
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is designed to ensure that the level and structure of remuneration
arrangements allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the exceptional individuals required to
continue to enhance shareholder value. Base salaries will be set accordingly, with a significant proportion of
executive directors’ remuneration performance-related so that appropriate levels of reward are available for
outstanding performance. In addition, the Committee is, at all times, mindful of remuneration practices in other
relevant companies. 
To achieve this, the remuneration package comprises:
n fixed elements: comprising basic salary, benefits and pensions; and
n performance related elements: comprising short-term performance related cash and deferred share
bonuses and long-term incentive arrangements satisfied by the award of shares. 
It is the Committee’s policy that the performance related elements of the package should equate to around 60% of
total remuneration for the executive directors based on an on-target, expected value approach to valuing the package.
The Committee believes that these performance related incentive arrangements provide rewards which reflect an
appropriate balance between individual and Group performance and align the rewards to executive directors with the
long-term interest of shareholders. Share-based awards are satisfied by the use of existing shares held by an Employee
Benefit Trust.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
28 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 28 The details of individual components of the remuneration package and service contracts are as follows:
Basic salary and benefits
Basic salary is a fixed cash sum payable monthly. The basic salary and benefits are reviewed annually against
appropriate comparators and taking account of individual performance. Benefits principally comprise car
allowances or the use of a motor car, fuel and private medical insurances. 
Pensions
The pension contributions are amounts equal to 25% of basic salary.
Current Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans (the ‘Plans’)
For the year in review the Company had the following relevant Plans:
n at the Annual General Meeting held on 24 January 2002 an ordinary resolution was passed adopting the
Enterprise Inns Incentive Plan 2002 (‘the 2002 Plan’). The 2002 Plan provided for participants to earn
non-pensionable cash bonuses and short-term and long-term share incentives; and
n at the Annual General Meeting held on 20 January 2005 ordinary resolutions were passed adopting the
Enterprise Inns 2005 Annual Bonus Plan and the Enterprise Inns 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘the
2005 Plan’). 
The 2005 Plan has replaced the 2002 Plan and no further awards will be made except under the 2005 Plan.
Further details of the Plans are set out below:
Short-term share incentives under the 2002 Plan
Under the terms of the 2002 Plan, the short-term incentive depended upon achievement of annual growth in
adjusted EPS measured against RPI. There was a one year performance period for awards. No short-term award
was made unless adjusted EPS growth exceeded RPI by at least 2.5% over the performance period. To achieve
the maximum award of 20% of salary, adjusted EPS growth must have exceeded RPI by 15%. Awards between
the minimum and maximum limits were calculated on a straight-line basis pro rata to the growth in adjusted
EPS between the minimum and maximum targets. Short-term incentives may not ordinarily be exercised for 36
months after the end of the performance criteria period and then remain exercisable for a further period of 72
months. 
Short-term cash and share incentives under the 2005 Plan
Under the terms of the 2005 Plan executive directors are eligible to participate in an annual cash bonus
scheme as determined by the Committee. The maximum award level under the 2005 Plan for the Chief
Executive is 100% of salary. For the other executive directors the maximum award level is 75% of salary. Awards
under the 2005 Plan are subject to demanding Company performance targets such that no less than 75% of an
executive’s bonus will be subject to a sliding scale of challenging annual adjusted EPS growth targets, with no
more than 25% subject to challenging personal targets. 60% of any bonus earned will be paid in cash, with the
remaining 40% deferred into shares (a deferred share award). Deferred share awards may not ordinarily be
exercised for 36 months after the end of the performance criteria period and then remain exercisable for a
further period of 6 months. Awards between the minimum and maximum limits are calculated on a straight-line
basis pro rata to the growth in adjusted EPS between the minimum and maximum targets.
The cash bonus awards for the year are shown in the remuneration table on page 33.
Long-term share incentives under the 2002 Plan
Under the 2002 Plan, awards of ordinary shares were made to participants upon achievement of compound
growth in adjusted EPS measured against RPI over 3 years. To qualify for any award, adjusted EPS growth must
have exceeded RPI over a three year period by 5% compound (15.8% simple), and to qualify for the maximum
award of 100% of salary (averaged over a three year period), adjusted EPS growth must have exceeded RPI over
a three year period by 20% compound (72.8% simple). Awards between the minimum and maximum limits are
calculated on a straight-line basis pro rata to the growth in adjusted EPS between the minimum and maximum
targets. Long-term incentives may not ordinarily be exercised until 24 months after the end of the performance
criteria period and then remain exercisable for a further period of 108 months. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 29
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 29 Long-term share incentives under the 2005 Plan
Under the 2005 Plan, long-term incentive awards have two elements:
n an award of Performance Shares (worth up to 150% of salary each year); and 
n an award of Matching Shares linked to the co-investment of up to 25% of salary in ‘Investment Shares’,
which are then matched on a 2:1 basis. 
Shares that can count as Investment Shares are:
n shares subject to the Deferred Share Award under the 2005 Plan; and
n shares acquired by participants using their cash bonus or other funds, up to the 25% of salary maximum.
Performance Share and Matching Share awards vest subject to the satisfaction of a sliding scale of average
compound annual adjusted EPS growth targets and the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE 100.
More specifically, for awards made under the 2005 Plan in the past and (it is currently intended) in the future,
one-half of an award will be subject to a performance condition based on average compound annual adjusted
EPS growth. This EPS based condition will measure the Company’s average compound annual adjusted EPS
growth by comparing the Company’s adjusted EPS for the year prior to the date of grant (the ‘base year’) with
the adjusted EPS for the third financial year following the base year, such that awards will vest as follows:
Level of match under the relevant 
Percentage of relevant portion of Matching Award
Average compound portion of Performance (Matching Award Shares: 
annual adjusted EPS growth Award that vests Investment Shares)
Less than 7% 0% 0:1
7% 20% 0.4:1
15% 100% 2:1
Straight-line vesting will occur if average compound annual adjusted EPS growth is between 7 per cent and 15
per cent. 
The remaining half of the award will be subject to a TSR condition which compares the Company’s TSR
performance over the three year period commencing on the date of grant with the TSR of the FTSE 100 (as at
the date of grant) as follows:
Level of match under the relevant 
Percentage of relevant portion of Matching Award
Company’s TSR ranking v. portion of Performance (Matching Award Shares: 
the FTSE 100 Award that vests Investment Shares)
Below median 0% 0:1
Median 20% 0.4:1
Upper quintile 100% 2:1
Straight-line vesting will occur if the Company’s TSR ranking is between median and upper quintile. 
All awards vest in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant and remain
exercisable for a further period of 6 months. 
TSR will be calculated by averaging the Net Return Index of each company over the six month period prior to
grant and vesting, unless the Committee determines that a shorter or longer period is a more appropriate way
of ensuring that the condition constitutes a fair measure of the Company’s TSR performance over the period. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
30 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 30 In addition, irrespective of the Company’s TSR performance, no part of this portion of the award will vest unless
the Company’s adjusted EPS grows by at least 10% over the performance period, unless the Committee believes
that it is inappropriate to apply this underpin.
For the avoidance of doubt, if both the threshold TSR hurdle of median performance against the FTSE 100 and
the threshold adjusted EPS growth hurdle of 7% average compound annual adjusted growth are met, 20% of the
total award will vest. 
The Committee believes that these performance conditions are appropriate for the following reasons:
n the adjusted EPS growth targets will encourage the executive team to deliver substantial annual 
adjusted EPS growth over the three year performance period; and
n the TSR targets will require the Company to deliver returns to shareholders in excess of its FTSE 100
peers.
The Committee will, however, review the appropriateness of these performance conditions (and the operation of
the 2005 Plan as a whole) on a regular basis in light of the Company’s circumstances and prospects. The
Committee will seek independent advice to determine the extent to which the adjusted EPS growth and TSR
targets are met.
In particular, the Committee will seek independent advice as to how to determine the extent to which EPS-based
performance targets have been met in light of the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, with
the Committee’s objective of achieving a consistent measurement of performance.
Remuneration Policy — Non-executive directors
The fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Board within the limits in the Articles of Association.
The non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decision about their own remuneration.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely of fees, which are set by the Board having
taken advice on appropriate levels in light of the time commitment and responsibilities of each individual. The
Chairman’s fee is approved by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
Service contracts
The Company’s policy is for all executive directors to have a service contract of no fixed term under which they
are entitled to receive twelve months’ notice of termination. There are no special provisions in the executive
directors’ contracts for compensation in the event of loss of office. The Committee would consider the
circumstances of any individual case of early termination and would determine compensation payments
accordingly. A fair but robust principle of mitigation would be applied to the payment of compensation in the
context of professional advice received as to contractual entitlement.
The service contracts of the executive directors include the following terms:
Executive Directors Date of Agreement Effective Date Notice Period
G E Tuppen 25 October 1995 1 October 1995 12 months
D C George 25 October 1995 1 October 1995 12 months
W S Townsend 31 October 2000 1 October 2000 12 months
The terms of appointment for Mr H V Reid, Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray reflect best
practice. Their respective appointments shall continue on an annual basis from AGM to AGM, subject to re-
election, when applicable. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 31
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 31 In respect of the Chairman and non-executive directors, the dates on which their appointments took effect and
the current expiry dates are as follows:
Chairman and 
non-executive directors Date of Appointment Expiry Date
H V Reid 21 January 1997 Terminable on 12 months’ notice
A J Stewart 29 May 2001 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
D A Harding 6 November 2003 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
S E Murray 3 November 2004 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
Biographical details of all directors can be found on pages 13 and 14.
Forward-looking statement
The Committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as detailed in this report, under review
during the next year to ensure that the Company’s reward programmes remain competitive and provide
appropriate incentives.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the TSR, in terms of the change in value (with dividends re-invested) of an initial
investment of £100 on 30 September 2001 in a holding of the Company’s shares against the corresponding
TSR in a hypothetical holding of shares in the companies represented in the FTSE 100 index.
The FTSE 100 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company is a
constituent member. The graph shows that the Company has outperformed the index over this period.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
32 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
Enterprise Inns plc TSR Chart
30 Sept 01 30 Sept 02 30 Sept 03 30 Sept 04 30 Sept 05 30 Sept 06
Enterprise Inns plc
FTSE 100
Value (£)
220
89
78
528
412
274
128
103
128
144
600
550
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 32 Information subject to audit:
Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and fees payable to the non-executive directors are as
follows:
£000 Performance
Chairman and Basic related Total Total
non-executive directors Fees salary Benefits (a) bonus (b) 2006 2005
H V Reid 180 — — — 180 160
A J Stewart 50 — — — 50 43
D A Harding 45 — — — 45 40
S E Murray 40 — — — 40 32
M F Garner
(retired 20/01/05) — — — — — 13
Executive directors
G E Tuppen — 525 23 315 863 789
D C George — 315 20 142 477 438
G W Harrison (c) — 270 23 122 415 376
W S Townsend — 270 20 118 408 364
315 1,380 86 697 2,478 2,255
(a) Benefits include car allowances or the use of a motor car, fuel, private medical insurances and professional
fees.
(b) The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for performance related bonuses or share awards
under the Plans. The bonus disclosed relates to the cash bonus awarded under the 2005 Plan and earned
in the year ended 30 September 2006. The performance related and deferred bonus payment reflects
another year of excellent performance by the Company. Details of the share awards made under the Plans
are shown separately in this report. 
(c) G W Harrison retired from the Board on 30 September 2006. On 16 October 2006 the Company entered
into a new employment contract with Mr Harrison for a term of two years at a salary of £10,000 per
annum. 
The pension contributions paid to the directors’ individual defined contribution schemes are shown below:
2006 2005
Executive directors £000 £000
G E Tuppen 131 120
D C George 79 72
G W Harrison 68 63
W S Townsend 68 60
346 315
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 33
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 33 Interest in options
The executive directors and other employees are able to acquire shares in the Company by participating in the
Enterprise Inns Savings Related Share Options Scheme and options granted under this scheme, together with
details of options exercised during the year, are set out in the table below. There are no performance conditions
restricting the exercise of options held under this scheme (reflecting the relevant legislation).
Exercise At At Market Aggregate
price 1 Oct 30 Sept price at gain
Name £ 2005 Exercised Lapsed Granted 2006 exercise £ £000
G E Tuppen 1.245 13,484 (13,484) — — — 9.265 108
7.07 — — — 2,277 2,277(ii) ——
13,484 (13,484) — 2,277 2,277 108
D C George 1.245 13,484 (13,484) — — — 9.265 108
7.07 — — — 2,277 2,277(ii) ——
13,484 (13,484) — 2,277 2,277 108
G W Harrison 1.245 10,788 (10,788) — — — 9.265 86
2.320 1,414 — (1,414) — ——
12,202 (10,788) (1,414) — — 86
W S Townsend 1.245 5,392 (5,392) — — — 9.265 43
2.095 4,732 — — — 4,732(i) ——
7.07 — — — 910 910(ii) — —
10,124 (5,392) — 910 5,642 43
Notes:
(i) Exercise period 01/02/2007 – 01/08/2007.
(ii) Exercise period 01/02/2011 – 01/08/2011.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
34 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 34 Short-term share incentives
Details of short-term awards made under the 2002 and 2005 Plans, together with details of awards exercised during the year, are set
out in the table below:
Market
At At Market Aggregate value
Date of 1 Oct 30 Sept price at gain £000 Exercisable
grant 2005 Granted Exercised 2006 exercise £ £000 (iii) From To
G E Tuppen
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 16,902 — (16,902) — 10.355 175 — — —
2002 Plan 22/12/2003 12,049(i) — — 12,049 — — 127 1/10/2007 22/12/2013
2005 Plan 01/12/2004 21,805(ii) — 21,805 — — 230 17/11/2008 17/05/2009
2005 Plan 24/01/2006 — 19,905(iv) — 19,905 — — 210(v) 14/11/2009 14/05/2010
50,756 19,905 (16,902) 53,759 175
D C George
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 10,142 — (10,142) — 10.355 105 — — —
2002 Plan 22/12/2003 7,229(i) — — 7,229 — — 76 1/10/2007 22/12/2013
2005 Plan 01/12/2004 9,812(ii) — 9,812 — — 104 17/11/2008 17/05/2009
2005 Plan 24/01/2006 — 8,957(iv) — 8,957 — — 95(v) 14/11/2009 14/05/2010
27,183 8,957 (10,142) 25,998 105
G W Harrison
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 9,296 — (9,296) — 10.355 96 — — —
2002 Plan 22/12/2003 6,627(i) — — 6,627 — — 70 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
2005 Plan 01/12/2004 8,128(ii) — 8,128 — — 86 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
2005 Plan 24/01/2006 — 7,678(iv) — 7,678 — — 81(v) 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
24,051 7,678 (9,296) 22,433 96
W S Townsend
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 8,028 — (8,028) — 10.355 83 — — —
2002 Plan 22/12/2003 5,849(i) — — 5,849 — — 62 1/10/2007 22/12/2013
2005 Plan 01/12/2004 7,959(ii) — 7,959 — — 84 17/11/2008 17/05/2009
2005 Plan 24/01/2006 — 7,472(iv) — 7,472 — — 79(v) 14/11/2009 14/05/2010
21,836 7,472 (8,028) 21,280 83
Notes:
(i) These shares have vested and have been used to count towards the participant’s co-investment in Investment Shares for the
purposes of calculating the Matching Share award for the financial year 2004/05 under the 2005 Plan, details of which are set
out below.
(ii) These shares have vested and have been used to count towards the participant’s co-investment in Investment Shares for the
purposes of calculating the Matching Share award for the financial year 2005/06 under the 2005 Plan, details of which are set
out below.
(iii) Market value is calculated using the mid market price of the ordinary shares at 30 September 2006 being £10.55.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
JOB 12997 — PROOF 04 — 04/12/2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 35
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 35 (iv) The share price at which the number of deferred shares granted under the STIP scheme is calculated will not be confirmed until
after the date of the approval of the accounts. The number of STIP deferred shares granted during the year is therefore estimated
using the mid market price of the ordinary shares at 30 September 2006 being £10.55.
(v) Market value is based on a percentage of basic salary earned as a result of achievement of performance objectives for the year
2005/06. These awards have become unconditional since the end of the financial year. It is intended that these awards will be
used towards the participant’s co-investment in Investment Shares for the purposes of calculating the Matching Share award for
the financial year 2006/07 under the 2005 Plan, details of which are set out below.
£1 in aggregate is payable by the participants on the exercise of each year’s short-term incentive award.
Long-term share incentives
Details of long-term awards made under the 2002 and 2005 Plans, together with details of awards exercised during the year, are set
out in the table below:
Awarded Market
At Perform- Awarded At Market Aggregate value
Date of 1 Oct ance Matching 30 Sept price at gain £000 Exercisable
grant 2005 Shares Shares Exercised Lapsed 2006exercise £ £000 (v) From To
G E Tuppen
2002 Plan 16/04/2002 173,152 — — (173,152) — — 10.355 1,793 — — —
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 157,211 — — — — 157,211 — — 1,659 1/10/2007 20/12/2016
2002 Plan 22/12/2003(i) 104,735 — — — — 104,735 — — 1,105 1/10/2008 22/12/2017
2005 Plan 04/02/2005(ii) 140,370 — — — — 140,370 — — 1,481 4/02/2008 4/02/2010
2005 Plan 19/12/2005(iii) — 89,437 29,812 — — 119,249 — — 1,258 19/12/2008 19/12/2010
575,468 89,437 29,812 (173,152) — 521,565 1,793
D C George
2002 Plan 16/04/2002 103,697 — — (103,697) — — 10.355 1,074 — — —
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 94,327 — — — — 94,327 — — 995 1/10/2007 20/12/2016
2002 Plan 22/12/2003(i) 62,841 — — — — 62,841 — — 663 1/10/2008 22/12/2017
2005 Plan 04/02/2005(ii) 84,221 — — — — 84,221 — — 889 4/02/2008 4/02/2010
2005 Plan 19/12/2005(iii) — 53,662 17,887 — — 71,549 — — 755 19/12/2008 19/12/2010
345,086 53,662 17,887 (103,697) — 312,938 1,074
G W Harrison
2002 Plan 16/04/2002 94,265 — — (94,265) — — 10.355 976 — — —
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 84,332 — — — — 84,332 — — 890 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
2002 Plan 22/12/2003(i) 54,952 — — — — 54,952 — — 580 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
2005 Plan 04/02/2005(ii) 73,693 — — — (24,565)(iv) 49,128 — — 518 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
2005 Plan 19/12/2005(iii) — 45,996 15,332 — (40,885)(iv) 20,443 — — 216 1/10/2006 30/09/2008
307,242 45,996 15,332 (94,265) (65,450) 208,855 976
W S Townsend
2002 Plan 16/04/2002 82,269 — — (82,269) — 10.355 852 — — —
2002 Plan 20/12/2002 77,064 —— —— 77,064 — — 813 1/10/2007 20/12/2016
2002 Plan 22/12/2003(i) 52,692 — — — — 52,692 — — 556 1/10/2008 22/12/2017
2005 Plan 04/02/2005(ii) 70,185 — — — — 70,185 — — 740 4/02/2008 4/02/2010
2005 Plan 19/12/2005(iii) — 45,996 15,332 — — 61,328 — — 647 19/12/2008 19/12/2010
282,210 45,996 15,332 (82,269) — 261,269 852
Directors’ Remuneration Report
36 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 36 Notes:
(i) The award is calculated using average salary paid to participants between 1 October 2003 and 30
September 2006. Market value of each share awarded is taken at the start of the incentive period (461.8
pence). As compound adjusted EPS growth over the performance criteria period has exceeded the target of
15% per annum which is the level for the achievement of the maximum award under the scheme, these
awards will vest and the number of shares to be awarded are shown above subject to approval by the
Remuneration Committee.
(ii) The award is calculated at a maximum of 150% of salary at the start of the performance period (1 October
2005 to 30 September 2008). Market value is calculated on the average share price over the 5 dealing days
following announcement of the results for the financial year 2003/04 (683.9 pence).
(iii) The award is calculated at a maximum of 150% of salary at the start of the performance period (1 October
2005 to 30 September 2008). Market value is calculated on the average share price over the 5 dealing days
following announcement of the results for the financial year 2004/05 (880.5 pence).
(iv) G W Harrison retired on 30 September 2006 and the awards shown are based on a pro rata adjustment of
the shares awarded over the reduced performance period.
(v) Market value is calculated using the mid market price of the ordinary shares at 30 September 2006 being
£10.55 per share. 
The high and low share prices during the year were £10.70 and £7.735 pence respectively.
The fair value of short-term and long-term incentive plans recognised as a cost in the Income Statement during
the year is shown in note 9 to the accounts on page 52. 
Shareholders are invited to approve this report at the Annual General Meeting on 16 January 2007, details of
which are set out on pages 121 to 127.
On behalf of the Board
A J Stewart
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 November 2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 37
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 37 2006 2005 (Restated)#
Pre- Pre-
exceptionalExceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2 970 — 970 952 — 952
Cost of sales 3 (387) — (387) (385) — (385)
Gross profit 583 — 583 567 — 567
Administrative expenses (36) (2) (38) (39) — (39)
EBITDA† 4 547 (2) 545 528 — 528
Depreciation and amortisation (8) — (8) (10) — (10)
Operating profit 5 539 (2) 537 518 — 518
Net profit on sale of property, 
plant and equipment 7 — 67 67 — 14 14
Movements from revaluation of pub estate 8 — (2) (2) — (4) (4)
Interest receivable 6 —6 9 —9
Interest payable 10 (230) — (230) (237) — (237)
Write off of unamortised issue costs 10 — (3) (3) — (5) (5)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps 10 — 40 40 — (20) (20)
Total finance costs 10 (230) 37 (193) (237) (25) (262)
Profit before tax 315 100 415 290 (15) 275
Taxation 11 (95) 5 (90) (90) 24 (66)
Profit after tax attributable
to members of the parent company 220 105 325 200 9 209
Earnings per share
Basic 12 100.9p 61.0p
Basic diluted 12 100.1p 60.3p
Adjusted * 12 68.3p 58.4p
Adjusted diluted * 12 67.8p 57.7p
Dividends
Dividends paid per share in respect of the year 13 9.0p 5.6p
Dividends proposed per share in 
respect of the year 13 18.0p 12.4p
27.0p 18.0p
# See note 1.
† Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
* Excludes exceptional items
Group Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2006
38 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 38 Group Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
for the year ended 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 39
Re-stated#
2006 2005
£m £m
Unrealised surplus on revaluation of licensed estate 323 273
Movement in deferred tax liability related to revaluation of licensed estate (91) (74)
Deferred tax related to share schemes recognised directly in equity 5 7
Write-down of non-current assets held for sale (see note 1) — (4)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme — 1
Net income recognised directly in equity 237 203
Profit for the year 325 209
Total recognised income and expense 
for the year attributable to members of the parent company 562 412
# See note 1.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 39 Group Balance Sheet
at 30 September 2006
40 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Re-stated#
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 417 417
Investments 15 2 —
Intangible assets: operating lease premiums 16 24 27
Property, plant and equipment 17 5,343 5,157
Financial assets 22 1 —
5,787 5,601
Current assets
Assets held for sale 18 6 7
Trade and other receivables 19 94 81
Cash 111 96
Financial assets 22 1 —
212 184
Non-current assets held for sale 20 10 36
Total assets 6,009 5,821
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (210) (217)
Current tax payable (52) (46)
Financial liabilities 22 (54) (122)
Provisions 24 (1) (1)
(317) (386)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 22 (3,316) (3,260)
Accruals and deferred income (4) (5)
Provisions 24 (4) (7)
Deferred tax 25 (692) (590)
(4,016) (3,862)
Total liabilities (4,333) (4,248)
Net assets 1,676 1,573
Equity
Called up share capital 27 16 17
Share premium account 29 486 486
Revaluation reserve 29 845 667
Capital redemption reserve 29 9 8
Merger reserve 29 77 77
Treasury share reserve 29 (227) —
Other reserve 29 (42) (56)
Profit and loss account 29 512 374
Enterprise Inns shareholders' equity 29 1,676 1,573
# See note 1.
Approved by the Board on 21 November 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
G E Tuppen
D C George
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 40 Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 41
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Operating profit 537 518
Depreciation and amortisation 8 10
Share-based expense recognised in profit 3 3
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (10) 5
Decrease in payables (2) (12)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (3) 2
Decrease/(increase) in current assets held for sale 1 (2)
534 524
Tax paid (69) (53)
Net cash flows from operating activities 465 471
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments to acquire public houses (80) (14)
Payments made on improvements to public houses (54) (49)
Payments to acquire other property, plant and equipment (7) (1)
Receipts from sale of property, plant and equipment 362 47
Net cash flows from investing activities 221 (17)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (234) (244)
Interest received 7 9
Issue costs of long-term loans (4) (2)
Equity dividends paid (70) (48)
Payments to acquire shares held in employee benefit trust (17) (23)
Payments to acquire own shares (388) —
Receipts from exercise of share options 5 3
Restructuring of interest rate swaps (30) —
Debt due beyond one year — new long-term loans 602 771
Debt due beyond one year — repayment of long-term loans (542) (971)
Net cash flows from financing activities (671) (505)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash 15 (51)
Cash at 1 October 96 147
Cash at 30 September 111 96
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 41 1. Accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2006 were authorised
for issue by the Board on 21 November 2006. Enterprise Inns plc is a public limited company incorporated and
registered in England. The Company's ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union.
This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its Group financial statements under IFRS and the
comparatives have been restated from UK GAAP accordingly. The Group issued a press release on 4 May 2006
which detailed the impact of transition to IFRS and included detailed reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS of the
2005 Income Statement and Balance Sheet. These reconciliations are included in note 33 along with a narrative
explanation of the adjustments made.
Since the publication of the Restatement of Financial Information under IFRS released in May 2006, the Group has
amended the 2005 Income Statement and Balance Sheet in respect of the application of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current
assets held for sale and discontinued operations’. This amendment relates to the treatment of the write-down of
property on classification as ‘held for sale' under IFRS 5. The write-down to fair value less costs to sell is first
recognised in the Revaluation Reserve, to the extent of any existing surplus for the asset. It is then recognised in
the Income Statement within the line ‘movements from revaluation of pub estate'. Previously, the entire write-
down was recognised in the Income Statement within the line ‘Net profit on sale of property, plant and
equipment’. The impact of this amendment is as follows:
n Net profit on sale of property has been increased by £11 million being the amount previously recognised on
write-down of pubs identified for sale.
n The first £4 million of these write-downs has been recognised in the Revaluation Reserve against surpluses that
existed for the individual pubs concerned.
n The remaining £7 million of write downs has been recognised within the line ‘movement from revaluation of
pub estate’, reducing the previously reported credit to a £4 million charge.
n Profit before tax has been increased by £4 million, being the combination of the amendments above.
n The tax credit within exceptional items has been reduced by £1 million being the deferred tax impact of the
amendments made.
n Profit after tax is therefore increased by £3 million being the post-tax impact of the amendments made. 
In addition to the above amendment, the 2005 Balance Sheet has been reclassified in respect of the application
of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’.
The interaction of these two standards means that all derivatives that are not part of a designated and effective
hedging relationship should be classified as current assets or liabilities. The Group has therefore reclassified the
fair value of all interest swaps as current liabilities in 2005. Previously, the fair value of the swaps was allocated
between ‘current’ and ‘non-current’ liabilities. £86m of fair value was previously classified as non-current and this
amount has therefore been re-classified as current. 
Consolidated accounts are drawn up to 30 September each year and adjustments are made to the accounts of the
subsidiaries where necessary to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
42 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 42 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in
a business combination. Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested
for impairment annually, or more frequently where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may be impaired. On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the
determination of profit or loss on sale. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 1998 was written off against reserves and has not been
reinstated. Any such goodwill is not included in determining any profit or loss on disposal. 
Property, plant and equipment
Licensed land and buildings are held at their fair value and landlords’ fixtures and fittings and other assets are
held at cost. The Group’s licensed land and buildings, except for those non-current assets held for sale, is
revalued each year by professionally qualified external valuers and employees who are professionally qualified to
carry out such valuations. Surpluses arising from the revaluation exercise are taken directly to the revaluation
reserve except where they reverse a revaluation decrease relating to the same asset which has previously been
recognised as an expense in the Income Statement. Any deficit arising from the revaluation exercise is taken
directly to the revaluation reserve to the extent that there is a surplus in place relating to the same asset. Any
further decrease in value is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Freehold buildings are depreciated so as to write off the difference between
their carrying value and residual value over their useful economic life of 50 years. Residual value is reviewed at
least at each financial year end and there is no depreciable amount if residual value is the same as, or exceeds,
book value. 
Landlords’ fixtures and fittings are held at cost less accumulated depreciation. The useful economic life of
additions to landlords’ fixtures and fittings has been calculated at 30 years. Depreciation is charged on a straight-
line basis to write off the total cost less residual value over their useful economic life. 
Properties held under finance leases are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lower of the remaining lease
term and their useful economic life of 50 years. Depreciation is provided on other categories of property, plant
and equipment over 3 to 50 years on a straight-line basis to residual value.
Profits or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are calculated as the difference between the net
sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the date of disposal. 
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually for indications of impairment. Where any indications are
identified, assets are assessed fully for impairment. Impairment occurs where the recoverable amount of the asset
is less than its carrying amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
value in use. Any impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a surplus exists for the
same asset, and thereafter as an expense in the Income Statement. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 43
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 43 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Leases
Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Pubs acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present value of future
lease payments. The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease payable. Pubs held
under finance leases are revalued along with the freehold estate on an annual basis. Lease payments are
apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease payable so as to obtain a constant rate of interest
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged as an expense to the Income Statement. 
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as
operating leases. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis to the Income
Statement over the lease term. The fair value attributed to pubs acquired as part of business combinations that
are held as operating leases are classified in the balance sheet as ‘intangible assets: lease premiums’ within non-
current assets and are amortised over the lease term. 
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying value and expected sale proceeds, net of
selling costs. Pubs and operating lease intangibles are classified as held for sale when they have been identified
for disposal by the Group. They must be available for immediate sale in their present condition and the sale
should be highly probable. These conditions are met when management are committed to the sale, the pub or
lease is actively marketed and the sale is expected to occur within one year. Pubs held for sale are not
depreciated and operating lease intangibles held for sale are not amortised. 
Current assets held for sale
Current assets held for sale comprises tenants' fixtures and fittings and are held at the lower of cost and net
realisable value. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be
incurred on disposal.
Repairs and Maintenance
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Income Statement as incurred. 
Financial instruments
i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash at bank and in hand. Any short-term deposits with an original maturity date of three months
or less are classified as cash equivalents. 
ii) Borrowings
Borrowings which include bank borrowings, syndicated debt finance, debentures, secured bonds and securitised
bonds are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost. This method is used
to ensure that the interest charge associated with the debt, combined with the amortisation of the issue costs,
premiums and discounts, represents a constant percentage of the borrowings across the life of the instrument.
iii) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the exposure to changes in interest rates and these are classified as
derivative financial instruments. Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value on acquisition and are
subsequently restated to fair value at each reporting date. Any change in the fair value of the instruments is
recognised in the Income Statement unless hedge accounting has been adopted. Hedge accounting is only adopted
where, at the inception of the hedge, there is formal designation documentation of the hedging relationship and it
meets the Group's risk management strategy for undertaking the hedge, and it is expected to be highly effective.
Where hedge accounting is adopted for interest rate swaps, they are classified as cash flow hedges. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
44 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 44 1. Accounting policies (continued)
iii) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
The portion of any change in the fair value of the hedging instrument used in a cash flow hedge which meets the
conditions for hedge accounting and is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity.
Changes in fair value relating to any ineffective portions are recognised in the Income Statement. Hedge
accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses arising from changes in the
fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in equity are kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
In the case of interest rate swaps, the ‘forecast transaction' is the payment of interest.
iv) Equity instruments
Equity instruments, being ordinary shares issued by the Company, are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds
received, net of any direct issue costs. The nominal value of shares issued is recorded in Share Capital and the
balance of the net proceeds is recorded in Share Premium. 
Net debt
Net debt is the total of all financial assets and liabilities less cash. Underlying net debt is amounts repayable to
banks and other lenders, net of cash retained in the business.
Taxation
The income tax expense comprises both the income tax payable based on taxable profits for the year and deferred
tax. Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences between
the carrying value of assets and liabilities for accounting and tax purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised to
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
No deferred tax is recognised if the taxable temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial recognition of
an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects
neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. 
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised
amounts and the intention is to either settle on a net basis or realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets
and liabilities and the assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority which are intended to
be settled net or simultaneously. 
Both current and deferred tax are recognised in the Income Statement except when it relates to items recognised
directly in equity, in which case the corresponding tax is also recognised in equity. Tax is calculated using tax
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events,
it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably
estimated. If the effect is material, the amount of the provision is discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The amount of the
provision would therefore represent the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the
obligation. 
Pension obligations
The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension arrangements. The cost of defined
contribution payments made to employees’ own pension plans is charged to the Income Statement as incurred. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 45
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 45 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Pension obligations
The defined benefit scheme is now closed to new members and for the future accrual of benefits. The net amount
recognised on the balance sheet comprises the difference between the present value of the scheme’s liabilities
and the fair value of the scheme’s assets. This is determined annually by qualified actuaries using the projected
unit credit method. Current service cost and past service cost are charged to operating profit. The net of the
expected return on scheme assets and interest on scheme liabilities is recognised within finance income or
finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement
of recognised income and expense.
Treasury shares
The cost of own shares held in employee benefit trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders’ equity until
the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Any proceeds received are also taken to shareholders’ equity. No
gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of own shares held. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of
discounts and VAT. Revenue is measured as the fair value of consideration received or receivable. Sales of
beverages are recognised when these goods are delivered to our customers. Rents receivable are recognised on a
straight-line basis over the life of the lease. Amusement machine royalties are recognised in the accounting
period to which the income relates. 
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a distinguishable component of an entity that provides a product or service that is subject
to risks and returns that are different to those of other segments. The Group has one business segment, being the
operation of a leased and tenanted pub estate. The Group operates solely within the UK and therefore also has
just one geographical segment.
Share-based payments 
The Group has applied the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied its requirements to those awards granted
after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2005. 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment schemes for employees. Share-based
payments are measured at fair value at the date of award and this value is subsequently updated at each balance
sheet date for management’s best estimate of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions on the number
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The fair value is recognised as an expense over the vesting period
by calculating the cumulative expense and recognising the movement in the cumulative expense in the Income
Statement. A corresponding entry is made to equity. The fair value of share options is measured using valuation
models. 
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability when they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Operating profit
Operating profit as referred to in the Income Statement is defined as being profit generated from normal trading
activities before interest receivable, finance costs and taxation.
Exceptional items
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the
Income Statement. Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their size
or nature to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and include the following:
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
46 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 46 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Exceptional administrative costs
The exceptional item shown within administrative costs relates to restructuring costs.
Net profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
Net profit arising from the sale of property, plant and equipment.
Movements from revaluation of pub estate 
Under IFRS any revaluation that causes the book value of a pub to fall below historic cost will lead to a charge in
the Income Statement. If that same pub later recovers in value so that its book value exceeds historic cost, the
increase in value is credited to the Income Statement to the extent that a debit was previously recognised. Where
pubs identified for disposal are written down to ‘fair value less costs to sell', this write-down is also recognised in
this line. Most of the impact of the annual revaluation exercise is accounted for in equity and recognised in the
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. 
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps
Under IFRS the interest rate swaps are revalued to fair value at each Balance Sheet date and the movement is
recognised in the Income Statement unless hedge accounting is adopted. The movement in the fair value of
swaps where hedge accounting is not applied is shown as an exceptional item. 
Tax
Under IFRS, a deferred tax liability has been recognised on the balance sheet relating to the pub estate. On
transition to IFRS, the Group elected to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions from 1 January 1999. This led
to an increase in goodwill in respect of this deferred tax. As this pre-acquisition liability reduces due to capital
gains indexation relief, a credit is recognised in the Income Statement. This has been classified as an exceptional
tax item due to its size and because it does not relate to any income or expense recognised in the Income
Statement in the same period. All other movements in respect of this deferred tax liability are accounted for in
equity and recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. 
The tax effect of all other exceptional items is also included within the exceptional items column in the Income
Statement. 
New standards and interpretations
The Group has elected to early adopt IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure’ which is not yet mandatory for
adoption:
During the year, a number of other new standards and interpretations were issued with an effective date after the
date of these financial statements. The following standards which are relevant to the Group are not expected to
have a material impact on the financial statements although the Amendment to IAS 1 may require some
additional disclosure. The effective dates below represent the latest date that the Group will be required to
implement the standard:
n Amendment to IAS 1 — Capital Disclosures — effective from 1 October 2007
n IFRIC 4 — Determining whether an arrangement constitutes a lease — effective from 1 October 2006 
n IFRIC 8 — Scope of IFRS 2 - effective from 1 October 2006
Use of accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions during the preparation of the financial statements. Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The estimates and assumptions that
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below:
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 47
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 47 1. Accounting policies (continued)
a) Property, Plant and Equipment
Properties are valued annually at open market value in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual
published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (‘RICS’). The valuation is based on market observations
and estimates the amount that would be paid by a willing buyer to a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction
after proper marketing. Non-current assets held for sale are valued at their market value less any costs that may
be incurred to sell the pub. Further information about the valuation of the pub estate is provided in note 17 of
these accounts. 
The Group estimates the useful economic life and residual value of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and these
estimates influence the depreciation charged each year. For details of these estimates, see the detailed
accounting policy for PPE. 
b) Testing goodwill for impairment
The Group annually tests whether goodwill has been impaired. The recoverable amount of the cash generating
unit that the goodwill has been allocated to is determined based on value-in-use calculations which require
estimating future cash flows and applying a suitable discount rate. Details of the tests and carrying value of the
asset are shown in note 14. 
c) Valuation of interest rate swaps
The Group measures interest rate swaps at fair value at each balance sheet date. The swap valuation rates are
derived from the mid point of the zero coupon prevailing at the close of business on the balance sheet date. The
fair value represents the net present value of the difference between the projected cash flows at the swap
contract rate and the valuation rate for the period from the balance sheet date to the contracted expiry date. The
calculation therefore uses estimates of present values and future interest rates.
d) Taxation 
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot
be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities. Tax benefits are not
recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained. Tax provisions are made if it is possible that a
liability will arise. The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting
treatment.
e) Other
The Group also makes estimations and judgements in the valuation of share-based payments and the pension
liability. However, the value of these items is such that any variation in the estimates used is unlikely to have
a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
2. Revenue
The Group operates in one segment, that of leased and tenanted pub operator in the UK.
Revenue is derived as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Beer and cider sales 635 617
Wines, spirits and minerals sales 36 36
Rents receivable 270 269
Income from amusement and other machines 29 30
970 952
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
48 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 48 3. Cost of sales
2006 2005
£m £m
Beer and cider cost of sales 349 343
Wines, spirits and minerals cost of sales 28 29
Leasehold charges 4 6
Repairs and maintenance 6 7
387 385
4. EBITDA — impact of disposal of pubs to Admiral Taverns
On 6 September 2006, the Group disposed of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns. The pubs disposed of to Admiral
generated £28 million of EBITDA in the year ended 30 September 2006 (2005 — £31 million). An analysis of the
impact of the disposal of pubs to Admiral Taverns on current and prior year EBITDA together with an analysis of
the application of the sales proceeds is set out below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenue
Beer and cider sales 33 36
Wines, spirits and minerals sales 2 2
Rents receivable 11 13
Income from amusement and other machines 3 3
49 54
Cost of sales
Beer and cider cost of sales (17) (19)
Wines, spirits and minerals cost of sales (2) (2)
Leasehold charges (1) (1)
Repairs and maintenance (1) (1)
(21) (23)
Administrative expenses — —
EBITDA 28 31
The disposal was made for cash consideration of £316 million which has been used to repay debt (including the
cancellation of equivalent swaps) with the balance to be used for general corporate purposes including future
acquisitions of pubs. In addition, the Group received £2 million of preference shares.
£m
Consideration
Cash 316
Preference shares 2
318
Use of funds
Repayment of floating rate debt (note 22) 262
Restructuring of interest rate swaps (note 22) 30
Preference share holding (note 15) 2
Cash held for general corporate purposes 24
318
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 49
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 49 4. EBITDA — impact of disposal of pubs to Admiral Taverns (continued)
The assets disposed of had a total book value of £266 million and generated a total profit on disposal of £51
million. No tax is expected to be payable on this profit due to the application of capital gains roll over relief. 
Fixtures and Property, Plant
fittings and Equipment Total
£m £m £m
Consideration 2 316 318
Selling costs — (1) (1)
Net consideration 2 315 317
Book value (2) (264) (266)
Profit on disposal — 51 51
5. Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging:
2006 2005
£m £m
Depreciation
Relating to cost of sales 6 8
Relating to administrative expenses 1 1
7 9
Amortisation:
Relating to cost of sales 1 1
Depreciation and amortisation 8 10
6. Auditors' Remuneration
This note is shown rounded to the nearest thousand.
2006 2005
£000 £000
Audit of the financial statements 282 237
Audit-related services 119 109
Other fees to auditors:
Taxation services 189 163
Accounting advice in relation to share-based payment schemes 28 63
Company secretarial services* 8 46
Other services — 4
626 622
Audit-related services in 2005 and 2006 primarily relate to fees charged in respect of the transition to IFRS.
* On 29 June 2006, Ernst & Young LLP sold their company secretarial business. As a result, at 30 September
2006, the Group no longer pays any remuneration to the auditor for these services. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
50 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 50 7. Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
2006 2005
£m £m
Profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment 97 20
Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment (30) (6)
67 14
There is no current tax expense associated with the profit on sale of property. A deferred tax charge of £19 million
(2005 — £3 million) arises as a result of the disposal of these properties.
8. Movements on revaluation of pub estate
2006 2005
£m £m
Movements on revaluation of pub estate 1 3
Write-down of non-current assets held for sale to fair value less costs to sell (3) (7)
(2) (4)
There is no current tax expense associated with these movements. A deferred tax credit of £1m (2005 — £1
million) arises as a result of the revaluation and write down of these properties.
9. Staff costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 24 26
Social security costs 3 3
Other pension costs 2 2
29 31
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense relating to share-based payments of £3 million (2005 — £3
million). All of this expense arises from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments (see
note 28). 
Other pension costs represents payments made into employees’ individual defined contribution plans. 
The average monthly number of employees comprised:
2006 2005
No. No.
Operations staff 244 230
Administration staff 283 309
527 539
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 51
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 51 9. Staff costs (continued)
Directors’ emoluments are summarised below to the nearest £000 with full detail given in the Directors'
Remuneration Report.
2006 2005
£000 £000
Directors emoluments* 2,478 2,255
Share-based payments† 2,078 1,509
Aggregate gains made on exercise of share options 5,499 3,602
* comprises fees, salary, benefits and performance-related cash bonus.
† fair value of share-based payments charged to the Income Statement during the year.
10. Finance costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 37 40
Debentures/secured bonds/securitised bonds 191 193
Other interest payable and finance costs 2 4
Interest payable 230 237
Exceptional finance costs:
Write-off of unamortised issue costs 3 5
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (note 22) (40) 20
Total finance costs 193 262
The write-off of unamortised issue costs in 2005 and 2006 resulted from refinancing exercises. This write-off was
classified as exceptional as it is not expected to occur every year and is not part of the cash outflow of servicing
the Group's debt. The movement in fair value of interest rate swaps arises as a result of the revaluation of the
swaps at the balance sheet date (see note 1). The total interest charge under the effective interest rate method
(which excludes swap fair value movements) is £233 million (2005 — £242 million).
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
52 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 52 11. Taxation
a) Total tax expense recognised in the Group Income Statement
2006 2005
Pre- Pre-
exceptionalExceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax
UK corporation tax 82 (1) 81 74 (1) 73
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3) — (3) (3) — (3)
Total current tax 79 (1) 78 71 (1) 70
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal 
of temporary differences (note 11c) 16 (4) 12 19 (23) (4)
Taxation (note 11b) 95 (5) 90 90 (24) 66
b) Tax charge reconciliation
2006 2005
Pre- Pre-
exceptionalExceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax 315 100 415 290 (15) 275
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 
at 30% (2005 — 30%) 94 30 124 87 (5) 82
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 4— 4 3— 3
Indexation on property disposals — (14) (14) — ——
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to indexation — (21) (21) — (19) (19)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3) — (3) —— —
Total tax charge in the Income Statement 95 (5) 90 90 (24) 66
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 53
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 53 11. Taxation (continued)
c) Deferred tax recognised in the Group Income Statement
2006 2005
Pre- Pre-
exceptionalExceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 8— 8 13 13
Deferred tax on movement 
in fair value of interest rate swaps 9 12 21 (6) (6)
Utilisation of tax losses 3— 3 6— 6
Temporary differences (4) — (4) —— —
Deferred tax on profit on sale of property — 18 18 —2 2
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to indexation — (34) (34) — (19) (19)
16 (4) 12 19 (23) (4)
d) Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
2006 2005
£m £m
Increase in deferred tax liability related to
revaluation of property and rolled over gains 91 74
Deferred tax relating to share schemes credited to equity (5) (7)
Tax charge in the statement of recognised income and expense 86 67
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
54 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 54 12. Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on earnings of £325 million (2005 — £209 million) and on
322.1million (2005 — 342.4 million) shares being the weighted average number of equity shares in issue during
the year after excluding shares held by trusts relating to employee share options and shares held in treasury.
Adjusted earnings per share, which the directors believe reflects the underlying performance of the Group, is
based on earnings adjusted for the effects of exceptional items, net of tax, of £220 million (2005 — £200 million)
and on 322.1 million (2005 — 342.4 million) shares being the weighted average number of equity shares in issue
during the year after excluding shares held by trusts relating to employee share options and shares held in
treasury.
Basic earnings are adjusted as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit after tax 325 209
Exceptional finance costs:
Write off of unamortised issue costs 3 5
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (40) 20
Other exceptional items:
Net profit on disposal of property (67) (14)
Movements from revaluation of pub estate 2 4
Reorganisation costs 2
Tax impact of exceptional items listed above 29 (5)
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to indexation (34) (19)
Adjusted earnings 220 200
Diluted earnings per share is based on profit for the year of £325 million (2005 — £209 million) and adjusted profit
of £220m (2005 — £200 million) and on 324.7 million (2005 — 346.6 million) ordinary shares calculated as
follows:
2006 2005
No. No.
Basic weighted average number of shares 322.1 342.4
Executive share option scheme 0.9 1.6
Enterprise Inns Quest share save scheme 0.4 0.5
Long-term and short-term incentive plans 1.3 2.1
Diluted weighted average number of shares 324.7 346.6
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 55
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 55 13. Dividends paid and proposed
2006 2005
£m £m
Paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend relating to prior year 12.4 pence (2005 — 8.4 pence) 42 29
Interim dividend for current year 9.0p (2005 — 5.6 pence) 28 19
70 48
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM
Final dividend for current year 18.0 pence (2005 — 12.4 pence) 54 42
Proposed dividends are not accounted for until they are approved at the AGM.
The dividends relating to shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and shares held in treasury have been waived.
No dividend is due on shares held in treasury.
14. Goodwill
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 October and 30 September 417 417
Impairment testing
Goodwill acquired via business combinations is tested annually for impairment. For this purpose, the goodwill 
is allocated to the pub estate. This represents the lowest level within the Group that goodwill is monitored for
internal management purposes. The impairment test compares the recoverable amount of the cash-generating
unit with its carrying amount. The recoverable amount is determined using a value in use calculation. 
This calculation discounts estimated future cash flows using a discount rate equivalent to the Group's weighted
average pre-tax cost of capital of 7.43% (2005 — 7.35%). Future cash flows are estimated using management
forecasts of cash flow over a five year period. Each element of the cash flows beyond this forecast period is
extrapolated using a growth rate of 3% (2005 — 3%). The impairment test did not result in any impairment of
goodwill.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
56 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 56 15. Investments
2006 2005
£m £m
Cost and net book value:
At 1 October 2005 — —
Additions 2 —
At 30 September 2006 2 —
On 6 September 2006, the Group disposed of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns. Part of the consideration received for
this disposal was £2 million of preference shares in Admiral Taverns. See note 4.
16. Intangible assets: operating lease premiums
2006 2005
£m £m
Cost:
At 1 October 29 29
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (2) —
At 30 September 27 29
Amortisation:
At 1 October 2 —
Provided during the year 1 2
At 30 September 3 2
Net book value:
At 30 September 24 27
At 1 October 27 29
Lease premiums are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining life of the lease. The amortisation is
charged to the Income Statement in the line item ‘depreciation and amortisation'. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 57
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 57 17. Property, plant and equipment
Licensed Landlords’
land and fixtures and Other
buildings fittings assets Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2004 4,782 85 24 4,891
Additions 47 18 1 66
Revaluation 267 — — 267
Write down to fair value less costs to sell (11) — — (11)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (34) — — (34)
Disposals — — (1) (1)
At 1 October 2005 5,051 103 24 5,178
Additions 102 33 8 143
Revaluation 323 — — 323
Write down to fair value less costs to sell (3) — — (3)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (263) (12) — (275)
Disposals (6) — (2) (8)
At 30 September 2006 5,204 124 30 5,358
Depreciation
At 1 October 2004 11 4 3 18
Charge for the year 6 2 1 9
Revaluation (6) — — (6)
At 1 October 2005 11 6 4 21
Charge for the year 3 2 2 7
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (4) (1) — (5)
Disposals (5) — (2) (7)
Revaluation (1) — — (1)
At 30 September 2006 474 15
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 5,200 117 26 5,343
At 30 September 2005 5,040 97 20 5,157
At 1 October 2004 4,771 81 21 4,873
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment
With the exception of properties identified for disposal, the Group's licensed land and buildings were revalued as
at 30 September 2006 by Humberts Leisure Limited and Christie & Co., independent Chartered Surveyors, and by
the internal Head of Estates, Simon Millar MRICS, Chartered Surveyor. 
The land and buildings were valued at market value (as defined within RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards
‘Red Book’), reflecting the current and future rent and other income streams which are expected to be generated
by each property capitalised at an appropriate yield. The valuation also takes account of the terms of the leases
or tenancies under which the properties are let. Market value is influenced by factors such as income, location,
pub quality and tenure. The valuations are made by reference to market transactions within the UK pub sector.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
58 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 58 17. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
The pubs used as security for the secured bonds and debenture in Enterprise Inns plc have been valued by
Humberts Leisure Limited. The balance of the estate held in Enterprise Inns plc and Voyager Pub Group Limited
has been valued by the Head of Estates. The results of this internal valuation have been compared to that of the
external valuers. This review ensured that the results are consistent.
A representative sample of the pubs held by Unique Pub Properties Limited (‘Unique’) has been valued by Christie
& Co. The method of this valuation have been applied across the rest of the Unique estate on a pub by pub basis
in line with the requirements of the securitisation. The results of both the Unique and Enterprise valuations are
also compared, ensuring consistency. 
Pubs identified for disposal which are classified in the balance sheet as ‘non-current assets held for sale’ are held
at fair value less costs to sell. This value is based on the net estimated realisable disposal proceeds (ERV) which
are provided by third party property agents who have been engaged to sell the properties.
If licensed land and buildings had been measured using the cost model, the carrying amounts would be as follows:
Licensed land 
and buildings 
£m
At 30 September 2006
Cost 4,093
Accumulated depreciation (36)
Net book value 4,057
At 30 September 2005
Cost 4,212
Accumulated depreciation (45)
Net book value 4,167
The carrying value of property held under finance leases at 30 September 2006 was £236 million (2005 — £265
million). Additions during the year include £3m of property held under finance leases (2005 — £5 million).
At 30 September 2006, the Group had entered into contractual commitments to purchase £9 million (2005 —
£9million) of property, plant and equipment. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 59
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 59 18. Current assets held for sale
2006 2005
Fixtures and fittings and stock purchased from tenants £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 11 10
Additions 12 9
Disposals (13) (8)
At 30 September 10 11
Provision
At 1 October 4 5
Charge for the year 2 —
Utilised during the year (2) (1)
At 30 September 4 4
Net realisable value 6 7
19. Trade and other receivables
Reanalysed
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 76 61
Prepayments and accrued income 16 20
Other receivables 2 —
94 81
2005 has been re-analysed to show receivables that related to commission income in trade receivables instead of
accrued income as these amounts are now invoiced.
20. Non-current assets held for sale
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 October 36 33
Net transfer from property, plant and equipment (note 17) 270 34
Net transfer from intangible assets: lease premiums (note 16) 2 —
Disposals (298) (31)
At 30 September 10 36
Representing:
Property, plant and equipment 10 35
Intangible assets: lease premiums — 1
10 36
Non-current assets held for sale comprises both freehold and leasehold licensed and unlicensed properties that
have been identified by the Group for disposal as part of the continued improvement in quality of its property
portfolio. Non-current assets held for sale may be sold as trading pubs or for alternative use. The sale of all assets
within this category is expected to be completed within one year of the balance sheet date. 
A balance of £1 million (2005 — £2 million) in relation to these pubs is held within the revaluation reserve
representing revaluation surpluses.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
60 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 60 21. Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 17 10
Accruals and deferred income 150 162
Other payables 43 45
210 217
22. Financial assets and liabilities
2006 2005
Financial assets £m £m
Current
Interest rate swap 1 -
Non-current
Interest rate swap 1 -
Total financial assets 2
2006 2005
Financial liabilities £m £m
Current
Securitised bonds 13 13
Interest rate swaps 41 109
54 122
Non-current
Syndicated bank borrowings 421 256
Corporate bonds 1,181 1,181
Securitised bonds 1,709 1,817
Finance lease payables 5 6
3,316 3,260
Total financial liabilities 3,370 3,382
Total financial assets and liabilities 3,368 3,382
Fair values
Bank borrowings, the debenture, bonds and interest rate swaps were valued at fair value as at 30 September by J C
Rathbone, independent valuers. Fair value is calculated by discounting future cash flows using prevailing interest
rates. The finance lease payables are valued by calculating the present value of the future minimum lease
payments.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 61
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 61 22. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
The book and fair values of financial assets and liabilities analysed into categories of syndicated bank borrowings, corporate bonds,
securitised bonds and interest rates swaps are as follows.
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
Nominal Nominal
value Book value Fair value value Book value Fair  value
Interest rate £m £m £m £m £m £m
Syndicated bank borrowings LIBOR + 0.6% 425 421 425 260 256 260
Corporate bonds:
Debenture — issued 3 February 1999 6% 60 59 61 60 59 58
Secured bond — issued 9 May 2000 6.875% 125 124 144 125 124 141
Secured bond — issued 15 February 2001 6.875% 125 124 140 125 124 139
Secured bond — issued 26 February 2002 6.375% 275 272 310 275 272 298
Secured bond — issued 3 March 2003 6.5% 600 602 647 600 602 650
1,185 1,181 1,302 1,185 1,181 1,286
Securitised bonds:
A1N — issued 25 February 2005 LIBOR + 0.38% 34 34 34 125 125 125
A2N — issued 25 February 2005 LIBOR + 0.16% 248 248 249 262 261 262
A3 — issued 30 March 1999 6.542% 435 458 485 435 460 493
A4 — issued 20 September 2002 5.659% 535 537 566 535 536 566
M — issued 30 March 1999 7.395% 225 248 267 225 250 267
N — issued 20 September 2002 6.464% 190 197 213 190 198 209
1,667 1,722 1,814 1,772 1,830 1,922
Interest rate swaps:
£275m swap expiring 1 June 2012 6.662% — 22 22 —— —
£350m swap expiring 30 September 2011 4.887% — (2) (2) —— —
£550m swap expiring 1 June 2012 6.662% — —— — 67 67
£91m swap expiring 30 December 2012 7.934% —— — —9 9
£72m swap expiring 30 December 2012 7.873% —5 5 — 10 10
£87m swap expiring 30 December 2012 7.873% — 66 — 10 10
£122m swap expiring 30 September 2013 6.079% —8 8 — 13 13
— 39 39 — 109 109
3,277 3,363 3,580 3,217 3,376 3,577
Finance lease payables (note 23) — 55 — 66
Total debt 3,277 3,368 3,585 3,217 3,382 3,583
Cash (111) (111) (96) (96)
Underlying net debt/net debt (note 30) 3,166 3,257 3,121 3,286
Syndicated bank borrowings, corporate bonds and securitised bonds are held at amortised cost. Interest rate swaps are held at fair value
and finance lease payables represents the present value of future minimum lease payments. Other categories of financial instruments
include trade receivables and trade payables, however there is no difference between the book value and fair value of these items.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
62 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 62 22. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Use of disposal proceeds
During the year the Group disposed of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns for a total consideration of 318m. Of the
consideration received by the Group £2m was in the form of preference shares which accrue interest at a rate of
8%. The £316m consideration received in the form of cash has been utilised by the Group as follows:
£m
Prepayment of A1N secured bonds (80)
Repayment of A2N secured bonds (3)
Repayment of syndicated bank borrowings (179)
Cancellation and restructuring costs associated with interest rate swaps (30)
General corporate purposes (including acquisitions and share buybacks) (24)
(316)
Interest rate swaps
As part of the repayment of debt following the receipt of consideration from Admiral Taverns, a proportion of the
Group swaps were cancelled or restructured. In Unique Pub Properties Limited, a subsidiary company, swaps were
cancelled and restructured to ensure that the floating rate notes remain effectively hedged through to maturity.
In Enterprise Inns plc a £275m swap expiring in June 2012 was restructured into a £350m swap expiring in
September 2011 in order to take advantage of current market rates. The cash impact of restructuring the hedging
instruments was as follows:
£m
Cancellation of £91m swap expiring 30 December 2012 (5)
Restructuring of £72m swap expiring 30 December 2012 —
Restructuring of £275m swap expiring 1 June 2012 into £350m swap expiring 30 September 2011 (25)
(30)
The £25m paid in order to restructure the £275m June 2012 swap into a £350m September 2011 swap effectively
put the swap £2m into the money.
Following the restructuring of the swap the fair value balance is categorised as a financial asset. The swaps were
restructured on 29 September 2006 and from this date the Group has chosen to designate the restructured
£350m swap that expires in September 2011 as an effective hedge under IAS 39 as it meets the criteria set out in
that standard. This cash flow hedge is hedging future movements in interest rates until September 2011. As a
result, future changes in the fair value of the effective portion of this swap will be recognised directly in equity
instead of in the Income Statement. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of the hedge will
continue to be recognised in the Income Statement.
The change in fair value of interest rate swaps from £109m to £39m during the year ending 30 September 2006
is made up of cash payments of £30m as shown above and changes in fair value of £40m which have been
recognised in the Income Statement. The £40m movement in fair value has been recognised in the Income
Statement in its entirety as the movement all relates to swaps that were not designated as hedges under IAS 39.
Financial instruments and risk
The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans, a debenture, secured bonds,
securitised bonds and cash. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s
operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions, specifically interest rate swaps. The purpose of such
transactions is to manage the interest rate risk arising from the Group’s sources of finance.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 63
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 63 22. Financial liabilities (continued)
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk and liquidity risk. There is no
currency exposure as all transactions are in Sterling. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of
these risks and they are summarised as follows.
Liquidity risk
The Group has exposure to liquidity risk, being the risk that payments cannot be made when they fall due. The
Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of
overdrafts, bank loans, debentures and securitised debt.
This objective is achieved through the following processes:
n Regular cash flow forecasting and reporting through the treasury function
n Regular review of the Group’s debt portfolio including maturities and repayment profile
n Maintenance of undrawn committed borrowings
n Management of share buy-back programme
At 30 September 2006, the nominal value of the Group’s borrowings (excluding swaps and finance lease payables)
comprised: 
2006 2005
£m £m
Syndicated bank borrowings 13% 8%
Corporate bonds 36% 37%
Securitised bonds 51% 55%
The maturity of the Group’s debt, including interest rate swap liabilities, is set out below:
2006 2005
£m £m
In more than five years 2,751 2,845
In more than two years but not more than five years 578 435
In more than one year but not more than two years 21 99
In one year or less or on demand 22 40
3,372 3,419
The table above shows the contractual, undiscounted cash flows due in future periods to settle the group’s debt.
The total amount payable shown above differs from the total book value of group debt of £3,363m as the book
value of group debt includes the fair value of the interest rates swaps which is based on discounted cash flows. 
The contractual maturity of trade and other payables is within one year. An analysis of minimum lease payments
due under finance leases is set out in note 23.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
64 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 64 22. Financial liabilities (continued)
Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 September are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Expiring in
In more than five years 190 190
In more than two years but not more than five years 575 230
In more than one year but not more than two years — —
In one year or less or on demand — —
765 420
The undrawn facilities relate to: 
2006 2005
£m £m
Renewable committed liquidity facility in respect of the Unique securitisation 190 190
Undrawn element of the syndicated bank facility 575 230
Interest rate risk
The Group borrows its debenture and bonds except for the A1N and A2N bonds at a fixed rate. Bank debt and the
A1N and A2N bonds are borrowed at, and cash balances attract interest at, a floating rate. The Group’s objective is
to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. This exposure is managed using interest rate swaps acquired with
Group companies. At 30 September 2006, the Group’s borrowings were 100% fixed (after including the impact of
interest rate swaps) at an average rate of 6.6% for 13 years ( 2005 — 100% fixed at an average rate of 6.9% for 14
years). Cash flows associated with cash deposits, debt and interest rate swaps and the fair value of these
instruments fluctuates with changes in interest rates.
The effect on the profit for the year would have been as follows if interest rates had been 50 basis points higher or
lower during the period. 
Movement in 
Interest Interest fair value of 
receivable Payable interest rate swap
£m £m £m
As reported in Income Statement 6 (230) 40
Effect if interest rates increased by 50 basis points 7 (230) 60
Difference 1 — 20
As reported in Income Statement 6 (230) 40
Effect if interest rates decreased by 50 basis points 5 (230) 20
Difference (1) - (20)
A change in interest rates would result in no difference in respect of interest payable when taking interest payable
on floating rate debt in aggregate with the interest due on interest rate swaps. This is because, if interest rates
increased by 50 basis points, additional interest payable in relation to floating rate debt of £4m would be offset by
a reduction in interest payable of £4m under the interest rate swaps. If interest rates decreased by 50 basis points,
the same principle would apply whereby £4m less interest would be payable in relation to the floating rate debt
and £4m more in relation to the swaps.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 65
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 65 22. Financial liabilities (continued)
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The Group is exposed to a small amount of
credit risk that is primarily attributable to trade receivables and cash balances. The Group’s objective is to minimise
this risk by dealing with third parties with high credit ratings and carrying out credit checks where appropriate. The
amount of trade and other receivables included in the Balance Sheet are net of a bad debt provision which has
been estimated by management following a review of individual receivable accounts and is based on prior
experience and known factors at the balance sheet date after taking into account collateral held in the form of
cash deposits. Receivables are written off against the bad debt provision when management considers that the
debt is no longer recoverable. At 30 September 2006 the value of collateral is £27 million (2005 — £26 million).
This balance is held on the balance sheet in ‘other payables’. 
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables is set out below. This provision relates to trade
receivables which are primarily represented by licensees. 
2006 2005
£m £m
Allowance as at 1 October 5 6
Increase in provision during the year 3 4
Provision utilised during the year (1) (1)
Provision released during the year (3) (4)
Allowance as at 30 September 4 5
There are no trade receivables that are past due at the balance sheet date that have not been provided against.
There are no indications as at 30 September 2006 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect
of the amount of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are neither past due nor impaired. The
maximum amount of exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of trade receivables and the fair value of interest
rate swaps classified as financial assets. The Group’s credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the Group only
invests with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings.
Security
Senior debt finance is secured by a security deed entered into by substantially all of the companies which comprise
the Group, excluding Enterprise Inns Holding Company Limited and its subsidiaries. The lenders have a floating
charge over all of the assets and undertakings of such Group companies. The floating charge ranks subsequent to
the fixed charges created by the debenture and secured bonds. The value of assets secured by way of a fixed or
floating charge as at 30 September 2005 is — Property, Plant and Equipment £5,317 million (2005 — £5,137
million), operating lease premiums £24 million (£27 million) and pubs held for sale £10 million (£36 million).
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
66 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 66 23. Leases
The Group as lessee
The Group leases a proportion of its licensed estate from landlords under finance leases and operating leases.
These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.  
Finance leases
2006 2005
£m £m
Future minimum lease payments due under finance leases:
within one year — 1
after one year but not more than five years 2 2
In more than five years 27 33
29 36
Future finance lease interest (24) (30)
Present value of future minimum lease payments 5 6
The present value of future minimum lease payments is due in more than five years (2005 — more than five years). 
Pubs that are leased from landlords under finance leases are let to tenants. Future minimum rentals receivable
from non-cancellable sub-leases on the above properties are £149 million (2005 — £170 million).
Operating leases
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating lease rentals recognised as an expense in the year 4 6
2006 2005
£m £m
Future minimum lease payments due under operating leases:
within one year 3 4
after one year but not more than five years 12 16
In more than five years 64 87
79 107
Pubs that are leased from landlords under operating leases are let to tenants. Future minimum rentals receivable
from non-cancellable sub-leases on the above properties are £37 million (2005 — £49 million).
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 67
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 67 23. Leases (continued)
The Group as lessor
The Group leases its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants. The majority of lease agreements
have terms of between 6 months and 30 years and are classified for accounting purposes as operating leases. Most
of the leases with terms of over 3 years include provision for rent reviews on either a 3 or 5 year basis.
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under operating leases:
within one year 254 264
after one year but not more than five years 939 975
In more than five years 2,173 2,327
3,366 3,566
24. Provisions
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 October 2005:
Current 1 1
Non-current 7 5
8 6
Movement during the year:
Release of provision during the year (1) (1)
Utilisation (2) (1)
Reclassification — 3
(3) 1
At 30 September 2006:
Current 1 1
Non-current 4 7
5 8
The provision relates to future commitments under onerous lease agreements. The provision is expected to be
utilised as the pubs are disposed of. The remaining lease terms vary from 5 to 65 years.
25. Deferred tax
The deferred tax in the Group Balance Sheet relates to the following:
2006 2005
£m £m
Revaluation of property and rolled over gains 609 535
Accelerated capital allowances 98 90
Fair value of interest rate swaps (12) (33)
Share-based payments (8) (8)
Tax losses — (3)
Other temporary differences 5 9
692 590
The Group has not provided deferred tax in relation to temporary differences associated with undistributed
earnings of subsidiaries on the basis that under current enacted law, no tax is payable on dividends payable and
receivable within the Group. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
68 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 68 26. Pension liability
The Group makes defined contribution payments to employees' own pension plans and these payments are
charged to the Income Statement as incurred. 
RetailLink Management Limited (a subsidiary company) established a pension plan for its employees in January
1999. The plan has defined contribution and defined benefit schemes. The plan is now closed to new members and
for the future accrual of benefits. The most recent full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit section of the plan
was at 5 April 2005. This has been updated to 30 September 2006. The valuation was carried out by Mercer,
independent professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. 
Assets and liabilities of the plan
2006 2005
£m £m
Fair value of plan assets:
Equities 13 12
Bonds 6 5
19 17
Present value of plan liabilities (19) (17)
Net pension liability — —
The present value of plan obligations relates to funded plans.
Movement in deficit during the year
2006 2005
£m £m
Net liability at the start of the year — (3)
Employer contributions — 2
Actuarial (loss)/gain — 1
Net liability at the end of the year — —
Analysis of amounts recognised in the Income Statement
2006 2005
£m £m
Interest cost on plan liabilities (1) (1)
Expected return on plan assets 1 1
— —
The amounts above are recognised within interest payable.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 69
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 69 26. Pension liability (continued)
Analysis of amounts recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
2006 2005
£m £m
Actual return on plan assets 2 2
Less expected return on plan assets (1) (1)
1 1
Other actuarial gains and losses (1) —
— 1
Changes in the fair value of plan assets
2006 2005
£m £m
Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 17 13
Expected return on plan assets 1 1
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets 1 1
Employer contributions — 2
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 19 17
Changes in the present value of scheme liabilities
2006 2005
£m £m
Present value of plan liabilities at the start of the year (17) (16)
Interest cost (1) (1)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan liabilities (1) —
Present value of plan liabilities at the end of the year (19) (17)
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
2006 2005
% %
Rate of increase in pension payments 3.50 3.30
Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 3.00 2.80
Discount rate 5.00 5.00
Inflation assumption 3.00 2.80
Expected return on plan assets:
Equities 7.00 6.00
Bonds 3.90 4.20
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
Men 22 years 22 years
Women 25 years 25 years
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners
Men 24 years 24 years
Women 27 years 27 years
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
70 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 70 26. Pension liability (continued)
The expected rates of return on individual categories of plan assets are determined by reference to the relevant
indices published by FTSE. 
The expected rates of return shown for 30 September 2006 are after a deduction for plan expenses of 0.75% p.a..
The corresponding figures for 30 September 2005 showed a deduction for expenses of 1.0% p.a. for equities and
0.5% p.a. for bonds.
The mortality tables used to value the plan's liabilities are PMA92(YOB=1935)mc less 1 year age rating for
current pensioners and PMA92(YOB=1965)mc less 1 year age rating for future retirees. These tables give a life
expectancy as set out above.
The history of the plan for the current and prior years is as follows:
2006 2005 2004*
£m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 19 17 13
Present value of plan liabilities (19) (17) (16)
Net liability — — (3)
Experience adjustments on plan assets 1 1—
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (1) —1
* Six month period ending 30 September 2004
Total contributions to the defined benefit scheme during the year to 30 September 2007 is expected to be £nil.
Since the acquisition of the defined benefit scheme on 31 March 2004, the total amount of actuarial gains and
losses recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense is £1m gain (2005 — £1m gain).
27. Share capital 
Authorised: 2006 2005
No. £m No. £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 500,000,000 25 500,000,000 25
Allotted, called up and fully paid: 2006 2005
Ordinary shares of 5p each No. £m No. £m
At 1 October 349,505,390 17 349,505,390 17
Cancelled (17,340,815) (1) ——
At 30 September 332,164,575 16 349,505,390 17
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to vote at meetings.
At 30 September 2006, the Company owned 25 million of its own shares as treasury shares with a nominal value
of £1 million and a market value of £264 million (2005 — nil). Transaction costs of £3 million (2005 — nil) have
been accounted for directly in equity in the profit and loss reserve.
In addition, the Group held 6,870,253 shares with a nominal value of £0.3m and a market value of £72 million
(2005 — 9,248,445 shares, nominal value £0.5 million, market value £78 million). These shares are held by the
Employee Benefit Trust and Enterprise Inns Quest Trustees Limited and are shares used to satisfy awards made
under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans and other share option schemes (note 28). 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 71
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 71 28. Share-based payments
The Group operates share-based payment schemes for both directors and other employees. Details of the Short-
Term Incentive Plan (STIP) and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which form part of the remuneration of the
executive directors are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 37. 
The Group also operates an Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS), a Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE)
and a Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
A total expense of £3 million (2005 — £3 million) has been incurred in the year in relation to share-based
payments. This expense relates wholly to the equity-settled schemes described above.
Share Incentive Plan
The SIP is open to all employees. At times determined by the Company, employees may allocate the lower of
£1,500 and 10% of pre-tax salary to purchase shares out of their salary. The Board may also decide to award
matching shares. The shares are held in trust on behalf of the employee. If shares are removed from trust within
three years, any allocation of matching shares may be lost. Shares can be transferred tax-free to employees after
a period of five years. This scheme is operating for the first time in 2005/06 and matching shares were awarded.
The cost of the matching shares is being spread over the three year vesting period of the scheme. 
Details of the number of matching shares held in trust during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
Outstanding beginning of year — —
Granted 44,914 —
Forfeited/expired (2,579) —
Outstanding at end of year 42,335 —
Employee Share Option Scheme 
The ESOS scheme is open to all employees. Share options are awarded to employees at the discretion of the
Board. The current intention of the Board is to issue options with an exercise price equal to the market value of a
share at grant date. Options will normally vest after 3 years if an employee remains in service and if EPS growth
targets are met. For options granted during the year ended 30 September 2006 options will only vest in full if the
average compound annual percentage growth in adjusted EPS between the grant date and the third anniversary
of the grant date is 8.33%. Options may normally only be exercised during the period of 7 years commencing on
the third anniversary of the date of grant of the option. Options will usually be settled by issuing ordinary shares
held by the Employee Benefit Trust. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
72 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 72 28. Share-based payments (continued)
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted 
Number of average Number of average
share exercise share exercise 
options price £ options price £
Outstanding beginning of year 4,335,827 4.43 4,536,348 3.08
Granted 1,020,750 8.89 1,192,500 7.18
Exercised (1,698,746) 2.83 (1,344,043) 2.33
Forfeited/expired (341,697) 6.08 (48,978) 4.23
Outstanding at end of year* 3,316,134 6.45 4,335,827 4.43
Weighted average remaining contractual life 6.5 years 5.9 years
* Included in this balance are 133,731 options (2005 — 453,327) which have not been accounted for under IFRS
2 as they were granted before 7 November 2002. Such options are not accounted for under IFRS 2 in line with
the transitional provisions of this standard and of IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of IFRS' (note 33). Options will only
vest in full if certain performance criteria are met. 
Options outstanding at 30 September 2006 comprise the following:
Number of Exercise
share price
Exercise date options £
Exercisable:
14/12/02–14/12/09 1,344 1.63
18/12/03–18/12/10 52,828 1.70
11/12/04–11/12/11 79,559 2.58
16/12/05–16/12/12 258,740 2.81
392,471
Not yet exercisable:
08/12/06–08/12/13 940,000 4.90
07/12/07–07/12/14 800,250 7.02
18/05/08–18/05/15 289,500 7.57
06/12/09–06/12/16 893,913 8.89
2,923,663
3,316,134
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year under the ESOS was £1.46 (2005 — £1.31).
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 73
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 73 28. Share-based payments (continued)
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
The SAYE scheme is open to executive directors and employees at the discretion of the Board. Participants
contract to save a fixed amount each month with a savings institution for a period of five or seven years. At the
end of the savings term, participants are given the option to purchase shares at a price set before the savings
began. The option price will be not less than 80% of the market value of a share on the date that participants are
invited to take part in the scheme, or the nominal value of a share if lower. Options will usually be settled using
ordinary shares held by Enterprise Inns Quest Trustees Ltd (an employee benefit trust) and will usually be
exercisable for six months after the fifth or seventh anniversary of the commencement of the savings contract. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted 
Number of average Number of average
share exercise share exercise 
options price £ options price £
Outstanding at beginning of year 915,136 2.70 946,134 2.18
Granted 130,774 7.07 144,016 5.45
Exercised (209,579) 1.27 (102,135) 1.53
Forfeited/expired (58,464) 4.78 (72,879) 3.02
Outstanding at end of year* 777,867 3.66 915,136 2.70
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.8 years 2.9 years
* Included in this balance are 142,146 options (2005 — 351,058) which have not been accounted for under IFRS
2 as they were granted before 7 November 2002. Such options are not accounted for under IFRS 2 in line with
the transitional provisions of this standard and of IFRS 1 'First-time adoption of IFRS'. (note 33).
Options outstanding at 30 September 2006 comprise the following:
Number of
share Exercise
Exercise date options price
Not yet exercisable:
01/02/07–01/08/07 28,700 1.41
01/02/08–01/08/08 5,576 1.25
01/02/07–01/08/09 107,870 2.10
01/02/08–01/08/10 267,745 2.32
01/02/09–01/08/11 137,213 3.73
01/02/10–01/08/12 116,349 5.45
01/02/11–01/08/13 114,414 7.07
777,867
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year under the SAYE scheme was £2.60 (2005 —
£2.12).
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
74 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 74 28. Share-based payments (continued)
STIP and LTIP
Executive directors and other members of the executive team are eligible to participate in the STIP and LTIP plans.
A summary of the rules of these schemes along with details of shares that have been granted and are outstanding
in relation to individual directors is included in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 37. 
Details of the total number of shares outstanding during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
LTIP STIP LTIP STIP
Number of Number of Number of Number of
share share share share
options options options options
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,665,436 135,133 1,624,478 163,508
Granted† 347,979 48,335 410,578 52,283
Exercised (453,383) (44,368) (369,620) (80,658)
Forfeited (111,475) (725) ——
Outstanding at end of year* 1,448,557 138,375 1,665,436 135,133
Weighted average remaining contractual life 4.9 years 3.0 years 6.8 years 5.7 years
Directors pay £1 to exercise awards granted under the STIP and LTIP. This is a one-off charge. All of the shares
outstanding at 30 September 2006 are not yet exercisable.
† The share price at which the number of shares granted under the STIP scheme is calculated will not be
confirmed until after the date of the approval of the accounts. The number of STIP shares granted during the year
is therefore estimated using the closing share price on 30 September 2006.
* Included in this balance are 40,941 LTIP shares (2005 — 494,324) which have not been accounted for under IFRS
2 as they were granted before 7 November 2002. Such shares are not accounted for under IFRS 2 in line with the
transitional provisions of this standard and of IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of IFRS' (note 33). Awards will only vest
in full if certain performance criteria are met.
The weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year under the STIP was £9.51 (2005 — £8.07) and
under the LTIP was £5.90 (2005 — £5.03)
The weighted average share price on exercise of shares and share options during the year was £9.56.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 75
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 75 28. Share-based payments (continued)
Fair value of share schemes
The fair value of equity-settled share options and share awards granted is estimated at the date of grant using
share option valuation models. The ESOS, SAYE and STIP schemes are valued using the Black-Scholes model. The
element of the LTIP scheme that relates to non-market conditions is valued using the Black Scholes model. The
element of the LTIP that includes market conditions is valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation Model. 
The following tables list the inputs to the models for options and shares granted during the year:
ESOS SAYE
Weighted average: 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share price (£) 8.89 7.18 8.84 6.81
Exercise price (£) 8.89 7.18 7.07 5.45
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.2% 2.4% 2.2%
Expected volatility 21% 23% 21% 22%
Risk-free interest rate 4.22% 4.33% 4.18% 4.46%
Expected life of option (years) 3.3 3.3 5 or 7 5 or 7
STIP LTIP
Weighted average: 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share price (£) 10.55 8.81 8.81 6.84
Exercise price (£) — — — —
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.2% 2.4% 2.2%
Expected volatility 22% 22% 21% 22%
Risk-free interest rate 4.31% 4.48% 4.2% 4.42%
Expected life of option (years) 4 4 3–5* 3–5*
Expected share-price volatility is based on historic volatility over the same period of time as the vesting period of
the option. The expected life of an option is based on historical data.
The LTIP will only vest in full if a TSR target is met. This is a market condition and the TSR performance criteria
has therefore been taken into account when calculating the fair value of the options granted under the LTIP.
These conditions have been incorporated into the Monte Carlo Simulation model which is used to fair value the
TSR element of the scheme. 
* The LTIP vests in three equal tranches after 3, 4 and 5 years.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
76 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 76 29. Statement of changes in equity
Share Capital Treasury Profit 
Share premiumRevaluationredemption Merger share Other and loss 
Capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2004 17 486 472 8 77 — (28) 208 1,240
Total recognised income 
and expense for the year — — 199 — — — — 213 412
Transfer of realised 
revaluation surplus — — (4) — — — — 4 —
Equity dividends paid (note 13) — — — — — — — (48) (48)
Purchase of shares to be held in trust — — — — — — (37) — (37)
Employee share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — — — — — — 6 (3) 3
Directors' share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — — — — — — 3 (3) —
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit — — — — — — — 3 3
At 1 October 2005 17 486 667 8 77 — (56) 374 1,573
Total recognised income 
and expense for the year — — 232 — — — — 330 562
Transfer of realised revaluation surplus — — (54) — — — — 54 —
Equity dividends paid (note 13) — — — — — — — (70) (70)
Consideration paid 
for purchase of own shares — — — — — (227) — (3) (230)
Cancellation of ordinary shares (1) — — 1 — — — (166) (166)
Purchase of shares to be held in trust — — — — — — — — —
Employee share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — — — — — — 11 (7) 4
Directors' share option entitlements 
exercised in the year —— —— —— 3 (3) —
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit — — — — — — — 3 3
At 30 September 2006 16 486 845 9 77 (227) (42) 512 1,676
Share premium account
This reserve represents the amount of proceeds received for shares in excess of their nominal value of 5 pence per share.
Revaluation reserve
This reserve shows the surplus generated on revaluation of the estate. It represents the amount by which the fair value of the estate
exceeds its historic cost.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve arose on the repurchase and cancellation of own shares in 1995/96 and 2005/06.
Merger reserve
This reserve arose as a consequence of the acquisition of Century Inns plc in 1998/99.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 77
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 77 29. Statement of changes in equity (continued)
Treasury share reserve
This reserve shows the cost of own shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. These shares
can be cancelled or reissued.
Other reserve
This comprises the cost of shares in the Company that are held by employee benefit trusts. These shares are used
to satisfy awards made under share incentive plans (note 28). 
30. Additional cash flow information
a) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2006 2005
£m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 15 (51)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from change in debt (30) 200
Issue costs of new long term loans 4 2
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (11) 151
Amortisation of issue costs and discounts/premiums on long-term loans (7) (4)
Amortisation of securitised bonds 10 5
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps 40 (20)
Write-off of unamortised issue costs (3) (5)
Movement in net debt in the year 29 127
Net debt at start of year (3,286) (3,413)
Net debt at end of year (3,257) (3,286)
b) Analysis of net debt 2006 2005
£m £m
Corporate bonds (1,185) (1,185)
Syndicated bank borrowings (425) (260)
Securitised bonds (1,667) (1,772)
Gross debt (3,277) (3,217)
Cash 111 96
Underlying net debt (note 22) (3,166) (3,121)
Capitalised debt issue costs 20 27
Fair value adjustments on acquisition of bonds (67) (77)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (39) (109)
Finance lease payables (5) (6)
Net debt (note 22) (3,257) (3,286)
Balance sheet:
Current financial assets 1 —
Non-current financial assets 1 —
Current financial liabilities (54) (122)
Non-current financial liabilities (3,316) (3,260)
Cash 111 96
Net debt (3,257) (3,286)
Underlying net debt represents amounts repayable to banks and other lenders net of cash retained in the
business.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
78 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 78 31. Related party transactions
Compensation of key management personnel
2006 2005
£000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 2,478 2,255
Post-employment benefits 346 315
Share-based payment 2,078 1,509
4,902 4,079
Key management personnel comprises both executive and non-executive directors
Short-term employee benefits comprises fees, salaries, benefits and performance related bonus as reported in the
Directors' Remuneration Report. Post-employment benefits comprise payments made to the directors' own
personal pension schemes. Share-based payment comprises the fair value of STIP and LTIP awards charged in the
year. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is available in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 37.
Principal subsidiaries
The Group's principal subsidiaries are listed in the following table. The list comprises those companies that
principally affect the results or financial position of the Group.
Company Proportion
of voting
Country of rights and 
Incorporation Holding shares held Nature of business
Held directly by Enterprise Inns plc:
Enterprise Inns Holding Company Limited England Ordinary 100% Investment holding company
shares
Indirectly held by Enterprise Inns plc:
Unique Pub Properties Limited England Ordinary 100% Ownership of licensed 
shares properties
The Unique Pub Finance Company plc England Ordinary 100% Financing acquisitions of
shares licensed property
Cumulative
Redeemable
Preference
shares 100%
Voyager Pub Group Limited England Ordinary 100% Ownership of licensed 
shares properties
32. Events after the balance sheet date
On 20 November 2006 the Group entered into a binding agreement to sell its entire Scottish estate of 137 pubs
to Retail & Licensed Properties Limited for consideration of £115 million.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 79
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 79 33. Transition to IFRS 
This is the first Annual Report and Accounts that has been prepared using IFRS. Comparatives for the year to 
30 September 2005 have been restated from UK GAAP into IFRS to allow proper comparison. Reconciliations of
the opening balance sheet at 1 October 2004 and of the balance sheet and results for the year ended 
30 September 2005 are shown below along with details of the significant decisions made by the Group on
transition to IFRS. 
Since the publication of the Restatement of Financial Information under IFRS released in May 2006, the Group
has amended the 2005 Income Statement and Balance Sheet in respect of the application of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current
assets held for sale and discontinued operations’. This amendment relates to the treatment of the write-down of
property on classification as ‘held for sale' under IFRS 5. The write down to fair value less costs to sell is first
recognised in the Revaluation Reserve, to the extent of any existing surplus for the asset. It is then recognised in
the Income Statement within the line ‘movements from revaluation of pub estate'. Previously, the entire write-
down was recognised in the Income Statement within the line ‘Net profit on sale of property, plant and
equipment’. 
In addition, the 2004 and 2005 Balance Sheet has been reclassified in respect of the application of IAS 1
‘Presentation of financial statements’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’. The
interaction of these two standards means that all derivatives that are not part of a designated and effective
hedging relationship should be classified as current assets or liabilities. The Group has therefore reclassified the
fair value of all interest swaps as current liabilities in 2004 and 2005. Previously, the fair value of the swaps was
allocated between ‘current’ and ‘non-current’ liabilities. 
IFRS 1 — First-time adoption decisions
IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ provides certain exemptions on
transition to IFRS. The significant decisions made by the Group under IFRS 1 are set out below:
Business combinations
The Group has chosen to restate business combinations that have taken place since 1 January 1999 in
accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. The effect of this has been to increase goodwill for deferred tax
liabilities relating to property, plant and equipment and rolled over gains that would have existed at the date of
acquisition had IFRS been in place.
Valuation of properties
IFRS 1 provides the option to use a previous revaluation of property, plant and equipment as ‘deemed cost’ at the
date of transition to IFRS. The Group has decided not to take this option and will also continue to revalue
properties under IAS 16. This treatment is consistent with that adopted under UK GAAP. The Board considers it is
appropriate to continue to adopt this treatment under IFRS to enable the accounts to reflect an up-to-date
valuation of the pub estate.
Employee benefits
The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in relation to its defined benefit
pension scheme on transition to IFRS. Actuarial gains and losses arising after the date of transition will also be
recognised in full in accordance with the Amendment to IAS 19. This treatment is consistent with that adopted
under UK GAAP (FRS 17). This scheme is now closed to new members and for the future accrual of benefits. 
Share-based payment transactions
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ to awards granted after 7 November 2002 but not
vested at 1 January 2005. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
80 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 80 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
Non-current assets held for sale
The Group has chosen to apply IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets held for re-sale and discontinued operations’ from the
date of transition to IFRS. This is permitted by IFRS 1 as the information required to identify assets held for re-sale
was available at the date of transition. This decision has been taken to ensure consistency between accounting
policies for the years to 30 September 2005 and 30 September 2006. 
Comparative information — IAS 32 and IAS 39
The Group has decided not to take the exemption allowed by IFRS 1 to delay adoption of IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ until
the year ending 30 September 2006. As a result, these two standards have been applied from the date of
transition to IFRS. This decision has been taken to ensure consistency between accounting policies for the years
to 30 September 2005 and 30 September 2006.
Adjustments made to the Income Statement
1. Reclassification of ‘other operating income’ (IAS 18)
Income previously shown as ‘other operating income’, which predominantly represents income from amusement
and other machines, has been reclassified as revenue. This follows a review of the Group’s income streams under
IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. 
2. Presentation of dividends (IAS 1)
Under UK GAAP, dividends payable were shown in the Profit and Loss Account. IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial
Statements’ states that dividends payable are shown in equity. The ‘dividends’ line has therefore been removed
from the face of the Income Statement so that the statement ends with profit after tax. 
3. Goodwill (IFRS 3)
Under UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised on a straight line basis over a useful economic life of 20 years. IFRS 3
‘Business Combinations’ states that goodwill should not be amortised. Instead it is tested annually for
impairment. As a result, the amortisation charged during 2005 has been reversed.
4. Interest rate swaps — reversal of UK GAAP accounting (IAS 39)
Under UK GAAP, the interest rate swaps that the Group inherited upon acquisition of subsidiary companies were
held on the balance sheet at their fair value at the date of acquisition. This fair value balance was amortised over
the life of the swap with the amortisation being credited to the Profit and Loss Account. The interest rates swaps
are now accounted for under IAS 39. As a result, the credit arising from the amortisation of the UK GAAP fair
value balance has been reversed. 
5. Interest rate swaps — introduction of IFRS accounting (IAS 39)
IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, states that the swaps must be held on the balance
sheet at fair value. Fair value is remeasured at each balance sheet date and the movement is shown in the
Income Statement unless hedge accounting is adopted. The Group elected not to adopt hedge accounting for any
swaps in the year ending 30 September 2005. A significant proportion of the Group’s swaps are not classified as
‘effective’ under IAS 39 and therefore do not qualify for hedge accounting and it has been decided to apply the
same accounting treatment to all existing swaps. In addition, the administration and cost of monitoring and
assessing the interest rate swaps for effectiveness on a periodic basis will be avoided. 
As a result, the movement in the fair value of the swaps during 2004/05 has been charged to the Income
Statement. It should be noted that the movement in relation to these swaps will vary periodically and could
result in increased volatility in the Income Statement. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 81
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 81 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
6. Depreciation (IAS 16)
Under UK GAAP, no depreciation was charged on any element of the pub estate on the grounds of materiality.
Instead an annual impairment test was carried out on the estate. IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ (‘PPE’)
contains no provision allowing non-depreciation on the grounds of materiality. Each part of PPE that has a cost
that is significant in relation to the total cost must be depreciated separately. 
The Group has concluded that an additional depreciation charge should be incurred under IAS 16 in relation to
landlords’ fixtures and fittings and certain improvements made to buildings. No depreciation is charged on land.
Freehold buildings are depreciated to write off the difference between their carrying value and residual value over
their useful economic life of 50 years. However, no depreciation charge arises in respect of 2004/05 as the
residual value of freehold properties is at least equal to their carrying value. 
7. Pub revaluations (IAS 16/IFRS 5)
Under UK GAAP, all revaluation uplifts were credited to the revaluation reserve. If a pub fell in value the
revaluation deficit was debited to the revaluation reserve to the extent that there was a revaluation credit in
relation to that pub and thereafter if it could be shown that the value in use exceeded the valuation. 
Under IAS 16, any revaluation that causes the book value of a pub to fall below historic cost will lead to a charge
in the Income Statement. The charge will represent the amount by which the pub falls below depreciated historic
cost. If this same pub later recovers in value so that its book value exceeds depreciated historic cost, the increase
in value is credited to the Income Statement to the extent that a debit was previously recognised.
The Income Statement will therefore contain a new line entitled ‘movements from revaluation of pub estate’
showing the impact on the Income Statement of the year-end revaluation exercise. 
Under UK GAAP, pubs held for disposal were valued at their expected sales proceeds net of selling costs. The
amount of any write-down was recognised in the profit and loss account as a ‘provision for loss on sale' and
shown within ‘net profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets'.
Under IFRS, when pubs are classified as held for sale under IFRS 5, they are valued at the lower of book value and
fair value less costs to sell. Any write-down in value as a result of this treatment is first recognised in the
Revaluation Reserve to the extent of any existing surplus for that asset. It is then recognised in the Income
Statement. The amount of any write-down recognised in the Income Statement is also shown in the line
‘movements from revaluation of pub estate'. As a result, an amendment has been made in the Income Statement
to transfer the value of any write-down that would have been recognised in the Revaluation Reserve to the
Balance Sheet. 
8. Leases (IAS 17)
The Group leases a number of pubs from landlords. Under UK GAAP most of these were accounted for within
tangible fixed assets and the Group had attributed a fair value to them on acquisition. Rent was charged to the
Profit and Loss Account as incurred. The Group’s net interests in leasehold assets were held at valuation.
Under IAS 17, most leases have been reclassified as finance leases. The finance lease payable, representing the
present value of future minimum lease payments, has been reclassified and is shown on the balance sheet under
‘financial liabilities’. The carrying value of these properties has been increased by the same amount so that they
are now held at fair value. The properties continue to be held at valuation but one that no longer takes account
of the remaining lease payments. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
82 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 82 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
The remaining leasehold pubs have been classified as held under operating leases. The amount held on the
balance sheet in respect of amounts paid for these pubs has been reclassified from tangible fixed assets to
intangible assets: operating lease premiums. The revaluation surplus relating to these properties has been
reversed as IAS 17 does not permit the revaluation of assets held under operating leases. 
As a result of these changes, some rent payable in the Income Statement has been reclassified as interest
payable. The depreciation charged on short-leasehold properties that have been reclassified as finance leases has
increased as the value of the properties being depreciated has increased to fair value. Operating lease premiums
that have been reclassified on the Balance Sheet are now amortised over the life of the lease.
9. Share-based payments (IFRS 2)
Under UK GAAP, the costs of shares awarded under the Short-Term Incentive Plan (‘STIP’) and Long-Term
Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) were recognised based on the intrinsic value of the shares at the date of grant. This cost
was spread over the performance period of the scheme. No charge was recognised for the Employee Share Option
Scheme (ESOS) as these options have no intrinsic value. An exemption was also in place which meant that no
charge was made for Save as You Earn (SAYE) schemes. 
Under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’, the fair value of share schemes are calculated and the cost is then spread
over the vesting period of each scheme. This results in a new charge for SAYE and ESOS schemes and a revised
charge for the STIP and LTIP. As a result, an additional charge has been recognised in the Income Statement for
share-based payments. 
10. Tax — deferred tax on pub estate (IAS 12)
Under IAS 12, a deferred tax liability has been recognised on the balance sheet relating to the revaluation of the
pub estate and gains previously rolled over, or due to be rolled over, into other assets. The deferred tax liability
that would have been in place at the time of business combinations that have occurred since 1 January 1999 has
resulted in the recognition of additional goodwill as the fair value of the net assets acquired has been reduced. As
this pre-acquisition liability reduces due to capital gains indexation relief, a credit is recognised in the Income
Statement. This has been classified as an exceptional tax item due to its size and because it does not relate to
any income or expense recognised in the Income Statement in the same period. 
11. Tax (IAS 12)
An adjustment has been made to the tax charge to reflect the deferred tax effect of the other IFRS adjustments
where relevant. 
The two tax adjustments do not affect the amount of tax payable in respect of the year ended 30 September
2005. 
Other changes relating to the Income Statement 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their size or nature to allow a
full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. 
Earnings per share (IAS 33)
The calculation of the number of shares for use in the diluted earnings per share calculation is different under IAS
33 ‘Earnings per Share’ to that used under UK GAAP. This is due to the treatment of contingently issuable shares
and the effects of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’. This has resulted in a reduction in the number of shares being
used in this calculation. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 83
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 83 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
Other formatting adjustments
The Group has taken the opportunity to re-format the Income Statement in order to show Earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) as a line item.
Adjustments made to the Balance Sheet
1. Presentation of payables (IAS 1)
IAS 1 states that current tax payable and financial liabilities should be shown separately as line items in the
balance sheet. These items have therefore been split out and shown separately.
2. Presentation of deferred tax (IAS 1)
IAS 1 states that deferred tax should be shown separately as a line item in the balance sheet. This has therefore
been split out from ‘provisions for liabilities and charges’ and shown separately. 
3. Presentation of provisions (IAS 1)
Under UK GAAP, ‘provisions for liabilities and charges’ were shown after ‘creditors falling due after more than one
year’. IAS 1 states that all assets and liabilities should be classified as either ‘current’ or ‘non-current’. As a result,
the provisions in place that relate to a period of one year or less from the balance sheet date have been
identified and moved to current liabilities. 
4. Presentation of pension liability (IAS 19)
Under UK GAAP, the pension liability was shown net of deferred tax. Under IFRS, the pension liability is shown
gross with the related deferred tax asset shown within ‘deferred tax’. As a result, the deferred tax relating to the
pension liability has been reclassified on the balance sheet.
5. Depreciation (IAS 16)
Under UK GAAP, no depreciation was charged on any element of the pub estate on the grounds of materiality.
Under IFRS, the Group has concluded that a depreciation charge should be incurred on landlords’ fixtures and
fittings and certain improvements made to buildings. No depreciation is charged on land. Freehold buildings are
depreciated to write off the difference between their carrying value and residual value over their useful economic
life of 50 years. However, no depreciation charge arises as the residual value of these properties is at least equal
to their carrying value. 
As a result, an adjustment has been made to reflect the charge that would have been recognised under IFRS in
relation to landlords’ fixtures and fittings and certain improvements to buildings. This adjustment is a transfer
between the profit and loss account reserve and the revaluation reserve. 
6. Pub revaluations below historic cost (IAS 16)
Under UK GAAP, all revaluation uplifts were credited to the revaluation reserve. If a pub fell in value the
revaluation deficit was debited to the revaluation reserve to the extent that there was a revaluation credit in
relation to that pub and thereafter if it could be shown that the value in use exceeded the valuation. 
Under IAS 16, any revaluation that causes the book value of a pub to fall below historic cost will lead to a charge
in the Income Statement. The charge will represent the amount by which the pub falls below historic cost. If this
same pub later recovers in value so that its book value exceeds historic cost, the increase in value is credited to
the Income Statement to the extent that a debit was previously recognised.
As a result, on transition to IFRS all deficit balances held in the revaluation reserve were transferred to the profit
and loss account reserve as under IAS 16, these would have been charged to the Income Statement. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
84 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 84 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
7. Non-current assets held for sale (IFRS 5)
Under UK GAAP, all pubs were held within ‘tangible fixed assets’. IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets held for re-sale and
discontinued operations’ creates a new category of asset that is neither a current asset nor a non-current asset.
Freehold and leasehold pubs that are considered to be held for sale rather than held for trading, and that meet
the criteria laid out in IFRS 5, are moved to this new category and shown separately on the balance sheet.
8. Deferred tax on revaluations and rolled over gains (IAS 12) 
Under UK GAAP, no deferred tax was recognised in respect of the unrealised surplus on the revaluation of tangible
fixed assets unless there was a binding commitment to sell the properties at the balance sheet date. In addition,
no provision was included for capital gains on the disposal of properties where the gain was deferred through the
application of capital gains rollover relief as no liability was expected to crystallise. 
IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ states that deferred tax must be provided on all temporary differences between the tax
base cost and carrying value of assets. As a result, a deferred tax liability has been recognised relating to the
revaluation of the pub estate and gains previously rolled over, or due to be rolled over, into other assets. It should
be noted that this liability is not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future. 
The deferred tax liability that would have been in place at the time of business combinations that have occurred
since 1 January 1999 has resulted in the recognition of additional goodwill as the fair value of the net assets
acquired has been reduced. The amount of indexation that would have been credited to the Income Statement in
relation to these pubs is reflected in the Profit and Loss Account Reserve. The deferred tax arising from
revaluations carried out by the Group (i.e. post-acquisitions) is charged to the revaluation reserve. 
9. Goodwill (IFRS 3)
Under UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised on a straight-line basis over a useful economic life of 20 years. IFRS 3
‘Business Combinations’ states that goodwill should not be amortised. Instead it is tested annually for
impairment. Goodwill amortisation that was charged under UK GAAP all relates to business combinations that
have been restated under IFRS 3. The accumulated amortisation has therefore been reversed. Goodwill was tested
for impairment on transition to IFRS and at 30 September 2005 and no impairment was identified. 
10. Proposed dividends (IAS 10)
Under UK GAAP, dividends were accrued and shown as a liability when they were proposed. They were therefore
accounted for in the period to which they related.
IAS 10 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’ states that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should
not be recognised as a liability. As a result, the liability for proposed dividends has been reversed. Final dividends
will now only be recognised when they are approved at the AGM and interim dividends when they are paid. 
11. Interest rate swaps (IAS 39) 
Under UK GAAP, the interest rate swaps that the Group inherited upon acquisition of subsidiary companies were
held on the balance sheet at their fair value at the date of acquisition. This fair value balance was amortised over
the life of the swap with the amortisation being credited to the profit and loss account. 
IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, states that these swaps must be held on the
balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is remeasured at each balance sheet date. As a result, the UK GAAP book
value of the swaps has been replaced by their fair value at the balance sheet date. In addition, the fair value of
swaps that are not classified as hedging instruments under IAS 39 are all shown as ‘current liabilities'. Hedge
accounting was not adopted for any swaps at 30 September 2005. As a result the value of swaps held within non-
current liabilities has been transferred to current liabilities. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 85
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 85 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
12. Leases (IAS 17)
The Group leases a number of pubs from landlords. Under UK GAAP the Group accounted for all leases as
operating leases and rent was charged to the Profit and Loss Account as incurred. Leasehold assets were held
on the balance sheet within tangible fixed assets at valuation.
Under IAS 17, most leases have been re-classified as finance leases. The finance lease payable, representing the
present value of future minimum lease payments, has been reclassified and is shown on the balance sheet
under ‘financial liabilities’. The book value of these properties has been increased by the same amount so that
they are now held at fair value. 
The remaining leasehold pubs have been classified as held under operating leases. The amount held on the
balance sheet in relation to these pubs has been reclassified from tangible fixed assets to intangible assets:
operating lease premiums. The revaluation surplus relating to these properties has been reversed as IAS 17 does
not permit the revaluation of assets held under operating leases. 
13. Tax (IAS 12)
An adjustment is made to reflect the tax impact of the other IFRS adjustments where relevant. 
Other changes relating to the Balance Sheet 
Net debt
The amount of underlying net debt, defined as the amount repayable to banks and other lenders, net of cash
retained within the business, is unchanged by the adoption of IFRS. However, net debt as presented in the
balance sheet has changed due to the treatment of interest rate swaps under IAS 39 and leases under IAS 17. 
Cash flow statement
The transition to IFRS has no effect on reported cash flows generated by the Group. The IFRS cash flow
statement is presented in a different format from that required under UK GAAP. Cash flows are split into three
categories — operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The changes made to the cash
flow have no effect on the total cash flows generated by the business.
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
JOB 12997 — PROOF 04 — 04/12/2006
86 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 86 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of Group Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2005
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
Restated#
Deprecia- Revalua- Share Restated# IFRS
UK GAAP Revenue Dividends Goodwill Swaps Swaps tion tions Leases schemes Tax Tax Restated#
£m IAS18 IAS 1 IFRS 3 IAS 39 IAS 39 IAS 16 IAS 16 IAS 17 IFRS 2 IAS 12 IAS 12 £m
Revenue 919.9 32.2 952.1
Cost of sales (385.1) 0.4 (384.7)
Gross profit 534.8 567.4
Administrative expenses (38.9) (0.5) (39.4)
Other operating income 32.2 (32.2) 0.0
EBITDA 528.1 528.0
Depreciation of owned property,
plant and equipment (1.4) (5.9) (7.3)
Depreciation and amortisation
of leasehold properties (2.2) (0.6) (2.8)
Amortisation of goodwill (4.3) 4.3 0.0
Group operating profit 520.2 517.9
Interest receivable 8.9 8.9
Interest payable (223.5) (12.7) (0.4) (236.6)
Profit before tax and
exceptional items 305.6 290.2
Exceptional finance costs:
Write-off of unamortised issue costs (4.6) (4.6)
Movement in fair value of
interest rate swaps 0.0 (19.6) (19.6)
Other exceptional items:
Profit on disposal of
associated undertaking 0.2 0.2
Net profit on disposal of property,
plant and equipment 2.7 11.1 13.8
Movements arising from
revaluation of pub estate 0.0 (4.4) (4.4)
Profit before tax 303.9 275.6
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (92.1) 6.8 (85.3)
Exceptional tax item:
Reduction in deferred tax liability
due to indexation 0.0 19.2 19.2
Group profit on ordinary
activities after tax 211.8 0.0 0.0 4.3 (12.7) (19.6) (5.9) 6.7 (0.6) (0.5) 19.2 6.8 209.5
Dividends (61.4) 61.4 —
Retain profit for the period 150.4 —
# See note 1
EPS — basic 61.9p 61.0p
EPS — basic diluted 61.1p 60.3p
EPS — adjusted 63.2p 58.4p
EPS — adjusted diluted — 57.7p
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
JOB 12997 — PROOF 04 — 04/12/2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 87
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 87 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of Group Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2005
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Presentation of Deprecia- Revalua- Pubs Deferred Restated# Restated# IFRS
UK GAAP financial statements Pensions tion tions for sale tax Goodwill Dividends Swaps Leases TaxRestated#
£m IAS 1 IAS 1 IAS 1 IAS 19 IAS 16 IAS 16 IFRS 5 IAS 12 IFRS 3 IAS 10 IAS 39 IAS 17 IAS 12 £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 75.3 330.5 11.1 416.9
Intangible assets: operating
lease premiums 0.0 27.1 27.1
Property, plant and
equipment 5,217.2 (35.9) (24.6) 5,156.7
5,292.5 5,600.7
Current assets
Assets held for sale 7.1 7.1
Trade and other receivables 81.4 81.4
Cash 95.5 95.5
184.0 184.0
Non-current assets
held for sale 0.0 35.9 35.9
Total assets 5,476.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 330.5 11.1 0.0 0.0 2.5 0.0 5,820.6
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (331.1) 71.7 42.2 (217.2)
Current tax payable (46.0) (46.0)
Financial liabilities (26.7) (95.0) (121.7)
Provisions (1.2) (1.2)
(331.1) (386.1)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (3,299.5) 1.0 44.2 (5.9) (3,260.2)
Accruals and deferred income (5.0) (5.0)
Provisions (99.9) 92.2 1.2 (6.5)
Deferred Tax (92.2) 0.0 (525.8) 27.7 (590.3)
Pension liabilities (0.1) 0.0 (0.1)
(3,404.5) (3,862.1)
Total
liabilities (3,735.6) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (525.8) 0.0 42.2 (50.8) (5.9) 27.7 (4,248.2)
Net Assets 1,740.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (195.3) 11.1 42.2 (50.8) (3.4) 27.7 1,572.4
Equity
Called up share capital 17.5 17.5
Share premium account 485.5 485.5
Revaluation reserve 810.0 45.3 60.4 (238.7) (2.8) (7.5) 666.7
Capital redemption reserve 7.6 7.6
Merger reserve 77.0 77.0
Other reserve (55.6) (55.6)
Profit and Loss
Account 398.9 (45.3) (60.4) 43.4 11.1 42.2 (50.8) (0.6) 35.2 373.7
Total equity 1,740.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (195.3) 11.1 42.2 (50.8) (3.4) 27.7 1,572.4
# See note 1
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
JOB 12997 — PROOF 04 — 04/12/2006
88 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 88 33. Transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of Group Balance Sheet at 1 October 2004 (date of transition)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Presentation of Deprecia- Revalua- Pubs Deferred Restated# Restated# IFRS
UK GAAP financial statements Pensions tion tions for sale tax Goodwill Dividends Swaps Leases TaxRestated#
£m IAS 1 IAS 1 IAS 1 IAS 19 IAS 16 IAS 16 IFRS 5 IAS 12 IFRS 3 IAS 10 IAS 39 IAS 17 IAS 12 £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 79.6 330.5 6.8 416.9
Intangible assets: operating
lease premiums 0.0 28.4 28.4
Property, plant and equipment4,931.8 (32.5) (26.5) 4,872.8
Investments 0.2 0.2
Financial assets 0.0 0.3 0.3
5,011.6 5,318.6
Current assets
Assets held for sale 4.6 4.6
Trade and other receivables 85.7 85.7
Cash 146.7 146.7
237.0 237.0
Non-current assets
held for sale 0.0 32.5 32.5
Total assets 5,248.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 330.5 6.8 0.0 0.3 1.9 0.0 5,588.1
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (309.4) 58.7 28.7 (222.0)
Current tax payable 0.0 (31.8) (31.8)
Financial liabilities 0.0 (26.9) (76.8) (103.7)
Provisions 0.0 (0.4) (0.4)
(309.4) (357.9)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (3,509.2) 58.0 (6.0) (3,457.2)
Provisions (73.7) 67.7 0.4 (5.6)
Deferred Tax 0.0 (67.7) 1.1 (469.9) 12.6 (523.9)
Pension liabilities (2.7) (1.1) (3.8)
(3,585.6) (3,990.5)
Total liabilities (3,895.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (469.9) 0.0 28.7 (18.8) (6.0) 12.6 (4,348.4)
Net Assets 1,353.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (139.4) 6.8 28.7 (18.5) (4.1) 12.6 1,239.7
Equity
Called up share capital 17.5 17.5
Share premium account 485.5 485.5
Revaluation reserve 541.8 39.4 67.5 (163.6) (4.1) (8.6) 472.4
Capital redemption reserve 7.6 7.6
Merger reserve 77.0 77.0
Other reserve (28.1) (28.1)
Profit and Loss
Account 252.3 (39.4) (67.5) 24.2 6.8 28.7 (18.5) 21.2 207.8
Total equity 1,353.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (139.4) 6.8 28.7 (18.5) (4.1) 12.6 1,239.7
# See note 1
Notes to the Group Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 89
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 89 We have audited the Group financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2006
which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the
Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 33. These Group financial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year
ended 30 September 2006 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as
having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance
with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, the Group
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation and whether the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial
statements. 
We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not
disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
Group financial statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Chairman’s
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review (incorporating the Business Review), the Corporate Responsibility
Report, Directors and Advisers and the Corporate Governance statement. We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Enterprise Inns plc
90 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 90 our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial
statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
n the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the
European Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2006 and of its profit for the year then
ended; 
n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
n the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Birmingham
21 November 2006
Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Enterprise Inns plc
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 91
Note:
The maintenance and integrity of the Enterprise Inns plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work
carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially
presented on the website.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 91 Year ended 30 September 2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 970 952 920 713 481 369
Operating profit 537 518 520 369 254 179
Profit before tax and exceptionals 315 290 306 231 173 115
Profit after tax 325 209 212 148 125 64
Adjusted earnings per share (pence)* 68.3 58.4 63.2 47.5 36.1 29.5
* Excludes exceptional items. 
Year ended 30 September 2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 5,787 5,601 5,293 5,012 2,692 2,387
Current assets† 222 220 184 237 48 60
Current liabilities (317) (386) (331) (309) (306) (224)
Non-current liabilities (4,016) (3,862) (3,405) (3,586) (1,352) (1,531)
Net assets 1,676 1,573 1,741 1,354 1,082 692
† Includes non-current assets held for re-sale in IFRS figures 
Five Year Record
92 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 92 Enterprise Inns plc
Company Accounts 2005/06
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 93
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 93 94 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Restated*
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 2,830 2,723
Investments 3 1,963 1,011
Financial assets 1 —
4,794 3,734
Current assets
Assets held for sale 4 5 5
Debtors 5 330 240
Cash at bank and in hand 6 —
Financial assets 1 —
342 245
Creditors: amounts falling due 
within one year 6 (1,104) (1,036)
Net current liabilities (762) (791)
Creditors: amounts falling due 
after more than one year 7 (1,606) (1,442)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 (89) (61)
2,337 1,440
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 16 17
Share premium account 11 486 486
Revaluation reserve 11 776 621
Capital redemption reserve 11 9 8
Treasury share reserve 11 (227) —
Other reserve 11 (42) (56)
Profit and loss account 11 1,319 364
Shareholders' equity 2,337 1,440
* See note 1.
Approved by the Board on 21 November 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
G E Tuppen
D C George
Company Balance Sheet
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 94 Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 95
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of
properties and have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. No Profit
and Loss Account is presented for Enterprise Inns plc as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions of FRS 1 (revised) which exempts companies which are part
of a group which has published a consolidated cash flow statement from preparing a cash flow statement.
Accordingly, no cash flow statement for the Company has been presented.
These accounts are for the Company and are not consolidated financial statements. Separate consolidated
financial statements for the Group are prepared under IFRS and are published separately within this document.
Change in accounting policies
The Company adopted the following new accounting standards on 1 October 2005 which require changes in
accounting policy:
Share-based payments (FRS 20)
The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment schemes. Share-based payments are
measured at fair value at the date of award and this value is subsequently updated at each balance sheet date for
management’s best estimate of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions on the number of equity
instruments that will ultimately vest. The cost is recognised as an expense over the vesting period by 
calculating the cumulative expense and recognising the movement in the cumulative expense in the Profit and
Loss Account. A corresponding entry is made to equity. The fair value of share options is measured using valuation
models. On adoption of this standard a deferred tax asset was recognised.
Post-balance sheet events (FRS 21)
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are no longer reported as liabilities. Proposed dividends are no
longer shown in the Profit and Loss Account or accrued for in the balance sheet. 
Financial Instruments (FRS 26)
The Company's existing interest rate swap is now recognised on the balance sheet at fair value. The swap is
remeasured at every balance sheet date. Any change in the value of the swap is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account unless hedge accounting is adopted. Hedge accounting has not been adopted for the year ended 30
September 2006. Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this accounting treatment. The Company
has not adopted any of the transitional provisions of FRS 26. On adoption of this standard a deferred tax asset was
recognised.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 95 1. Accounting policies (continued)
The impact on the balance sheet of these adjustments is as follows:
Creditors:
Creditors: amounts Provisions
amounts falling due for Shareholders’ Shareholders’
falling due after more liabilities equity equity
within than and 30 Sept 1 Oct
one year one year charges 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
As previously reported (1,018) (1,479) (89) 1,393 1,174
Adoption of FRS 20 — deferred tax asset — — 8 8 4
Adoption of FRS 21 — dividends 42 — — 42 29
Adoption of FRS 26 — fair value of swaps (60) 37 — (23) (3)
Adoption of FRS 26 — deferred tax asset — — 20 20 15
Shareholders equity as restated (1,036) (1,442) (61) 1,440 1,219
The impact on the profit for 2005 is as follows:
£m
Profit after tax as previously reported 172
FRS 20 - share based payment charge (1)
FRS 26 - reversal of UK GAAP fair value release (5)
FRS 26 - movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (15)
Tax adjustments relating to above items 2
153
The application of the above accounting policies in the current year gives rise to the recognition of a credit of £22
million arising from the movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
The Company also adopted the following new accounting standards but these standards have no impact on the
amounts reported in the financial statements. Only those new standards that are relevant to the Company have
been listed below:
n FRS 22 Earnings per Share
n FRS 25 Financial Instruments: disclosure and presentation (replaced by FRS 29)
n FRS 28 Corresponding amounts
n FRS 29 Financial instruments: Disclosure — the exemption has been taken per FRS 29.2D(b). The Company is
exempt from producing the disclosures required by the standard as the Group accounts contain disclosure that
complies with FRS 29.
96 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 96 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 97
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Significant accounting policies
Tangible fixed assets 
Expenditure on additions and improvements to tangible fixed assets is capitalised as the expenditure is incurred. 
Substantially all of the Group's licensed estate is valued each year on an existing use basis. Surpluses arising from
the professional valuation of the estate are recognised in the Revaluation Reserve. Valuation surpluses realised on
sale are transferred to the Profit and Loss Account reserve. Any deficit arising from the valuation of properties is
recognised in the Revaluation Reserve until the carrying amount reaches historical cost and, thereafter, to the
extent that the value in use can be demonstrated to be higher than valuation. Any other deficit is charged to the
Profit and Loss Account. 
It is the Company's policy to maintain properties comprising the licensed estate in such condition that the residual
values of the properties are at least equal to their book values. Having regard to this, it is the opinion of the
directors that depreciation of any such property as required by the Companies Act 1985 and generally accepted
accounting practice would not be material. An annual impairment review is carried out on such properties.
Short leasehold properties, defined as properties with 50 years or less of the lease remaining unexpired, are
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Depreciation is provided on other categories of tangible fixed assets over 3 to 50 years on a straight-line basis to
residual value.
Leases and hire purchase commitments
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the
lease term.
Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of cost incurred and net realisable value. Net realisable value is based
on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred on disposal.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Deferred tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of
timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance
sheet date where transactions or events that results in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the
future have occurred at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions:
n Provision is made for gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets on
where, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding commitment to dispose of the replacement assets with
no likely subsequent rollover or available capital losses.
n Provision is made for deferred tax on gains on revalued fixed assets only where there is a commitment to dispose
of the revalued assets and the attributable gain can neither be rolled over or eliminated by capital losses.
n Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not
that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences
can be deducted.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 97 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in
which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.
Treasury shares
The cost of own shares held in employee benefit trusts and in treasury are deducted from shareholders’ equity until
the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Any proceeds received are also taken to shareholders’ equity. No
gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of own shares held.
Revenue recognition
Beer and cider sales and wines, spirits and minerals sales are recognised when these goods are delivered to our
customers. Rents receivable from the licensed estate and machine income are recognised in the accounting period
to which the income relates. 
Capital instruments
Finance costs in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is allocated to periods over the term of the
instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount. 
Use of accounting estimates and judgements
The Company makes estimates and assumptions during the preparation of the financial statements. Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The estimates and assumptions that
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below:
a) Property, Plant and Equipment
Properties are valued annually at open market value in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual
published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The valuation is based on market observations and
estimates the amount that would be paid by a willing buyer to a willing seller in an arms’ length transaction after
proper marketing. Non-current assets held for sale are valued at their market value less any costs that may be
incurred to sell the pub. 
The Company estimates the useful economic life and residual value of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and
these estimates influence the depreciation charged each year. For details of these estimates, see the detailed
accounting policy for PPE. 
b) Valuation of interest rate swaps
The Company measures interest rate swaps at fair value at each balance sheet date. The swap valuation rates are
derived from the mid point of the zero coupon prevailing at the close of business on the balance sheet date. The
fair value represents the net present value of the difference between the projected cash flows at the swap contract
rate and the valuation rate for the period from the balance sheet date to the contracted expiry rate. The calculation
therefore uses estimates of present values and future interest rates.
98 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 98 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 99
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
2. Tangible fixed assets
Licensed Landlords
land and fixtures Other
buildings and fittings assets Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2005 2,614 100 16 2,730
Reclassifications (3) — 3 —
Additions 85 26 8 119
Provision for loss on sale (2) — — (2)
Revaluations 176 — — 176
Disposals (171) (13) (1) (185)
At 30 September 2006 2,699 113 26 2,838
Depreciation
At 1 October 2005 4 — 3 7
Charge for the year 1 — 2 3
Disposals (1) — (1) (2)
At 30 September 2006 4 — 4 8
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 2,695 113 22 2,830
At 30 September 2005 2,610 100 13 2,723
Assets held for use by lessees under operating leases are detailed below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Gross book value 2,577 2,523
Accumulated depreciation (3) (3)
Net book value 2,574 2,520
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 
With the exception of properties identified for disposal, the Company's licensed land and buildings were revalued
as at 30 September 2006 by Humberts Leisure Limited, independent Chartered Surveyors, and by the Head of
Estates, Simon Millar MRICS, Chartered Surveyor.
The land and buildings were valued at market value (as defined within RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards
‘Red Book’), reflecting the current and future rent and other income streams which are expected to be generated
by each property capitalised at an appropriate yield. The valuation also takes account of the terms of the leases
or tenancies under which the properties are let. Market value is influenced by factors such as income, location,
pub quality and tenure. The valuations are made by reference to market transactions within the UK pub sector.
The pubs used as security for the secured bonds and debenture in Enterprise Inns plc have been valued by
Humberts Leisure Limited. The balance of the estate held in Enterprise Inns plc has been valued by the Head of
Estates. The results of this valuation have been compared to that of the external valuers confirming that the
results are entirely consistent.
Pubs identified for disposal are held at their realisable value. This value is based on the estimated realisable
disposal proceeds (ERV) which are provided by third party property agents who have been engaged to sell the
properties.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 99 2. Tangible fixed assets (continued)
The net book value of licensed land and buildings comprises:
2006 2005
£m £m
Freehold 2,581 2,481
Long leasehold 98 108
Short easehold 16 21
2,695 2,610
The net book value of licensed land and buildings and landlords’ fixtures and fittings comprises: 
2006 2005
£m £m
Licensed estate at valuation 2,807 2,702
Licensed estate at cost 1 8
2,808 2,710
The historical cost net book value of licensed premises included at valuation is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
2,035 2,081
3. Investments
Subsidiary Other
undertakings Investment Total
£m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 October 2005 1,034 — 1,034
Additions 950 2 952
At 30 September 2006 1,984 2 1,986
Provision
At 1 October (23) — (23)
Charge in year ———
At 30 September 2006 (23) — (23)
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 1,961 2 1,963
At 30 September 2005 1,011 — 1,011
100 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 100 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 101
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
3. Investments (continued)
During the year, the Company disposed of 511 pubs to Admiral Taverns. Part of the consideration received was £2
million of preference shares which are shown above as other investment'. Details of the investment held are as
follows: 
Proportion
of voting Proportion 
Country of rights and of voting Nature of
Incorporation Holding shares held rights business
Admiral Taverns (780) Limited England Non- 100% Nil Ownership of licensed properties 
redeemable
Preference
Shares
The non-redeemable preference shares accrue interest daily at the rate of 8 pence per share per annum. The
dividend is payable in priority over any dividend to ordinary share holders. The dividend is payable monthly in
arrears and any dividend that is not paid on the due date attracts interest at a fixed rate of 8% per annum.
The Company's principal subsidiaries are listed in the following table. 
Company Proportion
Country of rights and 
Incorporation Holding shares held Nature of business
Held directly by Enterprise Inns plc:
Enterprise Inns Holding Company Limited England Ordinary 100% Investment holding company
shares
Indirectly held by Enterprise Inns plc:
Unique Pub Properties Limited England Ordinary 100% Ownership of licensed 
shares properties
The Unique Pub Finance Company plc England Ordinary 100% Financing acquisitions of
shares licensed property
Cumulative
Redeemable
Preference
shares 100%
Voyager Pub Group Limited England Ordinary 100% Ownership of licensed 
shares properties
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 101 4. Assets held for sale
2006 2005
£m £m
Fixtures and fittings and stock purchased from tenants 5 5
5. Debtors
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade debtors 55 42
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 254 175
Other debtors 2 —
Prepayments and accrued income 19 23
330 240
6. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Restated#
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank overdraft 16 4
Interest rate swap 22 67
Trade creditors 17 10
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 853 758
Corporation tax 36 29
Other creditors including tax and social security 34 37
Accruals and deferred income 126 131
1,104 1,036
# See note 1.
7. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Restated#
2006 2005
£m £m
Syndicated bank borrowings 421 256
Corporate bonds 1,181 1,181
Accruals and deferred income 4 5
1,606 1,442
# See note 1.
102 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 102 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 103
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
103 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
8. Financial Instruments
2006 2005
Book value Book value
Interest rate £m £m
Overdraft 16 4
Syndicated bank borrowings LIBOR + 0.6% 421 256
Corporate bonds:
Debenture — issued 3 February 1999 6% 59 59
Secured bond — issued 9 May 2000 6.875% 124 124
Secured bond — issued 15 February 2001 6.875% 124 124
Secured bond — issued 26 February 2002 6.375% 272 272
Secured bond — issued 3 March 2003 6.5% 602 602
1,181 1,181
Interest rate swaps:
£275m swap expiring 1 June 2012 6.662% 22 —
£350m swap expiring 30 September 2011 4.887% (2) —
£550m swap expiring 1 June 2012 6.662% — 67
20 67
Total financial assets and liabilities 1,638 1,508
Bank debt and corporate bonds are repayable in full at maturity.
The maturity of the Company's debt and undrawn committed borrowings, including interest rate swaps, is set 
out below:
2006 2005
£m £m
In more than five years 1,184 1,203
In more than two years but not more than five years 435 242
In more than one year but not more than two years 4 73
In one year or less or on demand 20 19
1,643 1,537
The table above shows the contractural, undiscounted cash flows due in future periods to settle the company’s
debt. The total amount payable shown above differs from the total book value of company debt of £1,638m as the
book value of debt includes the fair value of the interest rates swaps which is based on discounted cash flows.
Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 September are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Expiring in
In more than five years — —
In more than two years but not more than five years 575 230
In more than one year but not more than two years — —
In one year or less or on demand — —
575 230
The undrawn facilities relate to the undrawn element of the syndicated bank facility.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 103 8. Financial Instruments (continued)
Security
The syndicated bank borrowings of £421 million and corporate bonds of £1,181 million are secured creditors. 
Syndicated bank borrowings are secured by a security deed entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries
excluding Enterprise Inns Holding Company Limited and its subsidiaries and Unique Pubs Limited and its
subsidiaries. The lenders have a floating charge over all of the assets and undertakings of such companies. The
floating charge ranks subsequent to the fixed charges created by the debenture and secured bonds.
Debenture and secured bond finance in the Company is secured pursuant to Trust Deeds entered into by the
Company.
n The debenture issued on 3 February 1999 is secured by fixed charges over 190 properties created in a trust
deed dated 3 February 1999.
n The secured bonds issued on 9 May 2000 are secured by fixed charges over 318 properties created in a trust
deed dated 9 May 2000.
n The secured bonds issued on 15 February 2001 are secured by fixed charges over 269 properties created in a
trust deed dated 15 February 2001.
n The secured bonds issued on 26 February 2002 are secured by fixed charges over 578 properties created in a
trust deed dated 26 February 2002.
n The secured bonds issued on 3 March 2003 are secured by fixed charges over 1,290 properties created in a
trust deed dated 3 March 2003.
104 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 104 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 105
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
9. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Restated*
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax (note 9a) 86 58
Onerous lease (note 9b) 3 3
89 61
a) Deferred tax
£m
At 1 October 2005 86
Deferred tax impact of adoption of FRS 20 (note 1) (8)
Deferred tax impact of adoption of FRS 26 (note 1) (20)
At 1 October 2005 restated 58
Transfer of deferred tax provision relating to interest rate swap novation 12
Deferred tax charge in the profit and loss account:
Accelerated capital allowances 4
Fair value of interest rate swaps 14
Interest rate swap novation (2)
At 30 September 2006 86
The deferred tax in the Company balance sheet at 30 September comprises:
Restated*
2006 2005
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 90 86
Interest rate swap novation 10 —
Fair value of interest rate swaps (6) (20)
Share-based payments (8) (8)
86 58
* See note 1.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 105 9. Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued)
The amounts of deferred tax not provided in the accounts are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Rolled over gains 63 24
Unrealised surplus on the revaluation of fixed assets 340 321
403 345
No provision has been included in respect of capital gains on the disposal of properties that have already been
deferred, or are expected to be deferred, through application of capital gains rollover relief into replacement
assets as no liability is expected to arise.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of unrealised surplus on the revaluation of fixed assets as there
was no binding commitment to sell properties at the balance sheet date.
b) Onerous lease provision
£m
At 1 October 2005 and 30 September 2006 3
The provision relates to future commitments under onerous lease agreements. The provision is expected to be
utilised as the pubs are disposed of. The remaining lease terms vary from 5 to 64 years.
10. Share capital
Authorised: 2006 2005
No. £m No. £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 500,000,000 25 500,000,000 25
Allotted, called up and fully paid: 2006 2005
Ordinary shares of 5p each No. £m No. £m
At 1 October 349,505,390 17 349,505,390 17
Cancelled (17,340,815) (1) ——
At 30 September 332,164,575 16 349,505,390 17
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to vote at meetings.
At 30 September 2006, the Company owned 25 million of its own shares as treasury shares with a nominal value
of £1 million and a market value of £264 million (2005 — nil). Transaction costs of £3 million (2005 — nil) have
been accounted for directly in equity in the profit and loss reserve. 
In addition, the Company held 6,870,253 shares with a nominal value of £0.3 million and a market value of £72
million (2005 — 9,248,445 shares, nominal value £0.5 million, market value £78 million). These shares are held by
the Employee Benefit Trust and Enterprise Inns Quest Trustees Limited and are shares used to satisfy awards made
under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans and other share option schemes (note 15).
106 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 106 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 107
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
11. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders' equity
Share Capital Treasury Profit
Share premium Revaluation redemption share Other and loss
Capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve* account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2004 
as reported 17 486 483 8 — (28) 208 1,174
Effect of adopting FRS 21 
(note 1) — — — — — — 29 29
Effect of adopting FRS 26 
(note 1) — — — — — — (3) (3)
Deferred tax impact of adoption 
of FRS 20 (note 1) — — — — — — 4 4
Deferred tax impact of adoption 
of FRS 26 (note 1) — — — — — — 15 15
At 1 October 2004 restated 17 486 483 8 0 (28) 253 1,219
Profit for the year — — — — — — 153 153
Surplus on revaluation 
of estate — — 140 — — — — 140
Transfer of realised 
Revaluation surplus — — (2) — — — 2 —
Equity dividends paid — — — — — — (48) (48)
Purchase of shares to 
be held in trust — — — — — (37) — (37)
Employee share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — —— —— 3 (3) —
Directors' share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — — — — — 6 (3) 3
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit — — — — — — 3 3
Deferred tax on share schemes 
recognised in reserves — — — — — — 7 7
At 1 October 2005 restated 17 486 621 8 0 (56) 364 1,440
Profit for the year — — — — — — 1,175 1,175
Surplus on revaluation 
of estate — — 176 — — — — 176
Transfer of realised 
revaluation surplus — — (21) — — — 21 —
Equity dividends paid — — — — — — (70) (70)
Consideration paid for purchase 
of own shares — — — — (227) — (3) (230)
Cancellation of shares (1) — — 1 — — (166) (166)
Employee share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — — — — — 11 (7) 4
Directors' share option entitlements 
exercised in the year — — — — — 3 (3) —
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit — — — — — — 3 3
Deferred tax on share schemes 
recognised in reserves — — — — — — 5 5
At 30 September 2006 16 486 776 9 (227) (42) 1,319 2,337
* Other reserve comprises own shares held by employee share trusts.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 107 12. Profit earned for ordinary shareholders
The Profit and Loss Account is not included in the Company's accounts by virtue of the exemption granted by
section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. Profit after tax during the year amounted to £1,175 million (2005 —
£153 million as restated for the adoption of FRS 20 and FRS 26 — see note 1).
Remuneration paid to the auditors in the year was as follows. This note is shown rounded to the nearest
thousand.
2006 2005
£000 £000
Audit of the financial statements 154 130
Other fees to auditors:
Taxation services 120 103
Accounting advice in relation to share-based payment schemes 28 63
Company secretarial services 8 46
Other services — 4
310 346
13. Staff costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 24 26
Social security costs 3 3
Other pension costs 2 2
29 31
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense relating to share-based payments of £3 million (2005 — £3
million). All of this expense arises from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments 
Other pension costs represents payments made into employees individual defined contribution plans. 
The average monthly number of employees comprised:
2006 2005
No. No.
Operations staff 244 230
Administration staff 283 309
527 539
Details of Directors' Remuneration is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
108 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 108 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 109
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
14. Dividends
2006 2005
Paid during the year £m £m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend relating to prior year 14.4 pence (2004 — 8.4 pence) 42 29
Interim dividend for current year 9.0 pence (2005 — 5.6 pence) 28 19
70 48
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM
Final dividend for current year 18.0 pence (2005 — 14.4 pence) 54 42
The dividends relating to shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and shares held in treasury have been waived.
15. Share-based payments
The Company operates share-based payment schemes for both directors and other employees. Details of the
Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which form part of the remuneration of the
executive directors’ are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 37. 
The Company also operates an Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS), a Savings Related Share Option Scheme
(SAYE) and a Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
Share Incentive Plan
The SIP is open to all employees. At times determined by the Company, employees may allocate the lower of
£1,500 and 10% of pre-tax salary to purchase shares out of their salary. The Board may also decide to award
matching shares. The shares are held in trust on behalf of the employee. If shares are removed from trust within
three years, any allocation of matching shares may be lost. Shares can be transferred tax-free to employees after
a period of five years. This scheme is operating for the first time in 2005/06 and matching shares were awarded.
The cost of the matching shares is being spread over the three year vesting period of the scheme. 
Employee Share Option Scheme 
The ESOS scheme is open to all employees. Share options are awarded to employees at the discretion of the
Board. The current intention of the Board is to issue options with an exercise price equal to the market value of a
share at grant date. Options will normally vest after 3 years if an employee remains in service and if EPS growth
targets are met. For options granted during the year ended 30 September 2006 options will only vest in full if the
average compound annual percentage growth in adjusted EPS between the grant date and the third anniversary
of the grant date is 8.33%. Options may normally only be exercised during the period of 7 years commencing on
the third anniversary of the date of grant of the option. Options will usually be settled by issuing ordinary shares
held by the Employee Benefit Trust. 
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 109 15. Share-based payments (continued)
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted 
Number of average Number of average
share exercise share exercise 
options price £ options price £
Outstanding at 1 October 4,335,827 4.43 4,536,348 3.08
Granted 1,020,750 8.89 1,192,500 7.18
Exercised (1,698,746) 2.83 (1,344,043) 2.33
Forfeited/expired (341,697) 6.08 (48,978) 4.23
Outstanding at 30 September* 3,316,134 4,335,827 4.43
Weighted average remaining contractual life 6.5 years 5.9 years
* Included in this balance are 133,731 options (2005 — 453,327) which have not been accounted for under FRS 20
as they were granted before 7 November 2002. Such options are not accounted for under FRS 20 in line with the
transitional provisions of this standard. Options will only vest in full if certain performance criteria are met.
Options outstanding at 30 September 2006 comprise the following:
Number of
share Exercise
Exercise date options price
Exercisable: £
14/12/02–14/12/09 1,344 1.63
18/12/03–18/12/10 52,828 1.70
11/12/04–11/12/11 79,559 2.58
16/12/05–16/12/12 258,740 2.81
392,471
Not yet exercisable:
08/12/06–08/12/13 940,000 4.90
07/12/07–07/12/14 800,250 7.02
18/05/08–18/05/15 289,500 7.57
06/12/09–06/12/16 893,913 8.89
2,923,663
3,316,134
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year under the ESOS was £1.46 (2005 — £1.31).
110 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 110 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 111
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
15. Share-based payments (continued)
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
The SAYE scheme is open to executive directors and employees at the discretion of the Board. Participants
contract to save a fixed amount each month with a savings institution for a period of five or seven years. At the
end of the savings term, participants are given the option to purchase shares at a price set before the savings
began. The option price will be not less than 80% of the market value of a share on the date that participants are
invited to take part in the scheme, or the nominal value of a share if lower. Options will usually be settled using
ordinary shares held by Enterprise Inns Quest Trustees Ltd (an employee benefit trust) and will usually be
exercisable for six months after the fifth or seventh anniversary of the commencement of the savings contract. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted 
Number of average Number of average
share exercise share exercise 
options price £ options price £
Outstanding at 1 October 915,136 2.70 946,134 2.18
Granted 130,774 7.07 144,016 5.45
Exercised (209,579) 1.27 (102,135) 1.53
Forfeited/expired (58,464) 4.78 (72,879) 3.02
Outstanding at 30 September* 777,867 915,136 2.70
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.8 years 2.9 years
* Included in this balance are 142,146 options (2005: 351,058) which have not been accounted for under FRS 20
as they were granted before 7 November 2002. Such options are not accounted for under FRS 20 in line with the
transitional provisions of this standard. 
Options outstanding at 30 September 2006 comprise the following:
Number of
share Exercise
Exercise date options price
Not yet exercisable:
01/02/07–01/08/07 28,700 1.41
01/02/08–01/08/08 5,576 1.25
01/02/07–01/08/09 107,870 2.10
01/02/08–01/08/10 267,745 2.32
01/02/09–01/08/11 137,213 3.73
01/02/10–01/08/12 116,349 5.45
01/02/11–01/08/13 114,414
777,867
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year under the SAYE scheme was £2.60 (2005 —
£2.12).
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 111 15. Share-based payments (continued)
STIP and LTIP
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the STIP and LTIP plans. A summary of the rules of these schemes
along with details of options that have been granted and are outstanding in relation to individual directors is
included in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 37. 
Details of the total number of shares outstanding during the year are as follows:
2006 2005
LTIP STIP LTIP STIP
Number of Number of Number of Number of
share share share share
options options options options
Outstanding at 1 October 1,665,436 135,133 1,624,478 163,508
Granted† 347,979 48,335 410,578 52,283
Exercised (453,383) (44,368) (369,620) (80,658)
Forfeited/expired (111,475) (725) ——
Outstanding at 30 September* 1,448,557 138,375 1,665,436 135,133
Weighted average remaining contractual life 4.9 years 3.0 years 6.8 years 5.7 years
Directors pay £1 to exercise awards granted under the STIP and LTIP. This is a one-off charge. All of the shares
outstanding at 30 September are not yet exercisable.
† The share price at which the number of shares granted under the STIP scheme is calculated will not be
confirmed until after the date of the approval of the accounts. The number of STIP shares granted during the year
is therefore estimated using the closing share price on 30 September 2006.
* Included in this balance are 40,941 LTIP shares (2005: 494,324) which have not been accounted for under FRS
20 as they were granted before 7 November 2002. Such shares are not accounted for under FRS 20 in line with
the transitional provisions of this standard.
Awards will only vest in full if certain performance criteria are met.
The weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year under the STIP was £9.51 (2005 — £8.07) and
under the LTIP was £5.90 (2005 — £5.03).
The weighted average share price on exercise of shares and share options during the year was £9.56.
112 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 112 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 113
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
15. Share-based payments (continued)
Fair value of share schemes
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using share option
valuation models. The ESOS, SAYE and STIP schemes are valued using the Black-Scholes model. The element of
the LTIP scheme that relates to non-market conditions is valued using the Black-Scholes model. The element of
the LTIP that includes market conditions is valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation Model. 
The following tables list the inputs to the models for options granted during the year:
ESOS SAYE
Weighted average: 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share price (£) 9 7.18 9 6.81
Exercise price (£) 9 7.18 7 5.45
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.2% 2.4% 2.2%
Expected volatility 21% 23% 21% 22%
Risk-free interest rate 4.2% 4.3% 4.2% 4.46%
Expected life of option (years) 3.3 3.3 5 or 7 5 or 7
STIP LTIP
Weighted average: 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share price (£) 10.55 8.81 8.81 6.84
Exercise price (£) — — — —
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.2% 2.4% 2.2%
Expected volatility 22% 22% 21% 22%
Risk-free interest rate 4.3% 4.48% 4.2% 4.42%
Expected life of option (years) 4 4 3-5* 3-5*
Expected share price volatility is based on historic volatility over the same period of time as the vesting period of
the option. The expected life of an option is based on historical data.
The LTIP will only vest in full if a TSR target is met. This is a market condition and the TSR performance criteria
has therefore been taken into account when calculating the fair value of the options granted under the LTIP.
These conditions have been incorporated into the Monte-Carlo Simulation model which is used to fair value the
TSR element of the scheme. 
* The LTIP vests in three equal tranches after 3, 4 and 5 years.
16. Related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with other Group
companies. 
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 113 17. Capital commitments
Amounts contracted for but not provided in the accounts amounted to £6 million (2005 — £5 million).
18. Other financial commitments
At 30 September 2006 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases for land
and buildings as set out below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating leases that expire:
within one year — —
within two to five years — —
in over five years 2 4
2 4
19. Events after the balance sheet date
On 20 November 2006 the Company entered into a binding agreement to sell its entire Scottish estate of 41 pubs
to Retail & Licensed Properties Limited for consideration of £32 million.
Notes to the Company Accounts
at 30 September 2006
114 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 114 Directors’ Responsibilities
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 115
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Practice. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing
those financial statements, the directors are required to:
n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
n make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
n state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
n prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 115 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 
30 September 2006 which comprise Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 19. These parent company
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 
30 September 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent
company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) as set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view,
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether the information given in the
parent company Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements. 
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
parent company financial statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review (incorporating the Business Review), the Corporate
Responsibility Report, Directors and Advisers and the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors
in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
116 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Enterprise Inns plc
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 116 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Enterprise Inns plc
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 117 117 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Opinion
In our opinion:
n the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2006; 
n the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
n the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Birmingham
21 November 2006
Note:
The maintenance and integrity of the Enterprise Inns plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work
carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially
presented on the website.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 117 Number of Shares
Range Shareholders % Held %
1–1,000 1,025 37.7 468,293 0.1
1,001–10,000 1,012 37.2 3,376,027 1.0
10,001–50,000 305 11.2 7,366,718 2.2
50,001–100,000 89 3.3 6,333,746 1.9
100,001–150,000 562.17,049,2192.1
150,001–500,000 116 4.3 31,775,270 9.6
500,001–1,000,000 57 2.1 41,504,336 12.5
1,000,001–5,000,000 45 1.7 95,838,165 28.9
5,000,001 and over 12 0.4 138,452,801 41.7
2,717 100.0 332,164,575 100.0
The total number of shares held includes 25,000,000 shares held in treasury and 6,870,253 shares held in
Employee Benefit Trusts.
118 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 118 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 119
Financial Calendar
2006
Preliminary announcement of annual results to 30 September 2006 21 November
Final dividend — ordinary shares: ex dividend date 27 December 
Final dividend — ordinary shares: record date 29 December
2007
Annual General Meeting 16 January
Final dividend — ordinary shares: payment date 22 January
Announcement of interim results 15 May
Interim dividend — ordinary shares: record date 8 June
Interim dividend — ordinary shares: payment date 4 July
Preliminary announcement of annual results to 30 September 2007 20 November
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 119 120 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Enquiries
The Company’s registrars, Computershare Investor
Services PLC, keep the Company’s register of
shareholders up to date, distribute statutory
documents and administer the payment of dividends.
If you have a query regarding your shareholding
please contact them direct by using the dedicated
telephone enquiry line 0870 889 4080.
You can also use the registrar’s website to check your
shareholding and maintain your records. Details can
be found at www.computershare.com/uk/investor/etp
Electronic Communications
The Company has introduced innovative ways of
communicating with shareholders electronically via
eTree, an environmental incentive programme. For
every shareholder who signs up to receive electronic
communications we will donate a sapling to the
Woodland Trust, the UK’s leading woodland
conservation charity. All saplings will be planted
through the Trust’s ‘Tree for All’ campaign, a national
tree planting and education programme, working with
schools and communities to plant 12 million trees. For
details and to register to receive future
communications electronically, please visit
www.etreeuk.com/enterpriseinns 
Share Dealing Service
The registrars also offer a share dealing service which
allows you to buy and sell the Company’s shares if
you are a UK resident. You can deal in your shares on
the internet or by phone. 
Log onto www.computershare.com/dealing/uk or call
0870 703 0084 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm,
Monday to Friday, for more information about this
service and details of the rates. 
Dividend Payments
Dividends can be paid direct to UK bank or building
society accounts using the BACS system so that your
dividend can be paid into your account on the same
day the Company makes payment. A tax voucher will
still be provided and sent to shareholders by post.
Shareholders who wish to arrange direct payment
using this method should telephone the registrars on
0870 889 4080. You can also register online or
download a printable mandate form at
www.computershare.com/uk/investor/etp
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 120 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 121
This notice is important and requires your immediate
attention. If you are in any doubt about the action
you should take, you should immediately consult
your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor,
accountant or other independent financial adviser
duly authorised under the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000. 
The 2007 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns
plc (the “Company”) will be held at the offices of the
Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West
Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a.m. on 16 January
2007 for the following purposes:
Ordinary resolutions
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary
resolutions:
1. To receive the directors’ report and the audited
accounts for the year ended 30 September 2006 and
the auditors’ report on the accounts.
2. To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the
year ended 30 September 2006.
3. To declare a final dividend of 18 pence per ordinary
share of the Company for the year ended 30
September 2006, which shall be payable to
shareholders who are on the register of members as
at the close of business on 29 December 2006. 
4. To reappoint Mr D A Harding as a director.
5. To reappoint Mr W S Townsend as a director.
6. To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the
Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
7. To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & Young
LLP’s remuneration as auditors of the Company. 
8. THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally
authorised (in substitution for all subsisting
authorities to the extent unused) to exercise all
powers of the Company to allot relevant securities
(within the meaning of section 80(2) of the
Companies Act 1985) up to an aggregate nominal
amount of £4,982,879. This authority shall expire
(unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the
Company in general meeting) 15 months after the
date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company in 2008, except that the Company may
before such expiry make an offer or agreement which
would or might require relevant securities to be
allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot
relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or
agreement as if the authority conferred by this
resolution had not expired.
9. THAT, conditional upon the admission of the new
ordinary shares of 2
1/ 2 pence each (as referred to
below) to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority
and to trading on London Stock Exchange plc’s
market for listed securities occurring by 8.00 a.m. on
17 January 2007 (or such other time and/or date as
the directors may in their absolute discretion
determine), each of the Company’s issued and
unissued existing ordinary shares of 5 pence each be
sub-divided into two new ordinary shares of 2
1/ 2
pence each.
Special resolutions
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
resolutions, which will be proposed as special
resolutions:
10. THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8, the
directors be and are empowered pursuant to section
95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity
securities (as defined in section 94(2) of that Act) for
cash pursuant to the general authority conferred on
them by resolution 8 and/or to sell equity securities
held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section
162D of that Act, in each case as if section 89(1) of
that Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale,
provided that this power shall be limited to:
(a) any such allotment and/or sale of equity
securities in connection with an issue or offer by
way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer,
open for acceptance for a period fixed by the
directors, to holders of ordinary shares (other than
the Company) on the register on any record date
fixed by the directors in proportion (as nearly as
may be) to the respective number of ordinary
shares deemed to be held by them, subject to
such exclusions or other arrangements as the
directors may deem necessary or expedient in
relation to fractional entitlements, legal or
practical problems arising in any overseas
territory, the requirements of any regulatory body
or stock exchange or any other matter
whatsoever; and
(b) any such allotment and/or sale, otherwise than
Notice of Annual General Meeting
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 121 122 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notice of Annual General Meeting
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, of equity
securities for cash having, in the case of relevant
shares (as defined in section 94(5) of that Act), an
aggregate nominal value, or, in the case of other
equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for
or convert into relevant shares having an
aggregate nominal value, not exceeding in
aggregate the sum of £810,006.
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed,
revoked or varied by the Company in general
meeting, at such time as the general authority
conferred on the directors by resolution 8 expires,
except that the Company may before such expiry
make an offer or agreement which would or might
require equity securities to be allotted or equity
securities held as treasury shares to be sold after
such expiry and the directors may allot equity
securities and/or sell equity securities held as
treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or
agreement as if the power conferred by this
resolution had not expired.
11. THAT the Company be and is generally and
unconditionally authorised to make market purchases
(as defined in section 163(3) of the Companies Act
1985) of:
(a) (if resolution 9 is passed) its ordinary shares of
2
1/ 2 pence each provided that: 
(i) the maximum number of ordinary shares that
may be acquired is 89,641,002; 
(ii) the minimum price per ordinary share that
may be paid for any such share (excluding
expenses) is 2
1/
2 pence; and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses)
which may be paid for each ordinary share
shall not be more than the higher of:
(A) 105% of the average of the market values
of such ordinary shares (as derived from
the Daily Official List of the London Stock
Exchange) for the five business days
immediately preceding the date on which
the purchase is made; and
(B) that stipulated by Article 5 (1) of the Buy-
back and Stabilisation Regulation (EC
2273/2003); or
(b) (if resolution 9 is not passed) its ordinary shares
of 5 pence each provided that: 
(i) the maximum number of ordinary shares that
may be acquired is 44,820,501; 
(ii) the minimum price per ordinary share that
may be paid for any such share (excluding
expenses) is 5 pence; and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses)
which may be paid for each ordinary share
shall not be more than the higher of:
(A) 105% of the average of the market values
of such ordinary shares (as derived from
the Daily Official List of the London Stock
Exchange) for the five business days
immediately preceding the date on which
the purchase is made; and
(B) that stipulated by Article 5 (1) of the Buy-
back and Stabilisation Regulation (EC
2273/2003).
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed,
revoked or varied by the Company in general
meeting, 15 months after the date of the passing of
this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008,
except that the Company may, at any time before the
expiry of this authority, enter into a contract or
contracts to purchase ordinary shares which would or
might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry
and purchase ordinary shares in accordance with such
contract as if the authority conferred by this
resolution had not expired. 
The directors believe that the proposals in
resolutions 1 to 11 are in the best interests of
shareholders as a whole and they unanimously
recommend that you vote in favour of all the
resolutions.
On behalf of the Board
D C George
Company Secretary
21 November 2006
Registered office:
3 Monkspath Hall Road
Solihull
West Midlands, B90 4SJ
Registered in England and Wales No. 2562808
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 122 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 123
Notice of Annual General Meeting
123 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notes
1. A shareholder of the Company who is entitled to
attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may
appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll,
vote instead of him. A proxy does not need to be a
shareholder of the Company.
2. A personalised form of proxy for use in connection
with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with
the document of which this notice forms part. If you
do not have a personalised form of proxy and believe
that you should, please contact the Company’s
registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on
0870 889 4080 or at Computershare Investor
Services PLC, P.O. Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater
Road, Bristol BS99 7NH. Completion and return of a
form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from
attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting.
3. To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must
complete: (a) a form of proxy, sign it and return it,
together with the power of attorney or other authority
(if any) under which it is signed, or a notarially certified
copy of such authority, to the Company’s registrars,
Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075,
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 3FA; or (b)
a CREST Proxy Instruction (as set out in paragraph 4
below); or (c) an online proxy appointment at
www.computershare.com/uk/voting/etp (you will need
your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number
printed on your personalised form of proxy), in each
case so that it is received no later than 11.00 a.m. on
14 January 2007.
4. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or
proxies through the CREST electronic proxy
appointment service may do so for the Annual
General Meeting and any adjournment(s) of the
meeting by using the procedures described in the
CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members or other
CREST sponsored members and those CREST
members who have appointed any voting service
provider(s) should refer to their CREST sponsor or
voting service provider(s), who will be able to take
the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made
using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate
CREST message (a "CREST Proxy Instruction") must
be properly authenticated in accordance with
CRESTCo Limited’s specifications and must contain
the information required for such instructions, as
described in the CREST Manual. The message,
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment
of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given
to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the
Company’s agent (ID 3RA50) by the latest time for
receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph 3
above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be
taken to be the time (as determined by the
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST
Applications Host) from which the Company’s agent
is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST
in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time
any change of instructions to proxies appointed
through CREST should be communicated to the
appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers should note that
CRESTCo Limited does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore
apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy
Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST
member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member
is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or
has appointed any voting service provider(s), to
procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service
provider(s) take(s)) such action as is necessary to
ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the
CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are
referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST
system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation
35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations
2001.
5. Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated
Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives
notice that only those shareholders included in the
register of members of the Company at 6.00 p.m. on
14 January 2007 or, if the meeting is adjourned, in
the register of members at 6.00 p.m. on the day
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 123 124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Notice of Annual General Meeting
which is two days before the day of any adjourned
meeting, will be entitled to attend and to vote at the
Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of
shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6.00
p.m. on 14 January 2007 or, if the meeting is
adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p.m. on
the day which is two days before any adjourned
meeting, will be disregarded in determining the
rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual
General Meeting.
6. Copies of the directors’ service contracts, the
directors’ remuneration report and the register of
directors’ interests are available for inspection at the
Company’s registered office during normal business
hours on any weekday (excluding Saturdays, Sundays
and public holidays) until the end of the Annual
General Meeting and will also be available for
inspection at the place of the Annual General
Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during
the Annual General Meeting.
7. If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your
ordinary shares in the Company, please forward this
document to the purchaser or transferee or to the
stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the
sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the
purchaser or transferee.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 125
The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held on Thursday, 16 January
2007 is set out on pages 121 to 124 of this
document. The following notes provide an
explanation as to why the resolutions set out in
the notice are to be put to shareholders.
Resolutions 1 to 8 are ordinary resolutions. These
resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the
votes cast for or against are in favour.
Resolution 1 — Laying of Accounts
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985
(the “Act”) to present to the shareholders of the
Company at a general meeting the reports of the
directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the
Company, for the year ended 30 September 2006. The
report of the directors and the audited accounts have
been approved by the directors, and the report of the
auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a
copy of each of these documents may be found in the
annual report and accounts, starting at page 1. 
Resolution 2 — Remuneration Report
The Act requires the Company to seek shareholder
approval for the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the
general meeting before which the Company’s annual
accounts are laid. The Directors’ Remuneration Report
is included in the annual report and accounts, starting
at page 28. If shareholders vote against the report the
directors will still be paid but the Remuneration
Committee will reconsider its policy. 
Resolution 3 – Declaration of a Final Dividend
An interim dividend of 9 pence (net) has already been
paid in respect of the 2005/2006 financial year. The
directors are recommending a final dividend of 18
pence (net) per ordinary share of 5 pence, payable on
22 January 2007 to holders on the register as at 6.00
p.m. on 29 December 2006. The final dividend will not
be paid without shareholder approval and its amount
may not exceed the amount recommended by the
directors.
For the avoidance of doubt, the final dividend will not
be paid to those persons that are holders of ordinary
shares of 2
1/
2 pence each at the date of payment in
respect of their shareholdings on the payment date. It
will be paid to those persons that were recorded on
the register at close of business on 29 December
2006 as holders of ordinary shares of 5 pence each in
respect of their respective holdings at close of
business on 29 December 2006. 
Resolutions 4 and 5 — Reappointment of 
Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend 
The Company’s articles of association require that any
director who was not appointed or reappointed at
either of the last two annual general meetings before
this meeting must retire, although they may offer
themselves for reappointment. Mr D A Harding and Mr
W S Townsend are retiring and seeking reappointment.
Biographical information for Mr D A Harding and Mr 
W S Townsend is shown on pages 13 to 14 of the
annual report and accounts. Details of why the Board
believes they should be re-elected are included in the
directors reporting in the annual report and accounts
starting at page 15.
Resolution 6 — Auditors’ appointment 
The Act requires that auditors be appointed at each
general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold
office until the next such meeting. The resolution
seeks shareholder approval for the reappointment of
Ernst & Young LLP. The Audit Committee keeps under
review the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors, further information on which can be
found in the annual report and accounts on page 24.
After considering relevant information the Audit
Committee recommended to the Board of directors
the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
Resolution 7 — Auditors’ remuneration
This resolution gives the directors the authority to
determine the remuneration of the auditors for the
audit work to be carried out by them in the next
financial year. The amount of the remuneration paid to
the auditors for the next financial year will be
disclosed in the next audited accounts of the Company. 
Resolution 8 — Authority to the directors to
allot shares
Under the Act the directors may only allot shares if
authorised by shareholders to do so. If passed, this
resolution will authorise the directors to allot and issue
new shares up to an aggregate nominal value of
£4,982,879 (up to 199,315,186 new ordinary shares of
Explanatory Notes to the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 125 126 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
Explanatory Notes to the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting
2
1/
2 pence each if resolution 9 is passed and up to
99,657,593 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each if
resolution 9 is not passed), which is equal to
approximately one-third (33.33%) of the issued share
capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares) as
at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable date
prior to the publication of the notice. The authority will
expire 15 months after the date of passing of the
resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting of the Company in 2008. 
Passing this resolution will continue the directors’
flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders,
when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares. The
directors currently have no intention of issuing new
shares.
As at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable
date prior to the publication of the notice, the
Company had 299,002,681 ordinary shares of 5 pence
each in issue and held 25,000,000 treasury shares,
which is equal to approximately 8.36% of the issued
share capital of the Company (excluding treasury
shares) as at that date.
Resolution 9 — Sub-division of ordinary share
capital
This resolution, if passed, will sub-divide each of the
ordinary shares of 5 pence in the Company into two
ordinary shares of 2
1/
2 pence. The directors believe
that having a larger number of shares with a lower
market value should attract and retain larger numbers
of private shareholders and ensure the continuing
liquidity of the Company’s shares.
The financial position of the Company will not be
affected by the sub-division of the ordinary shares. The
sub-division will not reduce the Company’s assets,
liabilities or shareholders’ funds. The Company’s
authorised and issued share capital will remain of the
same amount. Each shareholder will hold the same
percentage interest in the issued capital of the
Company immediately after the sub-division becomes
effective as that shareholder held before. The new
ordinary shares of 2
1/
2 pence each will in all respects
carry the same rights as the existing ordinary shares of
5 pence each.
If resolution 9 is passed, application will be made for
the admission of the new ordinary shares of 2
1/
2
pence each to the Official List of the UK Listing
Authority and for their admission to trading on the
market for listed securities of London Stock Exchange
plc. Dealings in the new ordinary shares are expected
to commence on 17 January 2007. At that time the
Company’s former ordinary shares of 5 pence each
will be removed from the Official List and no longer
traded.
For holdings in uncertificated form, it is expected that
the appropriate share accounts in CREST will be
credited with shareholders’ entitlements to the new
ordinary shares with effect from 17 January 2007. For
holdings in certificated form, new share certificates
will be sent to shareholders (at their own risk) as soon
as practicable after 17 January 2007. Certificates for
the former ordinary shares of 5 pence each will cease
to be valid upon the issue of the new share
certificates; they should be destroyed or, at the
Company’s request, delivered to the Company or as it
may direct.
In accordance with the rules of the Enterprise Inns
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme, Enterprise Inns
1995 Savings Related Share Option Scheme,
Enterprise Inns Incentive Plan 2002, Enterprise Inns
2005 Share Incentive Plan, Enterprise Inns 2005
Annual Bonus Plan, Enterprise Inns 2005 Employee
Share Option Scheme, Enterprise Inns 2005 Save as
you Earn Scheme and Enterprise Inns 2005 Long Term
Incentive Plan (together the “Share Schemes”), the
directors may, if appropriate, make adjustments to the
number of ordinary shares comprised in each
outstanding option and the price at which such
options are exercisable. In the case of HMRC approved
share options, such adjustments will be subject to
HMRC approval. Option holders will be informed of the
adjustments in accordance with the terms of the Share
Schemes. The remuneration committee is empowered
to adjust, in any manner, the number of ordinary
shares comprised in any incentive after it has vested
that it deems appropriate to counteract the effect of
the proposed sub-division on the value of the
incentive. The Company’s auditors must confirm in
writing that any such adjustment is fair and
reasonable before it is implemented.
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 126 Resolutions 10 and 11 are special resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed if not less than
75% of the votes cast for and against are in
favour.
Resolution 10 — Disapplication of statutory
pre-emption rights
If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first
offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to
their current holdings, in compliance with their
statutory pre-emption rights. If passed, this resolution
will authorise the directors to modify these rights to
deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that
may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or
issue. 
The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to
issue a limited number of shares for cash and/or sell
treasury shares without offering them to shareholders
first. The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount
of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the
issued share capital of the Company as at 1 December
2006, being the latest practicable date prior to the
publication of the notice (up to 32,400,268 new
ordinary shares of 2
1/ 2 pence each if resolution 9 is
passed and up to 16,200,134 new ordinary shares of 5
pence if resolution 9 is not passed). The authority will
expire at the same time as the authority to allot
shares given pursuant to resolution 8. 
The directors consider this authority necessary in order
to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as
they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the
resolution. 
Resolution 11 — Purchase of own shares by the
Company
If passed this resolution will grant the Company
authority for a period of up to 15 months after the
date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares
in the market. The resolution limits the number of
shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the
Company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury
shares) as at 1 December 2006, being the latest
practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
The price per ordinary share that the Company may
pay is set at a minimum amount (excluding expenses)
of 2
1/
2 pence per ordinary share (if resolution 9 is
passed) and 5 pence per ordinary share (if resolution 9
is not passed) and a maximum amount (excluding
expenses) of the higher of: (i) 5 per cent over the
average of the previous 5 days’ middle market prices
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent
trade and the highest current independent bid on the
trading venues where the purchase is carried out. This
authority will only be exercised if market conditions
make it advantageous to do so. 
On 21 November 2006 (the date of the notice) the
Company announced its intention to continue its
rolling share buy-back programme. The directors
intend to use the authority granted pursuant to this
resolution in pursuance of the share buy-back
programme. Further details of the share buy-back
programme are set out in the Chairman’s Statement
and the Chief Executive’s Review in the annual report
and accounts, starting at page 2.
The directors’ present intention is that shares
purchased pursuant to this authority (to the extent
statutory requirements are met) will be cancelled
immediately on purchase. Alternatively the shares
may be held in treasury (provided any treasury shares
held do not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued
share capital), sold for cash (provided Listing Rule
requirements are met) or transferred to an employee
share scheme. The effect of any cancellation would be
to reduce the number of shares in issue. For most
purposes, while held in treasury shares are treated as
if they have been cancelled (for example, they carry
no voting rights and do not rank for dividends). The
directors will only make purchases under this
authority and/or the rolling share buy-back
programme if they believe that to do so would result
in an increased earnings per share and would be in
the interests of shareholders generally.
As at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable
date prior to the publication of the notice, options
were outstanding over 4,057,974 ordinary shares of 5
pence each in the Company representing
approximately 1.36% of the issued share capital of the
Company (excluding treasury shares) at that date. If
the proposed market purchase authority were used in
full, shares over which options were outstanding
would, as at 1 December 2006, being the latest
practicable date prior to the publication of the notice,
represent approximately 1.60% of the Company’s
adjusted issued share capital (excluding treasury
shares) at that date. 
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 127
Explanatory Notes to the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 127 128 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 128 Master Robert Inn
Here is a selection of award-winning
Enterprise licensees who were 
recognised during the year for the quality of
their businesses and their outstanding
entrepreneurial skills:
Financial Highlights 1
Chairman’s Statement 2
Chief Executive’s Review (incorporating the business review) 3
Corporate Responsibility 9
Directors and Advisers 13
Directors’ Report 15
Corporate Governance 21
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
Group Income Statement 38
Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 39
Group Balance Sheet 40
Group Cash Flow Statement 41
Notes to the Group Accounts 42
Group Audit Report 90
Five Year Record 92
Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 93
Company Balance Sheet 94
Notes to the Company Accounts 95
Company Directors’ Responsibilities 115
Company Audit Report 116
Analysis of Shareholders 118
Financial Calendar 119
Shareholder Information 120
Notice of Annual General Meeting 121
Explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM 125
Contents
The Enterprise Inns Board
MASTER ROBERT INN, BURITON
WINNER – Rural pub of the Year 2006  Calor Gas
Pauline Davey and her partner Tim Smith took over the Master Robert
Inn in January 2005 and, working with the “Pub is the Hub” campaign,
have added to the business by transforming the function room into a
much valued post office and shop.
OLD WHITE BEARE, NORWOOD GREEN, WEST YORKSHIRE
WINNER – Village Pub of the Year 2006 Morning Advertiser
Pub Awards
Since taking over this pub last summer, Chris and Nick Green have
restored a neglected sixteenth Century pub to its former glory with
a major refurbishment. Following the introduction of new staff and a
successful PR campaign, the pub now attracts destination diners
whilst remaining at the heart of the village.
The Pack Horse
Old White Beare
YE OLD SUN INN, COLTON, NORTH YORKSHIRE 
WINNER — Pub Food innovation of the year 2006  
The Publican Food Awards
Since Ashley and Kelly McCarthy‘s arrival at the pub two
years ago, Ye Old Sun’s status has evolved from a good-
food venue into innovative gastropub. Head chef Ashley
grows his own range of herbs and vegetables to provide a
constant supply of fresh kitchen ingredients.  In addition,
an on-site delicatessen, with fresh bread baked daily, has
proved a major bonus for local residents.
Ye Old Sun Inn
INN ON THE GREEN, BRISTOL
WINNER – Bristol Pub of the Year 2006  CAMRA
Oliver Bainbridge’s transformation of this pub began in 2003. As well
as offering a distinctly upmarket food menu, the pub currently serves
a range of more than 10 different real ales and attracts a wide range
of clientele.
Inn on the Green
LION, TEDDINGTON
WINNER – London Pub of the Year CAMRA
Cask ale is the lifeblood of the Lion, where Don Witts and
Myfawny Williams maintain exceptional quality standards whilst
constantly reviewing and updating their mix of beer styles and
brands.
The Lion
THE PACK HORSE, HAYFIELD, DERBYSHIRE
WINNER – Best Pub 2006 Northern Hospitality Awards
REGIONAL WINNER – Gastro Pub of the Year 2006
Morning Advertiser Pub Awards
The Pack Horse was taken over by Suzy Turner and Andy Williams in
2003. After careful research and a major investment, the pub is now
recognised and respected throughout the region for the quality of its
food offer.
Left to right: Hubert Reid, Chairman 
David George, Chief Financial Officer 
Susan Murray, Non-executive director 
Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive 
David Harding, Non-executive director 
Simon Townsend, Chief Operating Officer 
Jo Stewart, Non-executive director
Thorverton Arms
THORVERTON ARMS, EXETER
WINNER – Newcomer of
the year award 2006
The Publican Food Awards
The Thorverton Arms dates back to
1542, when it first opened as a
coaching inn. Garth and Melissa
Pearse offer an extensive range of
locally sourced products: simple
fresh home-made food is presented
in a comfortable and relaxed
atmosphere and offered at
affordable prices. 
THE PICCADILLY, CAERPHILLY, MID GLAMORGAN
WINNER – Tenanted or leasehold Pub of the Year
Morning Advertiser Pub Awards
Mark Parry and Tracy Hammond’s business plan transformed
a basic local pub into a stylish venue, including a grand
dining room overlooking Caerphilly Castle. They have
attracted a new set of customers whilst retaining their
place in the community.
The Piccadilly
Front cover pictures (left to right)
World’s End, Ecton
World’s End, Ecton
Plough, Harborne
Back cover pictures (left to right)
Bell, Welford-on-Avon
English lounge, Manchester
English lounge, Manchester
The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Enterprise Inns plc
3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ
Tel: +44 (0)121 733 7700
Fax: +44 (0)121 733 6447
www.enterpriseinns.com
Enterprise Inns plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
