 23069.04    9 December 2013 3:29 PM    Proof 6
Enterprise Inns plc
Annual Report for the year  
ended 30 September 2013
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6.indd   3 09/12/2013   17:25:34 23069.04    9 December 2013 3:29 PM    Proof 6
Pictured on front cover: 
 ■ The Old Sessions House,  
Knutsford 
 ■ The Montgomery, Eastham 
 ■ The Anchor Inn, Wingham
Pictured on back cover: 
 ■ Brownlee Arms, Horsforth
 ■ The White Lion, Portishead 
 ■ The Lock and Quay, Chorley
Strategic Report
page
Highlights 02
Chairman’s Statement 03
Strategic Review 04
Award Winners 07
Chief Executive’s Review 08
Financial Review 18
Corporate Social Responsibility 20
Risks and Uncertainties 25
Pubs with character
Directors’ Report
page
Directors’ Report 30
Board of Directors 34
Governance Report 35
Audit Committee Report 39
Nomination Committee Report 44
Directors’ Remuneration Report 45
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Relation  
to the Group and Company Financial Statements
62
The heart of the community
Accounts
page
Group Income Statement 63
Statements of Comprehensive Income 64
Balance Sheets 65
Statements of Changes in Equity 66
Cash Flow Statements 68
Notes to the Accounts 69
Independent Auditor’s Report 112
Always a warm welcome
Shareholder Information
page
Five Y ear Record 115
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders 116
Shareholder Information 117
Notice of Annual General Meeting 119
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual  
General Meeting
123
Fine products, friendly surroundings
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6.indd   4 09/12/2013   17:25:40 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
Mission statement
“To be the leading specialist operator of 
leased and tenanted pubs in the UK. ”
The Old Sessions House, Knutsford
For more information go to our website 
enterpriseinns.com
Read about Our Strategy 
on page 04
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
01 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   1 10/12/2013   14:19:24 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
Financial Highlights
 ■ Improving trend in like-for-like net income 
with growth of 0.6% in the final quarter and a 
decline of 2.9% for the full year 
 ■ EBITDA* before exceptional items £313 million 
(2012: £340 million) primarily reflecting impact 
of the disposal programme
 ■ Focus on operational activities to support 
Publican profitability with £62 million of capital 
investment across the estate during the year
 ■ Strong operational cash generation combined 
with £150 million net proceeds from disposal 
programme has reduced net debt by  
£216 million to £2.5 billion (2012: £2.7 billion)
 ■ Unsecured convertible bond issued, raising 
£97 million, reducing bank debt, net of cash, to 
£41 million (2012: £310 million) 
 ■ Like-for-like net income growth has been 
sustained in the first seven weeks of the 
current financial year
Statutory Results
 ■ Profit before tax and exceptional items £121 
million (2012: £137 million)
 ■ Adjusted earnings per share
#
 19.0p (2012: 
20.5p)
 ■ Loss after tax of £4 million (2012: profit  
£44 million) arising after net exceptional 
charges of £99 million (2012: £58 million) 
principally relating to property matters
*   Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  
amortisation
#
  Excludes exceptional items
Read Our Financial Review
on page 18
Net cash flows from operating activities
£291m
2011 £326m
2012 £296m
2013 £291m
Net debt
£2.5bn
2011 £3.0bn
2012 £2.7bn
2013 £2.5bn
Profit before tax and exceptional Items
£121m
2011 £157m
2012 £137m
2013 £121m
Adjusted earnings per share
19.0p
2011 23.4p
2012 20.5p
2013 19.0p
Highlights
02 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   2 10/12/2013   14:19:25 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
Results
Profit before tax and exceptional items for the year was 
£121 million, compared to £137 million in the previous 
year. Our like-for-like net income for the year declined 
by 2.9% although trading performance improved in 
the final quarter with growth of 0.6% in like-for-like net 
income. This performance was against the background 
of a particularly difficult trading environment for many of 
our Publicans; a fragile economic climate coupled with 
inclement weather (the coldest spring for fifty years) and 
tough comparatives in the previous year. However, our 
commercial and operational teams successfully deployed 
a number of new initiatives for our Publicans to improve 
their retail offers to customers and we expect more of 
these in the coming years. 
I am pleased to report good progress on the Company’ s debt 
and balance sheet issues. The issuance of an unsecured 
convertible bond on 10 September 2013 generated  
£97 million of gross proceeds and has helped to reduce 
the bank debt, net of cash, to only £41 million. This leaves 
us with limited bank amortisation requirements for the 
future and will enable us to limit further asset disposals 
to a level required to fund our investment ambitions, at 
around £60 million per annum. With disposal proceeds 
matching capital investment, we would expect the 
Company’s future EBITDA performance to more closely 
track our like-for-like net income performance. 
Continued focus on cash generation has reduced total debt 
by a further £216 million, with total net debt at the year 
end now £2.5 billion. Cash generation from the business 
was supported during the year by proceeds of £150 million 
from the disposal of primarily underperforming pubs.
Dividend
The Board continues to believe it is not appropriate to 
resume the payment of dividends at this time. The current 
strategy of utilising available cash flow to reduce debt is 
the most effective way to achieve long-term transfer of 
value to our shareholders. 
Board of directors
We announced in November 2013 that Ted Tuppen will  
retire from the Board on 6 February 2014, after over 
20 years of service as Chief Executive. Ted founded 
Enterprise in 1991 and has throughout been a Chief 
Executive of unrivalled leadership, energy and charisma. 
His contribution to the Company’s success cannot 
be overestimated; in 2006 he was awarded a CBE 
for services to the hospitality industry and he has 
successfully shaped and steered the business from its 
inception, through both good times and, more recently, 
during the more challenging economic and recessionary 
climate. This year’s results allow Ted to retire leaving the 
business in good shape for the future and with huge 
thanks from the Board and our employees. We wish him 
well for the future.
We also announced the appointment of Simon 
Townsend as Chief Executive, to take effect at the time 
of Ted’s retirement at our AGM, 6 February 2014. Simon 
joined Enterprise in 1999 and has served the business 
successfully as Chief Operating Officer since 2006. The 
Board is confident that Simon is the right person to lead 
the Company into its next phase. 
We are also pleased to have welcomed Peter Baguley as 
a non-executive director. He was appointed on 31 January 
2013, replacing David Harding, who served the Board so 
well during his nine years tenure. Peter brings to the Board 
a particular property expertise and is already providing 
excellent advice and support to our property teams. 
David Maloney, a non-executive director since 2008, and 
currently Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeded 
David Harding as Senior Independent Director in January. 
Employees and Publicans
Once again, our engaged and hard-working colleagues 
and Publicans are critical to our success. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank them all for their fine efforts 
and resilience during the past year.
Outlook
After a difficult start, we ended the 2013 financial year 
with an improving trend in our trading performance. 
Current and foreseeable market conditions remain 
volatile and challenging, economic confidence is returning 
but consumer spending remains restrained, with cost 
inflation exceeding income growth. To have delivered like-
for-like net income growth in such conditions in our final 
quarter is pleasing and to have continued this into the first 
seven weeks of the current financial year is encouraging. 
We are confident that the improving quality of our pub 
estate, the innovation and resilience of our Publicans, 
the dedication of our team and proactive actions we are 
taking provide the appropriate foundations for delivering 
sustainable net income growth which will generate 
significant cash flows and value for shareholders.
R M Walker 
Chairman 
18 November 2013
Chairman’s Statement
“I am pleased to present our results for the financial year ended  
30 September 2013. The Company has made solid progress on a  
number of fronts, and is now well positioned to achieve stability in both 
like-for-like net income performance and in the size of the estate. ”
Robert Walker 
Chairman
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
03 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   3 10/12/2013   14:19:25 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Enterprise Inns plc (Enterprise) operates a leased and 
tenanted pub model within an overall market of some 
57,000 pubs in the UK. As highlighted in the diagram 
below, we own the pub and the tenant or lessee, who we 
call the Publican, is responsible for the management of 
the pub and usually contracts to purchase some or all of 
their drinks products from us. This form of agreement is 
often referred to as a tied agreement. 
The tied leased and tenanted pub sector was not invented 
by the pub companies. It has been around for decades 
offering a lower cost, lower risk business opportunity 
to aspiring Publicans working in partnership with the 
resources of a major organisation, which were historically 
breweries. The tied business model changed in the late 
1980s because the Government believed consumer choice 
was limited by the link to breweries, forcing the break-up 
of the brewers’ estates and led to the formation of the 
independent pub companies. All of the benefits of a lower 
cost, lower risk business opportunity continued under the 
pub companies. We at Enterprise are passionate about 
our pubs and their role in the communities they serve and 
the benefits of the tied pub model. 
Strategic Review
Enterprise
Mutual interest in
a successful pub
Beer supplies
Resources and expertise
Regular ﬁxed income Dry rent (lower rental)
Variable income (Higher sales = Higher income) Wet rent based on sales
Lease agreement
SCORFA*
Training and business support
Stability and low risk opportunity
Publican
Property 
Owner
Business 
Owner
* Originally deﬁned by the EU Commission, “Special Commercial or Financial Advantage” reﬂects countervailing beneﬁts 
such as management support and other services and cost savings provided by Enterprise.
“Enterprise is the largest operator of leased and tenanted pubs in the 
UK, with 5,493 trading pubs under ownership at year end. Our tied 
model is designed to align both the Company and our Publicans into 
sharing the benefits of success, since it is in both our interests to drive 
the sales and income of each pub. Our commercial teams aim to 
deliver cost saving and business building opportunities to our Publicans, 
our property teams manage and invest in the fabric of the estate, and 
our operational teams work to recruit and retain the best Publicans, 
assisting them to deliver the best retail offer to local pub customers. ”
Robert Walker 
Chairman
04 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   4 10/12/2013   14:19:25 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
We and our Publicans have a shared interest in the pub 
being successful. In the equilibrium of trade, exactly in 
line with the expectations of both parties, the wet and 
dry rents will together represent a fair return and payment 
for the use of the property. If the Publican struggles and 
less beer is sold, we, the landlord, will receive less wet-
rent and the Publican will enjoy a lower effective rent. If 
everyone works together to drive beer sales, then both 
parties will be happy as a result of higher profits. 
As a major buyer of beer, the pub company profits from 
the wholesaler margin, that element of cost saving which 
would not be available to an individual Publican. It is this 
profit which allows us to offer to our Publicans SCORFA 
benefits (Special Commercial or Financial Advantage), 
such as investment, training, business support and other 
business building and cost saving opportunities. 
A major success of the model is the increase in Publicans’ 
freedom of choice from a vast range of products. 
Enterprise currently offers over 200 brands available from 
a full range of brewers from the international to the local. 
We have helped SIBA build its Direct Delivery Scheme 
and in the Enterprise estate alone, cask ale sales have 
increased from around 14% of total beer sales in 2002 
to around 20% today. Cask ale has gone from strength 
to strength and is one of the few areas of growing beer 
volumes in the UK.
“Enterprise puts Publicans at the  
heart of everything it does.”
Publican
Operations
PUBLICAN
Credit control, lettings admin,
compliance, FP & A
Property
Recruitment and training, telesales
marketing, gaming, customer services
procurement, retail standards
Group
Finance, IT & Legal
OUR MARKET
57,000
*
pubs in the UK
27,000
*
leased and 
tenanted pubs
5,493
Enterprise
†
* Estimated per the CGA Strategy Outlet Index at March 2013.
†
 Enterprise trading pubs as at 30 September 2013.
Over the past six years the market has changed 
considerably, with the profitability of pubs significantly 
impacted by the smoking ban and the global recession 
as well as other factors such as the continuing demise 
of the high street, low alcohol prices in supermarkets 
and the financial effect of ever increasing business 
taxes, utility costs and other overheads. Furthermore, 
consumers consistently raise their expectations and 
pubs have always had to offer a better experience than 
staying at home. Nevertheless, great Publicans who are 
well qualified, committed, resourceful and supported by 
their pub companies, are still able to make successful 
businesses built around the quality of what they have to 
offer. 
Throughout this period, Enterprise has worked hard at 
preserving the integrity of the model, through significant 
support for its Publicans, investment in the estate to 
maintain its quality, prudent management of its capital 
structure and an investment in overhead to improve 
services to our Publicans. Enterprise therefore puts 
Publicans at the heart of everything we do to help support 
and drive their businesses forward.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
05 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   5 10/12/2013   14:19:25 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
OUR STRATEGY
Given the nature of the pub market and dynamics of the 
business model outlined above, Enterprise has a clear 
strategic objective of returning the business to EBITDA 
growth. This is, and will remain, a challenging objective 
to achieve given the economic environment, the national 
decline in beer consumption, the consequent rate of 
business failure in pubs and Publican change. However, 
we believe EBITDA growth can be achieved through the 
delivery of sustainable like-for-like net income growth 
from our estate which will come from effective execution 
of our pub operations and property management. 
Whilst we strive to deliver our growth strategy we will 
continue to ensure that our capital structure evolves to 
offer the flexibility and certainty necessary to provide the 
foundations for business growth. 
Pub operations
The pub operations strategy is dedicated to creating the 
right environment for Publicans to build successful and 
sustainable businesses, with four key areas of focus, 
as outlined in the diagram below. The sustainability of 
Enterprise Publicans relies on quality Publicans wanting 
to join Enterprise, having agreements which support their 
business and above all, a level of consistently brilliant 
service delivered to Publicans that allows them to focus 
on managing their pub, its customers and its condition.
Effective execution relies upon our Enterprise team, 
who have the essential skills necessary to deliver quality 
service to our Publicans. We work hard to help Publicans 
build their business through locally based operational and 
property teams, focused on partnering the Publican and 
offering locally tailored support. 
We believe that employees who are fully engaged in our 
business, goals, values and strategy will ultimately deliver 
a better service and that our values define what we stand 
for and how we behave with all our stakeholders, be they 
customers, suppliers, investors or the communities in 
which we operate. These values are outlined on page 21 . 
Property management
Effective investment in and maintenance of our assets is 
essential to the on-going success of the business. Over 
the past few years, while we have been undertaking a 
disposal programme to enhance the quality of the estate 
and generate cash to assist in managing the capital 
structure, specifically to reduce our exposure to bank 
debt, we also recognised the need to actively manage 
all the assets in the estate and ensure a significant level 
of capital investment. This includes encouraging and 
assisting Publicans to invest in their properties, either in 
line with their repairing obligations under their agreements 
or additional investment on growth focused capital 
expenditure. We have developed an effective property 
team to identify a plan for each of our assets and respond 
to the operational team and Publicans by assessing and 
investing the appropriate capital in the estate.
Capital structure
Given the general economic climate and the fundamental 
shift in the global capital markets over the past six years, 
Enterprise has been focused on ensuring that it operates 
with an efficient and manageable capital structure. This is 
important to ensure long-term success for all of our key 
stakeholders: be they Publicans, employees, shareholders, 
bondholders or suppliers. It is also essential that the 
Group operates within the financial covenants required 
by our debt instruments, which requires a clear financing 
strategy to provide the business with sufficient resources 
and flexibility to invest in and grow the business. Part of 
this strategy includes the consideration of new funding 
sources as appropriate. 
Strategic Review
Quality 
of estate 
Invest £180m in 3 years
Attract and 
retain the right 
Publicans
Refresh the Enterprise offer
Agreement evolution
Local 
support
Invest in operational resources
Geographic differentiation
2
Pubs are at the heart of 
our communities
Intensive focus on 
property condition
Selling 
smarter
Grow pub sales
Grow pub proﬁt
Grow together with Publicans
Service
06 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   6 10/12/2013   14:19:26 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
Award Winners
Zoe Rodgers has managed pubs in Brighton for 
several years and has a catering background, but 
this is the first outlet she has run on her own. 
The George Payne was a tired pub called the 
Kendall Arms when Zoe took it on last May. She 
renamed the pub the George Payne, after one of 
the men who developed the area in which the 
pub is located. A £50,000 refurbishment was 
undertaken to turn the site into a welcoming, 
female-friendly, and family-focused community 
pub, which has an eclectic, homely feel. Zoe has 
positioned the George Payne at the heart of the 
community, with family-focused events helping 
to establish the pub’s reputation as a fantastic 
community outlet. Planning permission has been 
granted for nine en-suite bedrooms, which Zoe 
aims to open early next year. 
Kevin and Michelle Abbott are enjoying their 
new career as Publicans and appear completely 
undaunted by this new challenge. Both of them 
have customer service backgrounds and it 
shows. Turnover has vastly improved since the 
Abbotts took over the The Anchor Inn, and Kevin 
appears to be on top of all the key metrics, as you 
would expect from a former banker. The pub is 
in great condition, thanks to some serious elbow 
grease and smart prioritisation of investments. 
Innovations have been cleverly targeted to 
attract the broadest possible customer base. 
The pub is establishing itself as an arts centre, 
with regular mass-appeal music and fund-raising 
events. Unused space is being brought back into 
clever usage, and money is being spent wisely, 
not indiscriminately. The outside area is being 
transformed from a wilderness into an impressive 
pub garden with pétanque and bat & trap courts.
At the end of 2006, Jo and James Lowe gave up 
their careers in restaurants and hotels and sold 
everything to move to Somerset with their young 
family to run the Maypole Inn. The Lowes have 
opened up the Maypole to the local community 
and made locals feel that it’s really their pub. 
There’s always something going on to draw 
in more custom, and the Maypole is always 
giving something back, raising thousands of 
pounds for charity every year. It hosts wedding 
receptions and parties as well as being home to 
a huge number of clubs. Initiatives have included 
networking events for business women, a 
healthy eating club, a discount card for regulars, 
a bartering system for local produce, an outdoor 
pizza oven, takeaway food, a fish and chip quiz 
night, meet the brewer nights and live music, 
including an annual festival.
Great British Pub
Awards 2013 
Best Newcomer
Kevin & Michelle Abbott of the  
Anchor Inn, Wingham
Great British Pub
Awards 2013 
Best Turnaround Pub
Zoe Rodgers of the George Payne, 
Hove
Great British Pub
Awards 2013 
Best Community Pub
Jo & James Lowe of the Maypole 
Inn, Thurloxton, pictured with awards 
presenter Greg Davies
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
07 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   7 10/12/2013   14:19:40 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
I am pleased to report our full year results for the year 
ended 30 September 2013, during which time we 
have delivered EBITDA before exceptional items of  
£313 million. We have made good progress securing our 
financial flexibility and have seen an improving trend in 
performance during the year which has culminated in the 
delivery of like-for-like net income growth of 0.6% in the 
final quarter.
Like-for-like net income for the total estate for the full year 
was down by 2.9%. Within the year there has been steady 
improvement in the underlying trading performance. In the 
first half of the year we reported a 4.2% decline in total 
estate like-for-like net income as trading was adversely 
impacted by heavy snow in January and the coldest March 
for many years. In addition, the cessation of trading on  
1 October 2012 of Waverley, our wines and spirits 
distributor, adversely impacted the business as we were 
unable to supply these products to Publicans, resulting in 
a direct loss of nearly £2 million of trading income. We now 
have a new two year distribution agreement for wines and 
spirits which has been operational throughout the second 
half and has enabled us to return to a normalised level of 
trading for these categories of products. 
The second half of the financial year has delivered a 1 .8% 
decline in like-for-like net income with the third quarter 
facing tough comparatives against the prior year due to 
the timing of Easter, a positive impact from the Euro 2012 
football championship and the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee 
celebrations. In the final quarter of our year we received 
some benefit from a hot spell of weather in July but were 
also adversely impacted in the final weeks of the year 
by disruption caused to beer deliveries by the industrial 
action of employees of KNDL, our national distributor. 
Against this backdrop we were pleased to achieve growth 
of 0.6% in total estate like-for-like net income in the final 
quarter. 
While there have been two events disrupting our supply 
chain that have had some financial impact during the 
year, it is pleasing that contingency plans and intense 
management actions have minimised the impact to the 
business.
Debt reduction remained a core element of our strategy 
during the year, driving the accelerated disposal 
programme which generated £150 million of net disposal 
proceeds. In addition, in September 2013, we successfully 
issued an unsecured, seven year convertible bond for 
gross proceeds of £97 million, with the proceeds used to 
reduce existing bank debt. The convertible bond issuance 
represents a new source of financing for the business 
which, with the proceeds from our accelerated disposal 
programme, has removed the requirement for significant 
bank amortisation in the next few years and extended 
our debt maturity profile. We now have a manageable 
amortisation profile which means we are able to return 
to a normalised level of asset disposals with the intention 
of only disposing of underperforming assets each year 
and reinvesting the c.£60 million of proceeds from such 
disposals to fund annual investment in the retained 
estate. Realising proceeds from asset disposals with very 
low yields and using those proceeds to generate more 
significant returns will provide incremental income to the 
business which will assist in the delivery of sustainable 
like-for-like net income growth. 
We have a manageable and tax efficient capital structure 
comprising predominantly long-term debt, consistent  
with the long-term nature of our freehold assets. Our 
strong cash generation from operations combined with 
the successful disposal programme has enabled us 
to reduce total net debt from £2.7 billion to £2.5 billion 
during the year. The Board currently believes that the 
best use of available cash is to continue to reduce debt 
to achieve a transfer of value to shareholders and as such 
will not resume the payment of dividends at this time. 
During the year Vince Cable, Secretary of State for 
Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) initiated a further 
consultation into the operations of the tied pub sector. 
While we await the findings of the consultation, we 
remain firmly of the view that any statutory intervention 
would be unnecessary, disproportionate, without 
reasonable foundation and potentially subject to multiple 
legal challenges. Taxes suffered by pubs increased by 
17% over the five years to September 2013, and now 
account for around £1 in every £3 taken across the bar. 
Over the same five years we worked hard to improve our 
pubs, investing in the region of £300 million in the fabric 
of the estate whilst seeing our average net income per 
pub fall by 12% as we have transferred significant value 
to our Publicans through reduced rents and increased 
discounts.
Chief Executive’s Review
08 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   8 10/12/2013   14:19:42 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
TRADING REVIEW
Total estate like-for-like net income - 
performance
Following a difficult start, like-for-like net income trends 
have improved throughout the year with the final 
quarter achieving growth of 0.6%. The year began with 
challenging conditions resulting in like-for-like net income 
decline of 4.2% in the first half, which then improved to 
a decline of 1.8% in the second half, producing a full year 
decline of 2.9%.
Total estate like-for-like net income - 
geography
Our estate in the South, representing 42% of total net 
income, contracted by 1.9% as the weaker trade across 
the country was partially offset by the effects of a stronger 
London economy. The agenda for our southern team is a 
growth strategy, prioritising return generating investment 
opportunities and ensuring our Publican selection process 
leads to optimal performance. In the North and the 
Midlands our teams face a different set of challenges. 
Whilst our business building activities apply across all 
geographic regions a much greater proportion of our 
Publican support is focused on the North and Midlands 
where economic pressures provide difficult conditions 
for Publicans and their customers. Improvements in 
trading performance have been experienced across all 
geographies in the final quarter of the year, with the 
South returning to net income like-for-like growth. 
 
Location
No. of pubs at 
30 Sept 
2013
Net income*
FY13
£m
% of total net 
income
FY13
Net income
FY12
£m
Net income 
change
FY13
%
North 1,640 104 28 108 (3.7)
Midlands 1,773 112 30 116 (3.4)
South 2,080 155 42 158 (1 .9) 
T otal 5,493 371 100 382 (2.9)
*  Net income represents like-for-like pub level gross profits, stated before property costs of £28 million, unallocated central costs of 
£6 million and excluding £8 million of net income relating to pubs that have been disposed of or non-licensed premises.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
09 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   9 10/12/2013   14:19:45 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - SUSTAINABLE 
INCOME GROWTH
In order to secure our objective of sustainable growth in 
like-for-like net income across the estate, our operational 
teams continue to focus on four key differentiating 
activities: enhancing the quality of the estate; attracting 
and retaining the right Publicans; selling in smarter ways 
to optimise income; and providing exceptional local 
support. 
Enhancing the quality of the estate 
The quality of our pub estate is critical to the success of 
our business, attracting the best Publicans and providing 
a platform for them to invest in the long-term profitability 
of their business. Property condition is a shared 
responsibility between ourselves and our Publicans. We 
have continued to invest in enhancing the quality of the 
estate with £62 million of capital investment during the 
year. This investment is often made working alongside 
our Publicans, who will additionally invest in facilities  
and fixtures and fittings, to reposition the pub for  
long-term growth. 
During the current year, some 32% of our capital 
investment has been directed at growth-driving 
initiatives up from the 23% achieved in the prior year. 
Our expectation is that we will move this proportion 
toward 60% of total capital investment over the next 
three years. Growth orientated capital investment 
during the current year ranged from some 15 individual  
large-scale projects of over £100,000, where we 
are delivering immediate returns on investment 
of approximately 15%, to our exterior decorations 
programme, where we invested in over 1,000 of our pubs 
at an average cost of £10,000 to improve the kerb appeal of 
our pubs. An additional benefit of the exterior decorations 
programme is that it encourages investment from the 
Publicans on interior decorations or enhancements to 
their offer to complement the exterior improvements.
We plan to invest £60 million a year for the foreseeable 
future to further improve the quality of our estate. This 
investment will not only enhance our income but will also 
represent a significant contribution toward supporting 
Publican profitability and is expected to assist with a 
reduction in Publican churn arising from business failures. 
Chief Executive’s Review
The White Lion
Portishead
Given the history of the site, it was important to improve the condition of the closed pub with a significant capital 
investment. It is one of only two known “tidal” mills, was mentioned in the Domesday Book and had been converted 
into an Inn back in the 1700s. 
With the increased potential market of the new-build marina area this site occupies a prominent position in Portishead 
to bridge between the old and the new areas. After careful consideration of the options, and with the partnership of a 
quality Publican, we developed a plan for a complete refurbishment to trade under the Mezzé concept. The site needed 
extensive re-modelling internally to maximize the trading area and bring in a new kitchen, as well as developing the 
external areas to capitalise on the growth in “al fresco dining and drinking” . 
After
Before
10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   10 10/12/2013   14:19:46 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
The Montgomery
Eastham
The Milk House
Sissinghurst
Brownlee Arms
Horsforth
Previously known as the Stanley Arms, this pub had been closed 
following a decline in the business. Taking a cluster strategy to 
our pubs in the area and given its size and location, we believed 
that the pub had the correct demographics for a good food offer, 
which would then complement our other pubs in the area. Once 
we had identified suitable Publicans to deliver our vision for the 
pub, we initiated a joint investment scheme requiring the total 
refurbishment of the trading areas, improving the layout and 
providing the opportunity for a higher quality food offer. This pub 
is now a highly successful operation, with a significant increase 
in trade.
Being the only pub in the village, our local team reviewed what 
would suit the pub (formerly known as The Bull) as well as the  
community, opting for a high end local with good quality food, 
underpinned by a healthy wet trade. This involved a collaboration 
with the new Publicans on the refurbishment of all trade areas, 
merging the two bars into one, and the creation of four boutique 
letting rooms to meet local demand for accommodation.  
The new Publicans, Dane and Sarah Allchorne, have quickly 
established a reputation for high quality food, with the beautifully 
refurbished letting rooms regularly used.
Formerly known as the Grey Horse, and in a poor state of 
repair, this site had been trading as a wet led operation with 
sub-optimal levels of trade for many years. Hand-in-hand with 
a new experienced Publican we commenced a programme 
to reposition the pub as a warm and welcoming mid-market 
drinking and dining experience. Developing the layout with a high 
quality refurbishment, we created a relaxed and comfortable 
environment, with better facilities to allow the introduction of 
the food offer whilst still retaining a dedicated drinking area.
Renamed after the famous Brownlee brothers, the Olympic  
triathletes from the area, the pub has been a great success since 
it has re-opened.
Before
Before
Before
After
After
After
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
11 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   11 10/12/2013   14:19:50 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Attracting and retaining the right 
Publicans to the Enterprise offer
Rental income is a material component of our net income 
and therefore rental income stability is critical for like-for-
like net income growth. We have seen some encouraging 
signs of stability, with rent reviews in the year reducing 
annualised rents, on average, by only 0.3%. In addition 
we are working to align rents to current market conditions 
with some 94% of pubs having a rent review or renewal 
over the past five years. 
While a change of Publican can be the catalyst for 
revitalising the prospects of a pub, reducing the instances 
of business failure is one of our key strategies to maintain 
and grow our like-for-like performance as such instances 
have the most significant impact upon our rental income. 
We are pleased with the progress we have made with 
reducing the level of business failure from the peak of 972 
in the extremely difficult trading environment of 2008/09 
to 579 in the current financial year and our objective is to 
deliver further improvement over the coming years.
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Number of business failures
■  Agreement failures  ■  Agreement surrenders
Decreasing rates of business failure
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
9.4% 13.1% 12.8%
% of closing estate
12.1% 12.4% 10.5%
730
340
390
539
390
374
291
257
433
485
388
443
322
972
875
762
734
579
Even the best Publicans may need our support to tackle 
the multiple challenges of weak consumer confidence, 
increased overhead costs, the burden of punitive increases 
in taxation and the high cost of regulation. We therefore 
continue to provide temporary concessions and support 
to Publicans, where considered appropriate, and are 
pleased to have seen this stabilise at a cost of £6 million, 
which is in line with the prior year. We are targeting this 
concessionary support more toward business-building 
activities that will enhance footfall and income for the 
Publican rather than purely defensive financial support. 
In addition, one of the means of reducing the instances 
of Publican change has been the use of our Beacon 
“managed tenancy” agreements, which has delivered 
a great foundation for our Beacon Publicans to grow 
successful businesses in a challenging marketplace. 
Under the Beacon model, we have a much closer 
relationship with the Publican and we get more involved 
with their operational decisions, retail offerings and 
retail standards. During the course of the year, we have 
reviewed our Beacon estate and have identified a number 
of sites that have traded successfully which could be 
returned to a normal tenancy agreement. We have also 
identified sites where, despite our best efforts, the trade 
from the pub was insufficient to support our continued 
involvement resulting in their disposal. At the financial 
year end we had 185 trading Beacon pubs, the majority 
of which have traded as Beacons for over twelve months 
and it is pleasing to report that these pubs increased their 
like-for-like net income by 8% in the year. 
Through Beacon we have seen evidence that our increased 
involvement in the operation of a pub can assist its trading 
income and its potential and this has encouraged us to 
assess whether we should operate a broader range of 
formats targeted at supporting those pubs at the lower 
end of our estate. Our core offering will remain the leased 
and tenanted model, incorporating the flexibility offered 
by our range of tied arrangements, but it is important 
that we understand how other formats could assist our 
ability to optimise our income whilst offering Publicans a 
number of options to best match their appetite for the risk 
and rewards of pub management. Within the assessment 
we are considering the full range of formats including 
commercial leases, franchise arrangements, partially 
managed and fully managed operations. We will examine 
current and anticipated market and consumer trends and 
will consider regulatory influences. The outcome may 
require us to develop an operational infrastructure capable 
of supporting such models. Of course, were we to develop 
a capability to support a managed format for the lower 
end of our estate, this could represent an opportunity to 
explore how we might use such a capability to optimise 
our income from other assets within the estate. 
Chief Executive’s Review
12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   12 10/12/2013   14:19:52 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Recognising that a successful pub requires skilled staff 
and Publicans, we have continued to invest in the quality 
of our training programmes. In addition to our existing 
free courses, such as “Food Retailing, Education and 
Development” , “Winning in a Local Market Area” and 
“Ways of Winning” , we have launched a new course 
called “Profit Through People” , which is designed to help 
Publicans improve business performance and get the 
best out of their staff. The course educates Publicans 
on how to coach and develop a motivated team, how to 
strategically review customer care and how to identify 
what makes a successful, profitable and sustainable 
business. Alongside these classroom courses, we have 
also launched an e-learning suite of over 20 courses, so 
that Publicans can improve their skills without having to 
leave their business. 
We have also partnered with Charnwood T raining Group to 
give Publicans easier access to apprenticeships that help 
improve core staff skills, covering the essentials required 
to run or work in a pub, including customer service, health 
and safety, licensing law compliance and handling money. 
By offering these apprenticeships, we are demonstrating 
to people that working in this industry means much more 
than standing behind a bar and are providing the tools 
they need to develop a successful and fruitful career. 
Our “100 Days” project, which launched this year, is a key 
component of our strategy to recruit and support better 
quality Publicans through our commitment to make the 
first “100 Days” of a Publican’s journey with Enterprise 
as smooth as possible. Building upon our existing 
comprehensive support to help Publicans get their 
businesses off to the best start, the project has enhanced 
the tools and framework for Enterprise and third parties 
to deliver it. In return for the unrivalled support that is 
offered, we insist on quality and commitment, both 
of which contribute to a more sustainable long-term 
business. 
We have also redesigned our website, as we identified a 
need to have more accessible information and to improve 
the communication of the Enterprise offer to all audiences 
to demonstrate why we believe it is the most competitive 
within our industry. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
13 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   13 10/12/2013   14:19:54 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Selling smarter
Our activities in this area are designed to support Publicans 
in order to enhance their income, to reduce costs paid to 
third parties and to improve beer sales and margins.
Product Offer
We have developed new strategic partnerships to help 
our Publicans by making their businesses even more 
competitive and attractive. With regard to entertainment, 
we have agreed terms with Molson Coors to provide the 
Sky entertainment package to Enterprise pubs at a 30% 
discount to list price, a potential average saving for each 
participating pub of £3,000 per annum. To date over 495 
Publicans have taken advantage of this offer. Additionally 
we have negotiated market-leading terms to enable 
Enterprise Publicans to enjoy significant discounts while 
taking full advantage of the investment made by BT into 
sports viewing. 
We have also partnered with the communications 
infrastructure and media services company Arqiva to offer 
a free, high speed WiFi service to our Publicans and their 
customers. Not only will this service help our Publicans 
to attract additional footfall and increase customer dwell 
time in their pubs, it will also typically save them £500 per 
annum. Over 1,500 Publicans have signed up for this offer 
and we are busy working with our partners to install the 
service as quickly as possible. Increasing the number of 
pubs that have access to high speed internet also gives 
us the opportunity to interact with our Publicans through 
our digital communication channels and will provide the 
platform for increased electronic ordering and marketing 
as we further develop our digital capabilities.
With the importance of a quality food offering now well 
established, we have also introduced a new partnership 
with Brakes – the “Enterprise Pub Club” – which is 
bringing cost savings, exclusive promotions, business 
planning, menu design, print services and other business 
tools to over 150 of our Publicans.
We have partnered with Crown Cellars of Carlsberg UK to 
provide a new wines and spirits portfolio. Crown Cellars 
have been supplying wines and spirits for over 20 years and 
their expert team has worked closely with us to develop 
a range that is broader and deeper than ever before. The 
new range has been considerably extended to include a 
large number of new premium spirits to capitalise on the 
growing consumer trend for this category. Along with our 
extended range, Publicans have access to merchandising 
hints and tips, food matching suggestions and profit 
calculators.
Pub Offer
We continue to provide meaningful support to Publicans 
in a number of different ways through help with marketing 
initiatives. This year, we have distributed thousands of 
free business support kits to help Publicans with the 
key occasions through from Halloween to New Year 
(“Countdown to Christmas”), the spring months (“Spring 
into Action”), and all the sporting occasions and festival 
opportunities of the summer (“Summer Drinks” and 
“Cask and Quality”). All kits are delivered to our pubs, 
packed full with point-of-sale resources and advice to help 
maximise trade in the pub over the relevant months. 
Through our “empower” communications, a monthly 
newspaper and a weekly e-bulletin, we keep our 
Publicans up-to-date with industry news, commercial 
offers and events throughout the year. In addition, 
75% of our Publicans are registered to use a dedicated 
Publican channel on enterpriseinns.com where they can 
access further support, tools and advice on running their 
business.
Chief Executive’s Review
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   14 10/12/2013   14:19:54 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Exceptional local support
Through the local management of our pubs, we tailor our 
support as appropriate for each area. For example, during 
the year we have trialled a cluster approach to identifying 
the appropriate offer for all our pubs in and around the 
centre of Wakefield. Within a one mile radius of Wakefield 
city centre we own 13 pubs which collectively delivered 
a like-for-like decline in net income in 2012 of some 20%, 
arising from extremely difficult market conditions. Rather 
than look at each pub individually the local team focused 
on a holistic strategy to cover all of the pubs together. 
As a result of this cluster strategy we invested a total 
of £280,000 to differentiate between the sites; we 
transferred two sites to a Beacon operation, changed the 
pub offer in seven pubs and sold one site. Collectively 
the Wakefield pubs delivered a 7% like-for-like net income 
growth in the current year and an estimated return on 
investment of some 15%. 
Our regional managers are critical to the commercial 
relationship between us and our Publicans and three 
of them were finalists at the 2012 ALMR Operations 
Managers Awards, proving themselves as excellent 
leaders in their field. As at September 2013, we also had 
five regional managers as finalists in the 2013 awards. 
All our regional managers are currently engaged in the 
BII Level 4 Certificate in Multiple Licensed Premises 
Management course and all will have completed the 
course by the end of the 2013 calendar year. This 
accreditation requires a great deal of work, including 
exams, coursework and conducting role play assessments 
on a number of modules integral to their relationship with 
Publicans, such as P&L and budget control, negotiation 
and communication skills, as well as business planning 
and managing meetings. 
Behind every great community pub, there is a great 
Publican. In 2012 we launched our Community Hero 
Awards programme where we committed £1 million over 
10 years to community causes and initiatives promoted 
by our Publicans and their customers. Many regularly 
make an incredibly positive impact on the communities 
they serve. We like to call them Community Heroes 
and their activities can involve anything from providing 
a local meeting space for a community group or raising 
awareness and funds for a chosen charity. The inaugural 
awards strengthened the outstanding community work 
of 18 pubs. Again this year, a panel of judges – including 
the 2012 National Winner, Publican Jim Woolley from the 
Hare Inn in Leighton Buzzard – selected the 18 Regional 
Winners for 2013 who were awarded £5,000 each to build 
on their support for local causes. At the Community Hero 
Awards ceremony attended by Brandon Lewis MP , the 
minister responsible for community pubs, the National 
Winner was unveiled as Debbie Collinge of The Lord 
Nelson, Luddenden, West Y orkshire and she was awarded 
a further £5,000 to invest in her chosen community 
initiatives.
For our Community Hero 
Award Winners see page 127
In April and May of this year, we hosted a series of 
roadshows – called “empowerlive!” – presenting our 
Publicans with a great opportunity to not only network 
with suppliers and professionals from across the industry, 
but also to profit from access to over £6,000 worth of 
exclusive, show-only offers and deals, a host of prizes 
and activities, upcoming products and services, insightful 
seminars and interactive workshops to help them build 
their businesses. The roadshows were open to all 
Enterprise Publicans, taking place at seven key locations 
around the country such as Wembley Stadium and Leeds 
United FC, and brought together a huge range of major 
suppliers such as AB InBev, Diageo, Heineken, Molson 
Coors, Brakes, Mediatheme, BII and Drinkaware to name 
but a few.
Community Hero Awards, National Winner 2013
Debbie Collinge of The Lord Nelson, Luddenden,  
West Yorkshire
The Lord Nelson is at the heart of all village events 
throughout the year, from Easter egg hunts and charity race 
nights to a Santa’s Grotto at Christmas. The pub provides 
support and facilities for various local groups such as the 
Mayor’s Fund, the Luddenden Bloomers and the Pints of 
View Society.
Popularly known as ‘The Nelly’, the pub acts as a safe haven 
when the village is hit by floods or snow. Debbie and her 
team have big plans to get the most out of the £10,000 
Community Hero funding and is already looking to establish 
monthly IT classes following the purchase of new computer 
equipment. It is hoped that the purchase of a small gritter 
and plough will benefit local residents in the winter, whilst 
Debbie also plans to buy a defibrillator for the village and set 
up an annual Luddenden time-trial cycling event.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
15 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   15 10/12/2013   14:19:55 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
PROPERTY REVIEW – OPTIMISING OUR 
FREEHOLD ESTATE
£62 million invested to enhance the 
estate and support Publican profitability 
Our property team works with Publicans and our operational 
team to optimise the use and value of our assets and to 
implement suitable capital investment projects. During 
the year we invested £62 million enhancing the quality of 
the estate with an increased proportion of our investment 
focused on growth-driving activities. The property team 
works closely with operations to identify the optimum 
economic use for every asset, including reviewing the 
property condition, assessment of appropriateness of the 
retail offer of the pub and assessing the capabilities of the 
Publican. These considerations drive the identification of 
an agreed strategy between our operational and property 
teams so that we have a plan for every pub which will 
determine prioritisation of capital investment and early 
identification of underperforming pubs which should be 
disposed of. 
£150 million raised from successful 
programme of pub disposals
Total net proceeds received from our successful disposal 
programme in the year to 30 September 2013 amounted 
to £150 million, from the disposal of 428 properties in the 
year. The majority of these pubs, 400, were considered 
to be underperforming tail end pubs which generated net 
proceeds on disposal of £116 million, at an average value 
of £290,000, with an additional 28 properties considered 
to be exceptional, generating net proceeds of £34 million 
at an average multiple of 14 times income.
Following the issue of a convertible bond during the 
year, we now intend to reduce our disposal programme 
to focus purely on the underperforming element of the 
estate to generate sufficient cash proceeds each year 
to fund the annual capital investment in the retained 
business to enhance its income potential. Total disposal 
proceeds for the year to 30 September 2014 are expected 
to be in the region of £70 million, of which some £20 
million is expected from our Unique estate.
Effective asset management
An important aspect of the role of our property team is to 
operate as any commercial landlord should. Our Publicans 
have legal responsibilities with regard to the upkeep of our 
pubs and we need to ensure that: firstly, our Publicans are 
aware of, and understand, their obligations; and secondly, 
these obligations are enforced. During the year we have 
enhanced our property maintenance procedures such 
that the property condition of every pub is assessed on 
a quarterly basis and the findings discussed and actions 
agreed with the Publican. We then have a monitoring and 
enforcement process to ensure required property work is 
completed and legally enforced where necessary. Such 
procedures, combined with a reduction in the instances 
of Publican change, are important to enable us to increase 
the proportion of our capital investment on growth-driving 
activities.
REGULATORY INTERVENTION – 
DISPROPORTIONATE AND UNWARRANTED
During the year we welcomed the decision of the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer to abolish the Beer Duty 
Escalator and to reduce the duty on beer by 1p per pint, 
bringing welcome relief to our Publicans. We were also 
pleased by the introduction of an employment allowance, 
reducing employers’ National Insurance bills by £2,000 
from April 2014. Against this backdrop it is particularly 
disappointing and unfortunate for the whole industry 
that BIS has again challenged the self-regulation in the 
landlord-tenant relationship. We have proactively engaged 
in the consultation process and await the outcome before 
considering any further course of action. Rather than 
adopting the proposals of the consultation, we believe 
that the industry should instead work together to increase 
transparency, awareness and understanding of the self-
regulatory system among tied tenants. The rights and 
benefits of this system are assured under an improving 
code of conduct, which is already legally binding through 
contract, without the need for the damaging and costly 
straitjacket of statutory intervention imposing unworkable 
rent controls that override the market.
As always, we have continued to work with representative 
bodies of property owners, brewers and Publicans to 
further evolve the Industry Framework Code of Practice 
and firmly believe that self-regulation is effective. Key 
elements of the self-regulatory regime are the low cost 
and easily accessible services provided by the Pub 
Independent Rent Review Scheme (PIRRS) and the Pub 
Independent Conciliation and Arbitration Service (PICAS). 
PIRRS provides Publicans with independent determination 
of rent at the time of a rent review, while PICAS provides 
a mechanism for dispute resolution and remedy. We will 
continue to extensively promote the availability of these 
services to our Publicans.
G E T uppen CBE 
Chief Executive 
18 November 2013
Chief Executive’s Review
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   16 10/12/2013   14:19:55 23069.04    10 December 2013 6:06 PM    Proof 6
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
17 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   17 10/12/2013   18:07:50 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
FINANCIAL RESULTS
For the year ended 30 September 2013 we have delivered 
EBITDA before exceptional items of £313 million, down 
£27 million compared to the prior year primarily due to 
the on-going disposal programme and the decline in like-
for-like net income. 
Pre-exceptional finance costs of £177 million are  
£12 million lower than the prior year as a result of our 
strategy of debt reduction, the primary savings being a 
significantly reduced average drawn debt on the bank 
facilities and reduced costs in relation to the Unique 
bonds due to prepayment and bond buy-backs to date. 
This equates to an average interest rate in the year of 
6.7% (2012: 6.6%).
Total pre-tax exceptional charges are £163 million (2012: 
£103 million) split between: operating costs of £2 million 
(2012: £4 million) relating to costs incurred in respect of 
the BIS consultation and internal costs of reorganisation; 
profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment of  
£7 million (2012: £15 million) including goodwill allocated 
to disposals; a reduction in the valuation of the pub 
estate of £84 million (2012: £83 million); a write-down of  
non-current assets of £81 million (2012: £44 million); and 
net finance costs of £3 million (2012: £13 million gain), 
which reflects an acceleration of debt financing costs 
from the cancellation of tranche A of the new forward start 
bank facility, partially offset by a gain of £1 million (2012:  
£13 million) on the buy-back and cancellation of Unique 
bonds during the first half of the year.
We have reported a net profit on disposal of property, 
plant and equipment (before goodwill allocation) of  
£21 million in the year (2012: £33 million) after writing 
down those pubs that were moved to assets held 
for resale by £74 million (2012: £25 million), of which  
£57 million was charged to the Income Statement in the 
year (2012: £17 million). We have, in addition, written 
down the value of pubs moved to assets held for resale 
but not yet disposed of by £35 million (2012: £36 million) 
of which £24 million (2012: £27 million) was charged to 
the Income Statement in the year.
Total tax in the year was a credit of £38 million, 
representing a charge of £26 million (2012: £35 million) 
on the pre-exceptional trading profit and a credit of  
£64 million (2012: £45 million) relating to the tax on 
exceptional items, largely related to the deferred tax 
impacts of the valuation movement and the lower 
statutory tax rates enacted in the year. The effective tax 
rate on the pre-exceptional trading profits arising in the 
year was 21 .5% (2012: 25.5%), 4.0% lower than the prior 
year largely due to the lower statutory tax rate in the year. 
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) of 19.0p was 1.5p 
(7%) lower than prior year. Basic EPS at a loss of 0.8p is 
9.6p lower than 2012, primarily due to the impact of the 
disposal programme and the annual property valuation. 
CASH FLOW
Net cash flow from operating activities at £291 million 
(2012: £296 million), was only slightly lower than the 
prior year in spite of the fact that operating profit was  
£26 million lower, due mainly to an improvement in 
working capital of £18 million. The total working capital 
movement in the year was an inflow of £7 million 
compared to an outflow of £11 million as the prior year 
included an outflow of £17 million relating to a change to 
supply terms as we moved to benefit from taking control 
of order processing and supply chain management. 
PUB ESTATE
Our estate now comprises 5,636 properties with a book 
value of £3.97 billion. The property portfolio comprises 
5,493 trading pubs and 143 properties which are 
alternative use outlets or properties pending disposal. The 
estate is predominantly freehold, with 94% by number 
and 99% by value of the estate held as freehold or  
quasi-freehold (long-term leases on peppercorn rents). 
Portfolio as at  
30 September 2013
No. 
of pubs 
Total value
£m
Current estate
Freehold and finance leases 5,228 3,916
Operating leases 265 11
5,493 3,927
Non-viable 
Freehold and finance leases 136 46
Operating leases 7 –
T otal 5,636 3,973*
*  Represented by total PPE (£3,947 million) excluding other 
assets (£24 million), together with non-current assets held for 
sale (£39 million) and operating lease premium (£11 million). 
Our pub estate is valued every year, analysing not 
only the current performance of every pub but also its 
future potential. The valuation is carried out in part by 
independent valuers and in part by our in-house team, 
with the end result benchmarked and reviewed for 
consistency. The valuation has confirmed that whilst 
the value of top quality pubs remains strong, there is 
a continuing weakness in the value of pubs in poorer 
locations and with less potential. As a result of this annual 
review, we have written down the value of the current 
estate by £139 million, a 3% reduction to £3.97 billion, 
with £84 million charged to the Income Statement and 
£55 million reflected in the revaluation reserve.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
We have a long-term, secure, flexible and tax efficient 
financing structure comprising bank borrowings, 
securitised bonds and corporate bonds. Despite the 
continued economic challenges we have maintained 
strong cash flows from operating activities, as well as 
generating £150 million net proceeds from the disposal 
of pubs in the year, which has enabled us to reduce net 
debt at 30 September 2013 to £2.5 billion compared to 
£2.7 billion at last year end.
Financial Review
18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   18 10/12/2013   14:19:57 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Corporate and convertible bonds 
In September 2013 we successfully issued an unsecured, 
seven year convertible bond for gross proceeds of  
£97 million, with the proceeds used to reduce existing 
bank debt. The bond was issued with a coupon rate of 
3.5% and at a premium of 35% to the “reference” 
share price of 141.5p, which means that the bonds are 
convertible at a share price of 191.0p into 50.8 million 
ordinary shares. The proceeds from this bond have been 
used to cancel £70 million of our new forward start bank 
facility and will enable us to reduce the requirement for 
future asset disposals as well as extending our debt 
maturity profile.
The opportunity to issue this bond and to move some of 
our financing into unsecured debt was due, in no small 
part, to the stabilisation of the business, the success 
of the disposal programme over the past few years 
and the refinancing of the existing bank debt in 2012. 
A consequence of this issue is a slowdown in the level 
of the disposal programme, which will lead to a quicker 
return to EBITDA stabilisation and growth once we return 
to a sustainable like-for-like growth in net income. 
In addition to the new convertible bond we have  
£1,185 million of secured corporate bonds which are 
non-amortising, secured against ring-fenced portfolios of 
freehold pubs and attract fixed rates of interest averaging 
approximately 6.5%, with the next scheduled maturities 
being £60 million in February 2014 and £600 million in 
December 2018. Following the issue of the convertible 
bond and the delivery of £150 million of proceeds from 
our disposal programme in the year, we will be able to 
repay the £60 million bond due in 2014 from existing 
resources. We would expect to refinance the £600 million 
bond due in 2018 at or before maturity, bearing in mind 
that it is secured on a portfolio of pubs with an up-to-date 
valuation of £1 billion and interest cover of two times.
Bank borrowings 
At 30 September 2013 our drawn bank borrowings net of 
cash were £41 million (2012: £310 million), a reduction of 
£269 million during the financial year. This was achieved 
through strong cash generation in the underlying business, 
the proceeds from the disposal programme and the 
proceeds of the convertible bond issued in September 
2013. We have reduced available bank facilities from  
£389 million to £180 million at the year end.
These existing facilities expire in December 2013 and, 
as announced on 1 June 2012, were to be replaced by 
a new £220 million forward start bank facility. Following 
the issue of the convertible bond, tranche A of the new 
facility, which was to attract interest of 5.0% (increasing to 
6.5%) over LIBOR, was permanently cancelled, reducing 
the new facility to £150 million, which is committed 
to 15 June 2016 (tranche B: £75 million and tranche C:  
£75 million), with all of the same financial covenants 
previously disclosed.
As a result of our strategic intent to reduce debt, and 
specifically our exposure to bank debt, we have seen total 
bank facilities decline from £1 .1 billion in 2008 to the new 
level of £150 million in December 2013. 
Securitised bonds 
During the year we have repaid £11 million of the Unique 
A4 securitised bonds, which, together with £9 million 
of bonds purchased and cancelled, leaves £1.3 billion 
outstanding at the year end. The bonds amortise over a 
period to 2032 and attract an interest rate of 5.7% to 7 .4%. 
At 30 September 2013 the Group was £73 million ahead 
of the amortisation schedule of the “ A class” securitised 
bonds through early repayment and market purchases. 
The £9 million Unique A4 securitised bonds were 
purchased in the year at an average discount of 5% to 
their nominal value. Following the year end date, we have 
also acquired and cancelled a further £6 million Unique 
A4 securitised bonds at a discount of 3% to their nominal 
value. These purchases represent the planned programme 
of purchase and cancellation of Unique Class A Notes 
that will keep us one year ahead of the scheduled debt 
profile. No further material purchases are required for the 
foreseeable future, although we will continue to monitor 
the bond markets for opportunities to capture value. 
Over the next three financial years to September 2016, 
the bonds are expected to amortise by £69 million in 
2014, £71 million in 2015 and £74 million in 2016.
BALANCE SHEET
Our Balance Sheet remains strong with total net 
assets of £1.4 billion, in line with the prior year, with no 
impairments to goodwill or other intangible assets. Within 
that we have £4.0 billion of tangible fixed assets, primarily 
reflecting the freehold value of the pubs, financed through  
£2.5 billion of net debt, which is generally long-term 
secured financing, representing a loan to value of 62% 
(2012: 63%).
The share price at 30 September 2013 of £1.44 (2012: 
£0.63) equates to an equity value of £722 million, up 
from £315 million in 2012, which compares with a 
net asset value per share of £2.81 (2012: £2.85). The 
differential between net asset value and market value has 
significantly reduced during the year as confidence in our 
capital structure has grown and as indications of trading 
performance stabilisation have become evident. 
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial, operational, 
information technology, economic and regulatory risks 
and uncertainties. The Group has formal management 
processes in place to regularly identify and evaluate all 
risks and maintains a risk register of all the significant 
risks facing the Group, some of which are external and 
therefore beyond our control. See pages 25 to 29 for full 
details of the Risks and Uncertainties.
N R Smith 
Chief Financial Officer 
18 November 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
19 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   19 10/12/2013   14:19:57 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
We recognise our duty to stakeholders to operate 
the business in an ethical and responsible manner. 
We are committed to developing our Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) agenda, recognising that it can play 
a major part in leading and influencing all of our Publicans 
as well as our own people and operations.
 This report does not contain information about any policies 
of the company in relation to human rights issues since 
it is not considered necessary for an understanding of 
the development, performance or position of the Group’s 
business activities.
We work to ensure that we provide 
the right resources, energy and 
focus to meet the expectations of 
our Publicans and other stakeholders 
in relation to CSR. We have made 
further progress in this area during 
the year which has been recognised 
by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
Full details of our responsibility policies and initiatives can 
be found on our website, enterpriseinns.com
COMMUNITY
We believe that the interests of responsible, 
entrepreneurial pub businesses need to be aligned to 
the interests of local communities and consumers. 
We therefore seek to ensure that our pubs provide a 
friendly, safe and controlled environment, and to promote 
the positive contribution that pubs make to their local 
communities.
We continue to work extensively with Publicans, local 
authorities and local communities to ensure that licensing 
hours and conditions are appropriate and take account 
of the opportunities and interests of all parties. Through 
membership of the British Beer and Pub Association 
(BBPA), we continue to engage with Government 
departments within the Home Office and the Department 
for Culture, Media and Sport, to promote understanding 
of, and compliance with, the licensing regime.
Pub is The Hub
We continue to support 
the philosophy and  
ethos of The Prince of 
Wales’s ‘Pub is The Hub’ 
campaign, encouraging 
rural Publicans to diversify 
and deliver a wider range of services to the communities 
they serve, ensuring that the pub becomes the heart of 
the community and continues to thrive as a vital part of 
village life. A number of our Publicans have developed a 
range of such services including the use of their properties 
as village shops and post offices. 
Responsible drinking
The irresponsible consumption of alcohol can have 
detrimental effects on the social structures of local 
communities. We recognise that Publicans, supermarkets, 
off-licences, the Government and the consumer all 
have responsibilities as regards the promotion and 
management of a responsible drinking environment. We 
seek to be responsible by the following means:
 ■ the Company is a sponsor of the Drinkaware Trust 
where Ted Tuppen is a Trustee. Drinkaware promotes 
responsible drinking and finds innovative ways to 
challenge the national drinking culture to help reduce 
alcohol misuse and minimise alcohol-related harm. 
This independent UK-wide charity is supported by 
voluntary donations from across the drinks industry 
and provides people with accessible, evidence-
based information about alcohol and its effects and 
works alongside the medical community, third sector 
organisations, Government, drinks manufacturers and 
retailers to promote responsible drinking;
 ■ we actively promote various proof of age card 
schemes to all Publicans and provide details of a 
variety of schemes to all new Publicans to enable 
them to operate a scheme in their premises; 
 ■ we promote the industry’s Challenge 21 campaign 
and have provided campaign materials to every pub;
 ■ through membership of the BBPA, we have 
participated in discussions with the Government in 
the fulfilment of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction 
Strategy; 
 ■ we continue to work proactively with local authorities 
and have actively made commitments to provide 
support for schemes such as Best Bar None and 
Pubwatch to develop and implement policies and 
strategies which are designed to address the potential 
consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising 
the majority of responsible Publicans and their 
customers; and 
 ■ using suppliers who have introduced sensible drinking 
messages on their products.
Charitable work
Our Community Hero Awards were created to honour 
those Publicans who make inspiring contributions to 
their community. The local pub has always been a focus 
for local life and we wanted to celebrate the contribution 
of Publicans who have such an impact on the fabric 
and cohesion of their communities. We are investing  
£1 million over a ten year period to fund the Community 
Hero Awards.
Corporate Social Responsibility
20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   20 10/12/2013   14:19:57 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Following on from the introduction of the Community 
Hero Awards last year an in-house Enterprise Charity 
Committee was formed in 2013. The Committee will be 
annually awarded a discretionary spend for charity with 
the majority of donations used to encourage charitable 
giving through employees taking part in charity events. 
For our Community Hero 
Award Winners see page 127
Race to the Stones Challenge:
On one of the hottest days of the summer in 2013, 105 
employees and guests joined the Race to the Stones, 
some walking, some running, along the oldest path in 
Britain: The Ridgeway. 
Enterprise paid the entry fee for employees and half 
the entry fee for a partner, friend or other family 
member to enter this event. 
The aim of the event was not only to fundraise, with 
money raised in sponsorship and donated to individually 
chosen charities such as Cancer Research and Help 
for Heroes, but also to encourage our employees to 
take regular exercise and push themselves that little 
bit further.
WORK PLACE
We recognise that our people are key to the success of 
the business. We value the contribution of each and every 
one of our colleagues. We want to create an inspiring 
working environment where everyone is engaged and 
motivated.
Health and wellbeing
It is important to the Group that we support our employees 
in their health and wellbeing. The Group operates a flexible 
benefit scheme that is available to all members of staff 
and includes benefits such as the cycle to work scheme, 
leisure club membership, private medical and dental 
insurance, a health screening service and a confidential 
Employee Assistance Programme.
Our Values
Our shared set of values, “CHIEFS” , embodies our 
approach:
Clarity
Having clear purpose, clear thinking, clear 
communication and action.
Hard Work
Having a ‘can do’ attitude and drive to get the job done.
Integrity 
Demonstrating integrity and ethical behaviour, 
honouring commitments and respecting everybody.
Empowerment
A focus on personal accountability for finding solutions 
and achieving results.
Fun
Creating a positive, energising and fun environment, 
celebrating success.
Service
Providing an unrivalled level of service to all our 
customers.
Policy
The Group’s employment policies and procedures are 
described in detail in its Staff Handbook, which is available 
to all employees on its internal information portal. 
This Handbook takes account of relevant employment 
legislation and best practice. New policies, procedures 
and related training are developed as required. The 
Group’s anti-bribery and corruption code of conduct sets 
out how Group employees, Publicans and suppliers must 
act to ensure that our zero tolerance approach to bribery 
and corruption is upheld.
Diversity
We are committed to equal opportunities and the creation 
of an entirely non-discriminatory working environment. 
The aim of our diversity policy is to ensure that no job 
applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment 
because of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, 
race, age, sexual preference, religion, belief or disability. 
All decisions are based on the merits of the individual 
concerned. The Group is dedicated to undertaking its 
business operations in a way which respects individual 
human rights, treats individuals with dignity and allows 
freedom of association.
We give full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the requirements of the 
job can be adequately fulfilled by people with disabilities. 
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange 
suitable retraining for, any employee who becomes 
disabled during their employment as well as providing 
training, career development and promotion to disabled 
employees wherever appropriate.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
21 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   21 10/12/2013   14:19:58 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
At 30 September 2013 the number of employees was  
as follows:
Employees (FTE) Male Female
Directors 6 1
Senior managers 9 7
Employees 256 191
Training
We are committed to training and developing all of our 
colleagues. We place great importance on developing 
skills and potential in order to support our colleagues, 
harness talent and drive business performance. Wherever 
possible we endeavour to fill our vacancies through 
internal progression. Training is provided in a number 
of ways, through on the job coaching, formal training 
courses, e-learning and mentoring. We also sponsor 
a number of our colleagues in studying for appropriate 
professional qualifications.
Communication
Emphasis is placed on effective communication regarding 
matters that may affect employees and the overall 
performance of the Group. Employee engagement is met 
through a variety of means, including regular briefings 
and team meetings. The Group’s internal information 
portal is also widely used to ensure employees are 
regularly updated on developments and news; feedback 
is encouraged. In addition, the Group regularly publishes 
“empower” (also available on the Company’s website) 
which contains items of news, current affairs and 
information relevant to employees and Publicans.
Share schemes
We encourage employee ownership of Company shares 
through the provision of a Save As You Earn scheme in 
which 168 employees have entered into savings contracts, 
at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares 
at a 20% discount to the market price of the shares at the 
time of the issue of the options and the Share Incentive 
Plan in which 206 employees have purchased shares out 
of pre-tax income up to statutory limits which are held 
in a trust. The Company currently offers matching share 
awards to employees purchasing shares in accordance 
with the Share Incentive Plan.
In recognition of our employment policies, we have 
attained the prestigious accolade of an Investors In 
People Champion.
MARKET PLACE
Enterprise encourages positive working relationships 
with its Publicans and supply chain partners. 
Publicans
In line with the entire industry, we are totally committed 
to fair, transparent and lawful dealing with our Publicans.
We have a Code of Practice (with ‘benchmarked’ status 
from the British Institute of Innkeeping Benchmarking 
and Accreditation Services) under which we manage 
relationships with Publicans, training is arranged to 
provide support to our Publicans and to develop business 
potential and we seek to ensure that appropriate and 
reasonable actions have been implemented across the 
pub estate to ensure our Publicans comply with the 
disability discrimination legislation. 
Supply chain partners
Supply chain partners are selected on the basis that they 
have similar core values to Enterprise.
We strive to maintain long-term, respectful and mutually 
beneficial relationships based on clarity of purpose, 
integrity, honesty and fairness.
The benefits of this approach include improved quality of 
service to our Publicans and their customers as well as 
the local communities surrounding our pubs. 
Our Publicans support local businesses
Our Publicans recognise that by sourcing local fresh 
produce they are not only providing their customers with 
great quality but also supporting local businesses and the 
community.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Enterprise takes the Health and Safety management of 
its employees, Publicans and supply chain partners very 
seriously. To ensure the Health and Safety function is 
best placed to meet the evolving needs of the business, 
we operate two Health and Safety management groups 
designed to ensure that every area and function of the 
organisation has a say in the development of Health and 
Safety systems and procedures.
Health and Safety Management Group 
(SMG)
The SMG meets on a bi-monthly basis to discuss and 
debate any day-to-day Health and Safety challenges, 
demands and required solutions for the organisation. This 
includes any changes or breaches to our Health and Safety 
policies/procedures which are designed to safeguard 
safety through minimum impact on our operational/
commercial objectives. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   22 10/12/2013   14:19:58 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Strategic Health and Safety Group 
(SSG)
The SSG meets on a bi-annual basis to oversee the 
direction of Health and Safety within the business. This 
strategic group is specifically tasked with a governance/
oversight role to discuss the business’s performance, 
operational targets and objectives in relation to Health 
and Safety.
Primary Authority Agreement
The organisation continues to participate in a Primary 
Authority Scheme (PAS) relationship with City of 
Westminster Council. The PAS arrangement ensures a 
company trading across council boundaries is guaranteed 
access to robust and reliable advice about its regulatory 
responsibilities around Health and Safety subjects such 
as gas, electric and asbestos safety. During 2013 the 
Company is pleased to report it has taken part in a pilot 
exercise with London Fire Brigade facilitated by the Better 
Regulation Delivery Office, an independent unit within the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to look at 
the extension of the current primary authority remit to 
include fire safety. 
Whilst the key relationship that exists under these 
schemes is between Enterprise, City of Westminster 
Council and London Fire Brigade there is no doubt that 
our Publicans will also benefit from this relationship 
through the gradual introduction of a consistent approach 
to Health and Safety and fire safety through the scheme.
ENVIRONMENT
We recognise our responsibilities to achieve good 
environmental practice and to continue to strive for 
improvement in areas of environmental impact. Our 
approach is to work through education, communication 
and direct action wherever possible.
Greenhouse gas emissions
We are constantly looking for new ways to improve our 
carbon footprint and have put various initiatives in place at 
head office in order to achieve this objective, for example, 
passive low-energy lighting throughout the whole building 
and the installation of a voltage optimisation unit, which 
ensures that the minimum voltage required is used at all 
times.
Cars available to certain employees as part of the 
Company’s car scheme are currently subject to a CO
2
 
restriction of 120 g/km.
During the year, actions have been taken to further reduce 
our carbon consumption at head office, for example we 
have introduced mixed recycling in order to reduce the 
amount of waste that goes to landfill.
The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions statement below 
provides a summary of the Company’s greenhouse 
gas (carbon) emissions from 1 October 2012 to 30 
September 2013. It gives a summary of emissions from 
fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities (which 
include our offices and company cars, scope 1), and from 
our purchased electricity use during the year (scope 2). 
We have adopted the operational control approach, as 
defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition), 
2004, therefore emissions associated with our pubs are 
not included in this statement as they are outside the 
Company’s operational control.
For full disclosure of our 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
see page 24
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
23 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   23 10/12/2013   14:19:58 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Corporate Social Responsibility
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS STATEMENT
Assessment Parameters
Baseline year FY 2013
Consolidation approach Operational control 
Boundary summary All facilities under operational control were included
Consistency with the financial statements The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those assets listed 
in our financial statements. The pubs listed on our Balance Sheet are not under our 
operational control and therefore are not included in our emissions table, however 
approximately 250 leased vehicles which are under our operational control appear 
in our emissions table but not in our consolidated financial statements.
Emission factor data source Defra (October 2013)
Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 (2006)
Materiality threshold Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to contribute 
>1% of total emissions included.
Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee equivalent (FTE)
 
2013
Greenhouse Gas Emission Source (tCO
2
e) (tCO
2
e/FTE)
Scope 1 1,389 2.96
Fuel combustion (natural gas, diesel and fleet vehicles) 1,380 2.94
Operation of facilities (refrigerants) 9 0.02
Scope 2 450 0.96
Purchased electricity 450 0.96
Statutory total (Scope 1 & 2)* 1,839 3.92
Group Metrics
2013
FTE 470
Intensity Ratios (Gross Emissions)
2013
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per FTE (tCO
2
e/FTE) 3.92
* Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   24 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Risks and Uncertainties
The Board formally reviews the material risks and ensures that these are appropriately managed by the executive 
management team. The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Group’s risk management framework, including 
reviewing its effectiveness, however it has delegated responsibility for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of 
the risk management programme to the Audit Committee. The internal audit function provides assurance to the Audit 
Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control procedures through completion of the annual internal audit plan, 
which takes into account current business risks.
The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and how we mitigate them. This is not 
an exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Group may face as there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are 
not presently known to the Board or have not been included in this section on the basis that they are not considered 
to be material.
Strategy & business model 
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes
Regulation of the tied pub model
On 22 April 2013 the Department for Business, Innovation 
and Skills (BIS) issued a consultation paper proposing the 
introduction of a Statutory Code (the Code) and an Independent 
Adjudicator for the pubs sector to govern the relationship 
between large pub companies and their tenants and enforce 
the proposed Code. 
Depending on the outcome of the consultation process, the 
requirements of the Code, if implemented, could have an 
impact upon our profitability, our operational strategy and our 
relationship with our Publicans.
■ ■ The Group is committed to the tied pub model and works 
closely with a number of stakeholders to support the pub 
sector, evolve the tied pub model and ensure it operates 
an appropriate Code of Practice to promote a mutually 
beneficial relationship with its Publicans. The Group actively 
engages with the Government, trade bodies and other 
stakeholders and is participating in the BIS consultation 
process. 
■ ■ The outcome of the BIS consultation is still unclear and any 
recommendations could be subject to legal challenge and 
review. Depending on the outcome, the Board believes that 
there are a number of actions it could take to mitigate the 
financial impact of any proposed changes on the Group.
Licensing and other regulatory factors
There is a risk that changes to the regulations relating to the 
sale of alcohol could have an impact on the Group’s business 
and the ability of our Publicans to operate their pubs. 
These risks include changes to licensing legislation and 
increases to alcohol duties imposed by the Government and 
the impact of social responsibility issues on the industry in 
general.
■ ■ The Group works closely with Local Authorities as 
necessary to ensure licensing requirements are dealt with 
whenever appropriate.
■ ■ The Group is a member of a number of trade bodies and 
associations, is a contributor to the Drinkaware Trust, 
and works closely with these organisations to promote 
responsible drinking practices. Further details can be 
found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our 
website at enterpriseinns.com.
Litigation
The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry and may be 
involved in legal or statutory proceedings in relation to our pubs 
or Publicans. The impact of such litigation may be immaterial in 
value but may result in harm to the Group’s reputation. 
■ ■ The Group employs an in-house solicitor and other 
specialists to ensure we comply with legislation and to 
manage any litigation with our Publicans.
■ ■ The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary 
whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation to 
its pub estate. Where appropriate, the Group takes legal 
proceedings against Publicans to ensure compliance with 
their agreements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
25 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   25 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes
General economic conditions
The Group’s business operations are sensitive to economic 
conditions and the continuing economic downturn has had 
an adverse impact on consumer spending. This has impacted 
on the levels of Publican change and Group revenues and 
could continue to do so if the downturn persists. The general 
economic outlook remains uncertain.
■ ■ The Group regularly monitors its key income streams and 
Publicans’ performance to ensure the Group is competitively 
placed in the market, including regularly reviewing financial 
forecasts to assess the impact of economic conditions 
on its budget, strategic plans and its Publicans. Careful 
consideration is given to all Publicans’ requests for 
additional operational and financial support as well as 
assessing appropriate investment in the development of 
our pubs to ensure that we remain competitively placed 
in the market.
■ ■ The Group continues to foster mutually beneficial 
relationships with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any 
price increases is minimised wherever possible.
Health and Safety
A Health and Safety incident could result in a serious injury to 
the Group’s employees, Publicans or their customers.
■ ■ The Group has developed an effective Health and Safety 
management system to ensure compliance with all legal 
duties placed on the organisation by Health and Safety 
law. All systems are subject to regular review with training 
provided as appropriate.
■ ■ The Group employs a Health and Safety Manager to 
maintain the Health and Safety management system along 
with the identification and remediation of specific risks and 
ensuring employees are aware of regulatory requirements. 
The Health and Safety Manager reports to the Board 
periodically.
■ ■ The Group operates a Health and Safety Committee 
system which brings representatives from key areas of 
the business together to consider all aspects of health 
and safety and ensure policies, procedures and working 
practices are suitable and sufficient to control risk within 
the Group.
■ ■ The Group operates a Primary Authority Agreement with 
Westminster City Council. The purpose of this agreement 
is to ensure all policies and procedures provide suitable and 
sufficient control over Health and Safety risks and therefore 
ensure the Group remains legally compliant.
■ ■ The Primary Authority team are also tasked with 
undertaking regular Company-wide audits of the Group’s 
Health and Safety management system. The audit regime 
provides a regular independent overview of all health and 
safety arrangements across the Group and allows for the 
prioritisation of any further areas of development. Following 
the completion of an audit during the year, the Group was 
found to have achieved legal compliance with all policies 
and procedures currently in place. The Group will now 
focus on delivering additional developments to existing 
arrangements to exceed industry best practice in this area.
Risks and Uncertainties
26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   26 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Pub operations
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes
Employees
The Group is reliant on its employees to provide key support 
functions in order to achieve its strategic aims.
■ ■ The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee 
training, retention and reward policies and has attained the 
prestigious accolade of “Champion” status for Investors In 
People.
Supply chain management
The Group places reliance on key suppliers and distributors to 
ensure that there is a continuous supply of drinks and other 
products to its Publicans. The Group is exposed to interruption 
or failure of these key suppliers which could result in such 
products not being delivered to Publicans on time.
■ ■ The Group works closely with its key suppliers and 
distribution partners to ensure good working relationships, 
as well as taking reasonable steps to try to ensure that key 
suppliers have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place 
to maintain continuity of supply.
■ ■ The Group also has its own contingency plans to minimise 
the disruption of any external interruption to supply.
■ ■ During the year there have been two major disruptions 
to our supply chain, being the collapse of Waverley and 
the strike at KNDL, which have impacted the business, 
although on both occasions our contingency plans have 
successfully managed the situation and minimised the 
overall impact on the business.
Publicans
The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train and retain 
the best quality Publicans for its leased and tenanted pubs, 
and failure to do this could impact on the Group’s strategic 
objectives. 
■ ■ The Group’s Publican recruitment and training programme 
and its variety of tenancy and lease agreements are 
designed to attract the best quality people. We offer an 
industry leading range of flexible agreements, funding 
options, tailored deals for appropriate applicants and award 
winning training courses.
Property management
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes
Property valuations
Valuations of the Group’s property portfolio have been affected 
by general economic conditions and resulting downwards 
pressure on maintainable income streams. 
These circumstances could continue and therefore reduce the 
valuation of the portfolio over time. There is a risk that changes 
in the UK property market and general economic conditions 
could impact on the value of our portfolio and the ability to 
dispose of underperforming pubs and the realisations from 
such disposals. Property valuations also have an implication for 
the overall value of the Group and impact on financial covenants 
(see section below).
■ ■ The Group ensures that every pub in its portfolio is valued 
annually at the market value by qualified external and internal 
valuers in accordance with RICS Valuation Standards (8th 
Edition). These valuations comply with the requirements of 
International Financial Reporting Standards.
■ ■ We conduct a full estates review on an annual basis 
which allows us to set future strategy for each pub in the 
estate. This review also guides our investment in capital 
expenditure, allows us to consider possible alternative 
uses or to dispose of those pubs which no longer fit our 
strategy.
■ ■ We invested £62 million on developing and improving our 
pubs during the year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
27 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   27 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Capital structure
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes
Liquidity risk
The Group has a flexible financing structure comprising bonds 
issued from the Unique securitisation (securitised bonds), 
corporate bonds issued by Enterprise Inns plc (Enterprise 
corporate bonds) and bank borrowings. 
At the year end, committed bank facilities of £99 million were 
undrawn and a liquidity facility of £190 million is in place in 
respect of the securitised bonds. 
The £60 million debenture matures in February 2014 and in the 
medium-term a further £600 million of corporate bonds mature 
in 2018.
The primary liquidity risk is the requirement to meet all on-going 
finance costs, repay the principle amounts of the structured 
borrowing as it amortises and ensure there are sufficient 
funding facilities in place to enable the business to meet all 
cash flow requirements as they fall due.
■ ■ The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts 
to ensure there is sufficient cash available to meet the 
requirements of the Group. These reviews include the 
ability to meet restricted payment conditions in the 
securitised bonds in order that cash can be released by the 
payment of dividends through the securitisation structure 
to Enterprise Inns plc.
■ ■ There are a number of options available to the Group to 
manage its commitments and to reduce debt, including 
the disposal of pubs, reducing capital expenditure on the 
estate as well as raising new capital through the bank 
facility or issuing new corporate bonds. 
■ ■ The Board initiated a debt reduction programme in 2008, 
which is on-going, successfully generating £150 million of 
net proceeds from pub disposals in the year. 
■ ■ The existing bank facilities were renegotiated in 2012, with 
a new forward start bank facility commencing in December 
2013, and a new unsecured, convertible bond was issued in 
the year raising gross proceeds of £97 million.
■ ■ Based on all of these factors the Board is comfortable 
that there is sufficient headroom to meet the liquidity 
requirements of the Group, including the ability to repay 
the £60 million debenture in February 2014 from existing 
cash and available facilities.
Financial covenants risk
There is a risk that the Group could breach the financial 
covenants that relate to the financing structure of the Group.
There are two covenants that relate to the Unique securitisation 
which are tested at each quarter end and are based solely on 
the assets held within the Unique securitisation. There is a net 
asset covenant and a debt service cover covenant. 
There are two covenants that relate to the corporate bonds; an 
asset value covenant and a net annual income covenant. At the 
year end there is an annual valuation of the pub estate and a 
review of the annual income for the pubs secured under each 
of the Enterprise corporate bonds. 
In the event that pub values or pub incomes have fallen there 
may be a requirement to add more pubs to the security of 
the corporate bonds and any addition of new pubs must be 
completed within 90 days of the year end. 
There are four covenants that relate to the bank debt, which 
are tested quarterly. There are two leverage covenants and two 
asset valuation covenants.
■ ■ Throughout the year the Group tests all of the financial 
covenants and forecasts are prepared during the budgeting 
process. The Board regularly reviews detailed financial 
forecasts of the Group to ensure there is sufficient 
headroom on all covenants. 
■ ■ The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures 
which are reported to debt providers on a quarterly basis.
■ ■ The covenant valuation is completed by a firm of independent 
chartered surveyors and the directors certify the net annual 
income as part of an annual compliance exercise. If any of 
the bonds require the substitution or addition of pubs to 
their security, this is carried out promptly in the relevant 
period, in accordance with the covenant requirements and 
in conjunction with the Trustees.
■ ■ When new financing is agreed, the Board reviews a wide 
range of financial forecasts to ensure that there is sufficient 
headroom on all covenants throughout the period of the 
new facilities.
■ ■ The Board is satisfied that there is sufficient headroom on 
all financial covenants.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates in respect 
of the drawn bank borrowings of £81 million. All other debt is 
borrowed at fixed rates.
■ ■ The Group manages its cash flow to minimise the variable 
rate interest borrowing at any one time.
Risks and Uncertainties
28 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   28 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Information technology
Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes
Systems failure
The Group’s daily operations are reliant on its information 
technology systems for accounting, reporting and 
communication. There is a risk that serious disruption could 
result if these systems fail for an extended period of time.
■ ■ A business continuity plan is in place to ensure the business 
could continue to function in the event of a major systems 
failure. This plan is regularly tested.
■ ■ There are comprehensive controls in place to protect 
information technology systems, including anti-viral 
software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
System enhancements
Any major changes to systems, such as an upgrade to existing 
systems or any new implementations, could have a significant 
impact on the running of the business.
■ ■ The planning of IT resources, including the prioritisation 
and timetable for the implementation of change projects 
is reviewed regularly by the IT Steering Committee, which 
regularly reports to the Executive Committee.
■ ■ All changes are carefully managed through internal IT 
resource or with the assistance of external IT advisers to 
ensure it is all fully planned, built and tested before being 
put into a live environment to impact other systems or key 
processes in the business.
Cyber risk
Increasing levels of cyber-crime represent a threat to every 
business with the potential to cause a loss of system availability, 
which could have a consequential financial loss.
■ ■ The threats facing IT are regularly monitored as part of 
the on-going review by the IT Steering Committee, which 
regularly reports to the Executive Committee.
■ ■ IT disaster recovery and business continuity plans exist and 
are tested regularly to ensure the business could continue 
to function in the event of a major systems failure. There 
are comprehensive controls in place to protect IT systems, 
including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site 
storage of data.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL
The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 02 to 29, incorporates the Financial Highlights, the Chairman’s Statement,  
the Strategic Review, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report and the Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board
L T ogher 
Company Secretary 
18 November 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
29 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   29 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
The directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory 
financial statements for the Group for the year ended  
30 September 2013. 
The Governance Report on pages 35 to 38, and the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report (with regard to 
information about the employment of disabled persons, 
employee involvement, share schemes and greenhouse 
gas emissions) are also incorporated into this Report by 
reference.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with the 
Companies Act section 414 C(1 1) to include the disclosure 
of likely future developments in the Strategic Report (see 
pages 02 to 29).
ACCOUNTS AND DIVIDENDS
The Group loss for the year, after taxation, amounted to 
£4 million (2012: profit of £44 million). 
The directors are not recommending the payment of 
any dividend on its ordinary shares for the year ended  
30 September 2013 (2012: nil).
SHARE CAPITAL
As at 30 September 2013, the Company’s issued share 
capital comprised 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2.5 
pence each as set out in note 29 to the accounts on  
page 104. 
Authority of the directors to allot shares
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM 
held on 31 January 2013 to allot shares and to grant rights 
to subscribe for, or convert securities into, shares up to a 
maximum nominal amount of £8.4 million. The Company 
did not issue any shares during the period under review 
but, pursuant to the terms of convertible bonds issued 
by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, agreed 
to issue up to 50.8 million shares on conversion of the 
bonds. This authority will expire at the 2014 AGM and the 
directors will be seeking a new authority for the directors 
to allot shares, and to grant subscription and conversion 
rights, to ensure that the directors continue to have the 
flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, 
when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares or 
granting such rights. There are no current plans to issue 
new shares except in connection with employee share 
schemes and on conversion of the bonds.
Purchase of own shares by the 
Company
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM 
held on 31 January 2013 to purchase up to a maximum 
of 14.99% of its ordinary shares in the market. The price 
per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at 
a minimum amount (excluding expenses) of 2.5 pence 
per ordinary share and a maximum amount (excluding 
expenses) of the higher of: (i) 5% over the average of the 
previous five business days’ middle market prices; and 
(ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade 
and the highest current independent bid on the trading 
venue where the purchase is carried out. No shares 
were purchased under this authority during the period 
under review. This authority will expire at the 2014 AGM 
and the directors will be seeking a new authority for the 
Company to purchase its ordinary shares, which will only 
be exercised if market and financial conditions make it 
advantageous to do so. Further details are set out in the 
explanatory notes to the Notice convening the AGM on 
pages 123 and 124.
Treasury Shares and the Employee 
Benefit Trust
As at 30 September 2013, the Company held 50,000,000 
shares in Treasury as set out in note 29 to the accounts 
on page 104. There has been no change to the number of 
shares held in Treasury during the period under review.
In addition, 6,498,869 shares are held by the Company’s 
Employee Benefit Trust and movements during the year 
are set out in note 29 to the accounts on page 104. These 
shares are held to satisfy awards made under the various 
incentive and employee share schemes, details of which 
are set out in note 30 to the accounts on pages 104  
to 108.
Issue of shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating 
to authority and pre-emption rights, and any resolution of 
the Company in a general meeting, all unissued shares 
of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors 
and they may allot (with or without conferring a right of 
renunciation), grant options over or otherwise dispose of 
them to such persons, at such times and on such terms 
as they think proper.
Directors’ Report
30 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   30 10/12/2013   14:19:59 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
MATERIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 30 September 2013, the Company was aware of the following interests of 3% or more in the Company’s ordinary 
share capital:
Company
Number of
 ordinary 
shares
Percentage of
 voting rights 
of 
the issued 
share capital
Glenview Capital Management LLC 62,083,386 12.27%
Prudential Group (M&G) 51,649,726 10.21%
Odey Asset Management (i) 33,361,830 6.59%
BlackRock Inc 32,135,262 6.35%
Standard Life Investments Ltd (ii) 31,267 ,191 6.18%
Morgan Stanley Securities Limited (iii) 22,154,076 4.38%
Dimensional Fund Advisors 20,258,624 4.00%
Platinum Investment Management Ltd 20,023,487 3.96%
Old Mutual Global Advisors 18,383,384 3.63%
Norges Bank Investment Management 16,878,462 3.34%
Legal & General Investment Management 15,875,313 3.14%
Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report, there have been the following significant changes:
(i) The holding of Odey Asset Management is 35,555,558 ordinary shares (7 .03%)
(ii) The holding of Standard Life Investments Ltd is 28,562,426 ordinary shares (5.65%)
(iii) The holding of Morgan Stanley is 22,343,569 ordinary shares (4.42%)
The holding of Deutsche Bank AG is now 15,987 ,294 ordinary shares (3.16%), at the year end it was below 3% and therefore not 
included in the above table.
DIRECTORS
Biographical details of the directors currently serving 
on the Board are given on page 34. The interests of 
the directors in the Company’s shares, along with 
details of directors’ share options are contained in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61. There 
have been no changes in the interests of the directors 
between the Balance Sheet date and the date of approval 
of the accounts. Peter Baguley joined the Board on  
31 January 2013. David Harding retired from the Board  
on 31 January 2013.
AUDIT INFORMATION
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there 
is no relevant audit information (as defined in section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Group’s 
auditor is unaware and that all directors have taken all 
the steps they ought to have taken as a director to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of that 
information. This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Group has not made any political donations during 
the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so 
for the foreseeable future. 
GOING CONCERN
The directors have considered the Group’s financial 
resources including a review of the medium-term financial 
plan, which includes a review of the Group’s cash flow 
forecasts for the period at least 12 months from the date 
of approval of these financial statements. The Board is 
satisfied that the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in the trading 
performance of the Group, show that the Group will be 
able to operate within the level of its current facilities 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Group 
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its financial statements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
31 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   31 10/12/2013   14:20:00 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Directors’ Report
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND TREASURY
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, debt 
and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic Report 
on pages 02 to 29. In addition, details of the factors likely 
to affect the Group’s future development and performance 
are set out in the Risks and Uncertainties section on 
pages 25 to 29. Further details on our policy on financial 
instruments and capital risks and management are set 
out in notes 23 and 24 to the accounts on pages 90 to 99.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The AGM will be held on 6 February 2014. The Notice 
convening the AGM and an explanation of the resolutions 
to be put to the meeting are set out on pages 1 19 to 124. The 
directors consider that all of the proposed resolutions are 
in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders 
as a whole. It is the directors’ recommendation that you 
support the proposed resolutions and vote in favour of 
them, as each of the directors intend to do.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the 
Company’s current Articles of Association (the Articles) 
and applicable provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the 
Companies Act). More detailed information can be found 
in the Articles and the Companies Act.
Articles of Association
The Articles (adopted by special resolution on 17 January 
2008 and amended by a special resolution passed on  
21 January 2010) may only be amended by special 
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. A 
copy of the Articles is available on our website.
Significant agreements: change of 
control
All of the agreements in relation to bank borrowings, 
convertible bond and corporate bonds, to which the 
Company is party, contain provisions that allow the 
counterparties to terminate funding to the Company in 
certain circumstances where there has been a change 
of control of the Company. These are detailed within 
the financial instruments note to the accounts on pages  
90 to 98.
Rights and obligations attaching to 
shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares 
are set out in the Articles.
Voting rights attaching to shares
On a show of hands, every member who is present in 
person or by proxy shall have one vote. On a poll, every 
member who is present in person or by proxy shall have 
one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
Where shares are held by the Trustee of the Employee 
Benefit Trust and the voting rights attached to such shares 
are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the 
Company’s practice that such rights are not exercised by 
the T rustee.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to 
appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the 
Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend 
and to speak and vote at a general meeting. A member 
may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general 
meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise 
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by 
that member. A member that is a corporation may appoint 
one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general 
meeting as a corporate representative.
Restrictions on voting rights attaching 
to shares
No member shall, unless the directors otherwise 
determine, exercise any voting rights either personally or 
by proxy at a general meeting if any call or other sum 
presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect 
of any share or shares remains unpaid. Otherwise, the 
Company is not aware of any arrangements between 
shareholders that may result in a restriction on voting 
rights attaching to shares.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights 
attaching to shares
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the 
Company in respect of which the business being voted 
upon is being heard. Votes may be exercised in person, 
by proxy, or by corporate representatives (in relation to 
corporate members). The Articles provide a deadline for 
the submission of proxy forms (electronically or by paper) 
of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for 
the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
Shares in uncertificated form
Directors may determine that shares may be held in 
uncertificated form and title to such shares may be 
transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares 
should cease to be so held and transferred. 
Variation of rights attaching to shares
The Articles provide that rights attached to any class of 
shares may be varied with the written consent of the 
holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of 
the issued shares, or with the sanction of an extraordinary 
resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the 
holders of those shares. At every such separate general 
meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or 
representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value 
of the issued shares (calculated excluding any shares held 
in treasury). The rights conferred upon the holders of any 
shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in 
the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be 
varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking 
pari passu with them.
32 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   32 10/12/2013   14:20:00 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company other than:
 ■ restrictions which may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading 
laws);
 ■ restrictions pursuant to the Company’s share dealing 
code whereby the directors and certain employees 
require approval of the Company to deal in the 
Company’s shares; and
 ■ where a person with an interest of at least 0.25% in 
the Company’s certificated shares has been served 
with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in 
those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between 
shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer 
of ordinary shares.
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the 
Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time 
declare dividends not exceeding an amount recommended 
by the directors. The directors may pay interim dividends 
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the 
opinion of the Board, justifies such payment. The Board 
may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend 
or other monies payable in respect of the Company’s 
shares from a person with an interest of at least 0.25% if 
such a person has been served with a disclosure notice 
and has failed to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be 
provided by the Companies Act.
Appointment and replacement of 
directors
Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, 
the number of directors shall not be less than two but 
is not subject to a maximum number. A director is not 
required to hold any shares in the Company by way of 
qualification.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director and 
such director shall hold office only until the next AGM, 
when he or she shall then be eligible for re-appointment 
by the shareholders. The Articles provide that, at each 
AGM, all those directors who have been in office for three 
years or more since their election or last re-election shall 
retire from office. However, in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company 
are subject to annual re-election.
Further details of the directors’ service contracts can be 
found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
45 to 61 .
Powers of directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any 
directions given by special resolution, the business of the 
Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all 
of the powers of the Company to, for example: borrow 
money; mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, 
property and uncalled capital; and issue debentures and 
other securities, whether outright or as collateral security 
for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 
AGM held on 31 January 2013 to allot, issue and make 
market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares. This 
authority will expire at the 2014 AGM and the directors will 
be seeking a new authority for the Company to allot, issue 
and make market purchases of the Company’s ordinary 
shares. Further details are set out in the explanatory notes 
to the Notice convening the AGM on pages 123 and 124.
Directors’ indemnities
The Articles permit the Board to grant the directors 
indemnities in relation to their duties as directors, including 
third party indemnity provisions (within the meaning of 
the Companies Act) in respect of any liabilities incurred by 
them in connection with any negligence, default, breach 
of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company. No 
such indemnities have been granted.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
directors or employees providing for compensation for 
loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of 
a takeover bid. Further details of the directors’ service 
contracts can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 45 to 61 .
By order of the Board
L T ogher 
Company Secretary 
18 November 2013
Registered Company name: Enterprise Inns plc
Registered Company number: 2562808
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
33 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   33 10/12/2013   14:20:00 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Board of Directors
Robert Walker Chairman – Appointed to the Board 09/02/12
Robert, 68, spent over 30 years with Procter & 
Gamble, McKinsey and, finally, PepsiCo, where he was 
responsible for the company’s beverage operations 
in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. He is 
currently Chairman of Travis Perkins plc and Americana 
International Holdings Limited and Senior Independent 
Director of Tate & Lyle PLC. He was previously Chairman 
of W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Group Limited and BCA 
Europe Limited. He was also Group Chief Executive of 
Severn Trent Plc and has held a number of FTSE100/250 
Board appointments with BAA, Severn Trent, Signet 
Group, Thomson T ravel and Wolseley.
Ted Tuppen Chief Executive – Appointed to the Board 22/02/91
Ted, 61, led the management buy-in which resulted 
in the formation of the Company in 1991. He is a 
chartered accountant and was in practice until 1980 
with KPMG in London, North America and Europe. He 
then qualified with an MBA from the Cranfield School 
of Management before becoming managing director of 
a privately owned international engineering company 
where he worked until 1989. He has also worked in, 
and acted as a consultant to, a variety of businesses. 
He is Vice President, and the former Chairman, of the 
BBPA, a trustee of Drinkaware and was awarded a 
CBE in the 2006 New Years Honours List in respect 
of his contribution to the hospitality industry. Ted will 
retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on  
6 February 2014.
Simon Townsend Chief Operating Officer – Appointed to the Board 01/10/00
Simon, 51, joined the Company in February 1999, 
and was appointed to the Board in October 2000. He 
has worked in the pub and leisure industry for over 
20 years in various sales, marketing, commercial and 
operational roles, previously with Whitbread PLC, Allied 
Domecq PLC, Rank Group Plc and Marston, Thompson 
& Evershed PLC. He is currently Vice Chairman of the 
BBPA. Simon will assume the position of Chief Executive 
of Enterprise following Ted Tuppen’s retirement at the 
conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014.
Neil Smith Chief Financial Officer – Appointed to the Board 20/01/11
Neil, 48, a chartered accountant, joined the Company 
in January 2011. He was previously finance director of 
Compass Group UK & Ireland and Chief Financial Officer 
of Telewest Global Inc. He has held senior finance 
positions with Virgin Media and Somerfield plc.
Susan Murray Chairman of the Remuneration Committee – Appointed to the Board 03/11/04
Susan, 56, is Chairman of Farrow & Ball Limited and a 
non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, Imperial 
T obacco PLC and PernodRicard. She was previously Chief 
Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited and Worldwide 
President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff 
Company, a subsidiary of Diageo plc. She has previously 
held non-executive directorships with Aberdeen Asset 
Management PLC, SSL International PLC and Wm 
Morrison Supermarkets plc and was a member of the 
Independent Complaints Panel of the Portman Group 
and a director and council member of the Advertising 
Standards Authority. Susan will retire from the Board at 
the conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014.
David Maloney Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee – Appointed to the Board 10/07/08
David, 58, is currently Chairman of Reed & Mackay 
Travel Ltd and Brandon Hire Ltd, Deputy Chairman 
of Micro Focus International plc, senior independent 
director of Stock Spirits Group PLC and of Cineworld 
plc. He previously held non-executive directorships at 
Carillion plc and Virgin Mobile plc and was Chairman 
of Hoseasons Holidays Ltd. His executive roles have 
included those as Chief Financial Officer of Le Meridien 
Hotels and Resorts, Thomson T ravel Group and Preussag 
Airlines and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc. 
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants and is also Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees of the Make-A-Wish Foundation.
Peter Baguley Independent Non-Executive Director – Appointed to the Board 31/01/13
Peter, 60, is an independent consultant providing 
strategic property advice to retailers. Peter has held 
a number of senior management positions in the UK 
retail sector with a strong focus upon property. He 
was the leader of the Group property functions at both 
J Sainsbury plc and Boots Plc and has most recently 
advised one of the largest global real estate services 
groups on retail corporate strategy.
34 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   34 10/12/2013   14:20:00 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
During the course of the past year, and in addition to the 
Board’s activities described below, the Board has invested 
considerable time and effort to ensure that Ted Tuppen’s 
retirement as Chief Executive, and future succession 
planning (including Simon Townsend’s appointment as 
T ed’s successor) has been properly planned and executed.
I am also pleased to report that the Board’s initiative 
last year of allocating various operating functions in the 
Company to individual non-executive directors (including 
myself as Chairman) to both sponsor, mentor and engage 
with directly, has been a complete success. The exercise 
has helped to clarify the Board and its processes with 
the senior managers, and provide non-executives both 
with greater in-depth knowledge of the business they are 
mentoring, and the quality of talent below Board level. 
We intend to continue with this initiative.
Robert Walker 
Chairman
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE CODE 2012
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the Code) sets 
out guidance in the form of main principles and specific 
provisions on how companies should be directed and 
controlled to follow good governance practice. The rules 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) require listed 
companies incorporated in the UK to disclose, in relation 
to the Code, how they have applied those principles 
and whether they have complied with the provisions 
throughout the financial year. 
The Company reviews its compliance with the Code 
regularly and considers that it has fully complied with 
the provisions of the Code that are applicable to it for the 
whole of the year ended 30 September 2013.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 43, the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 44 and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61 are 
also incorporated into this Report by reference.
LEADERSHIP
Role of the Board
The Board has a collective responsibility to promote the 
long-term success of the Company for its shareholders. 
Its role includes reviewing and approving key policies and 
decisions of the Company, particularly in relation to Group 
strategy and operating plans, governance and compliance 
with laws and regulations, business development 
including major investments and disposals and, through 
its Committees, financial reporting and risk management. 
The Board has established a schedule of matters reserved 
for Board decision. This schedule details key aspects of 
the affairs of the Company which the Board does not 
delegate, including key strategic, operational and financial 
issues. A copy of the schedule of matters reserved can be 
found on the Company’s website.
The Board’ s agenda is managed to ensure that shareholder 
value and governance issues play an important part in its 
decision making. 
The Board delegates to management the day-to-day 
operation of the business, subject to appropriate risk 
parameters. Board meetings are scheduled to coincide 
with key events in the Company’s financial calendar, 
including interim and final results and the AGM. Other 
meetings during the year will review the Company’s 
strategy and budgets for the next financial year and the 
Company’s key risks as well as reviewing each of the main 
operating functions (financial, operational and property).
Board Committees
Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, 
the Board has delegated to its Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees certain authorities. The 
terms of reference for each of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees are published on the 
Company’s website. Separate reports for each of these 
Committees are included in this Annual Report and 
Accounts from page 39.
Role of the Chairman
The Board is chaired by Robert Walker. The Chairman is 
responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the 
Board, taking into account the interests of stakeholders 
and promoting the highest standards of governance. A 
summary of the Chairman’s responsibilities has been 
agreed by the Board, is set out in writing and is available 
on the Company’s website. In accordance with the Code, 
the Chairman met with the non-executive directors twice 
during the year, without the executive directors being 
present, to discuss in detail matters which they believed 
to be relevant for the purposes of the strategic business 
review, including key operational and financial issues, 
performance of the Chief Executive and overall feedback 
arising from the performance evaluation process.
Role of the Chief Executive
Ted Tuppen is the Chief Executive and is responsible 
for the preparation, evaluation and implementation of 
the Company’s strategic goals and leading the senior 
management team. The role is distinct and separate to 
that of the Chairman and clear divisions of accountability 
and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set 
out in writing and are available on the Company’s website.
Role of the Senior Independent Director 
(SID)
David Maloney is the SID. He is available to shareholders, 
provides a sounding board to the Chairman and 
serves as an intermediary for the other directors if 
necessary. The SID’s role includes responsibility for the 
Chairman’s appraisal and succession. A summary of the 
responsibilities of the SID has been agreed by the Board, 
is set out in writing and is available on the Company’s 
website. In compliance with the Code, the SID met with 
the other non-executive directors during the year in a 
forum that did not include the Chairman or the executive 
directors.
Governance Report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
35 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   35 10/12/2013   14:20:00 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Independence of directors
The Board has a strong independent element and 
currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, three 
executive directors and three non-executive directors. 
The Chairman and all of the non-executive directors 
throughout the year are considered to be independent in 
character and judgement; they satisfied the criteria in the 
Code on appointment and continue to satisfy the criteria. 
The non-executives have a wide range of skills and 
experience; they constructively challenge management; 
help develop the Company’s strategy and have satisfied 
themselves as to the integrity of the Group’s financial 
information, controls and risk management strategy. 
Further information about how they have achieved this 
can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39 
to 43 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 
45 to 61 .
All directors may take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense. There is a formal written 
procedure, available on the Company’s website, 
concerning independent professional advice and setting 
out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
As, at the date of this Report, Susan Murray has served 
more than nine years on the Board she will be retiring at 
the AGM of the Company in 2014. David Maloney has been 
on the Board for over five years and his re-appointment is 
subject to a rigorous review. Peter Baguley was appointed 
to the Board after the AGM held on 31 January 2013 and 
is, therefore, subject to re-election at the forthcoming 
AGM. The Board believes that Susan Murray, David 
Maloney and Peter Baguley continue to display all of the 
qualities of independence as set out in the Code.
Role of the Company Secretary
Loretta Togher is the Company Secretary. The role of the 
Company Secretary is to develop, implement and sustain 
good governance practices. This includes supporting 
the Chairman and non-executive directors as necessary, 
managing Board and Committee meetings, facilitating 
the induction of new directors, ensuring appropriate 
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance is in place and that 
the Group is compliant with statutory and regulatory 
governance requirements. The written responsibilities of 
the Company Secretary have been agreed by the Board, 
are set out in writing and are available on the Company’s 
website.
EFFECTIVENESS
Meetings and attendance
The Board held six scheduled meetings in the year under 
review. In addition, a strategic business review was held 
‘off site’ at which high level strategic issues, such as 
future business direction and its financial and operational 
implications, were reviewed and debated. The Board has 
an agreed approach for dealing with conflicts of interest 
in relation to matters which are scheduled for Board 
consideration, although no such conflicts arose during 
the year under review. If directors are unable to attend 
meetings then they are consulted prior to the meeting 
and their views made known to the other directors. 
A monthly ‘board pack’ is prepared at the end of each 
financial period which includes an update on key 
performance targets, trading performance against budget 
and includes detailed financial data and analysis including 
a review of applicable financial covenants. Board papers 
are generally circulated seven days prior to meetings to 
ensure directors have sufficient time to review papers 
ahead of the meeting. Attendance at scheduled meetings 
is set out below:
Governance Report
Attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings during year ended
30 September 2013
Scheduled 
Board
 meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration
Number of meetings held 6 3 5 4
Robert Walker 6 3(i) 5 4(ii)
T ed T uppen 6 3(i) 5 4(ii)
Simon T ownsend 6 3(i) – –
Neil Smith 6 3(i) – –
Susan Murray 6 3 5 4
David Maloney 6 3 5 4
Peter Baguley (iii) 4 2 3 3
David Harding (iv) 2 1 2 1
(i)  Robert Walker, Ted Tuppen, Simon Townsend and Neil Smith attended meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation. 
(ii)  Robert Walker and Ted Tuppen attended meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
(iii) Peter Baguley was appointed on 31 January 2013 and, therefore, did not attend meetings held before this date.
(iv) David Harding retired on 31 January 2013 and, therefore, did not attend any meetings held after this date.
36 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   36 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Training and development
The Company’s directors have a wide range of expertise 
as well as significant experience in strategic, financial 
and operational matters. All new directors receive a 
personalised induction programme designed to develop 
their knowledge and understanding of the Group, its 
culture and operations. On his appointment, Peter 
Baguley undertook such an induction, which included 
meetings with senior management across the Group and 
third party advisers such as the Company’s stockbrokers 
and legal advisers as well as visiting pubs and meeting 
Publicans with regional management. 
Training and briefings are also available throughout 
a director’s tenure as necessary, taking into account 
their existing qualifications and experience. During the 
current year, the non-executive directors were partnered 
with senior managers: they met with them; attended 
meetings; and participated in field visits. Feedback was 
given and considered by all of the non-executive directors 
to provide good insight, add value and allow for positive 
engagement between the directors and their partners 
from the senior management group. It is envisaged that 
this will continue and consideration will be given to the 
rotation of mentors.
All directors have access to management and to the 
advice of the Company Secretary, who regularly updates 
the Board on material governance and compliance issues. 
The training and development needs of directors are 
reviewed and assessed by the Chairman as part of the 
annual performance evaluation process. 
Board evaluation
Evaluation of the boards of FTSE350 companies should 
be externally facilitated at least every three years. The 
Company became a constituent of the FTSE350 in 
December 2012 and expects to commission an external 
evaluation within the next two years. The Board conducted 
an internal Board evaluation during the year. This process 
was led by the Chairman and each director completed an 
in-depth questionnaire which covered:
 ■ performance of the Board (including consideration of 
how the Board works together as a unit);
 ■ processes which underpin the Board’s effectiveness 
(including consideration of the balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the 
persons on the Board);
 ■ strategy; 
 ■ performance of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees; and
 ■ individual performance (giving consideration to 
whether each director continues to contribute 
effectively and show commitment).
The completed questionnaires were reviewed on an 
individual basis by the Chairman, who then had discussions 
with each director. The results of the review (including 
progress against the previous year’s recommended 
actions) were summarised by the Chairman and 
considered in detail by the Board. This year’s review found 
that last year’s actions had been fully implemented; that 
performance of the Board and its Committees continued 
to be effective in dealing with both day-to-day and on-
going strategic issues; and that the Board and Committee 
structure ensured that the governance requirements of 
the business were met. The specific actions identified for 
the Board from this process, were that:
 ■ the business mentoring system discussed above (in 
the training and development section) was working 
well and had been particularly welcomed in the 
business. The process will be continued for another 
year with each non-executive director continuing as 
mentor to the same senior manager with a view to 
rotating responsibilities in 2015; and
 ■ up to three of the six Board meetings will be held 
outside of the head office and specifically in each 
of the three operating regions at locations to be 
determined by the regional managing directors; this 
will include a presentation before the Board from 
regional management.
The Chief Executive is responsible for regularly reviewing 
the executive directors’ performance against objectives 
and the Chief Executive’s performance is assessed by the 
Chairman in consultation with the non-executive directors. 
In addition, the Remuneration Committee regularly 
reviews executive director performance in connection 
with their performance objectives. The Chairman’s 
performance is appraised by the SID in consultation 
with the non-executive directors, taking into account the 
views of the executive directors, and the non-executive 
directors’ performance is reviewed by the Chairman. 
As a result of these individual reviews, it is considered 
that the performance of each director continues to be 
effective and that each director demonstrates sufficient    
commitment to their role. Consequently, the Chairman 
can confirm that each director is suitable for re-election 
except for Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray, both of whom 
will be retiring at the AGM in 2014.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for proactively 
reviewing and refreshing the Board’s composition and 
further information about the roles and responsibilities of 
this Committee can be found on page 44.
Election of directors
The directors comply with the requirements of the Code 
and submit themselves for re-election every year, if they 
wish to continue serving and are considered by the 
Board to be eligible. Accordingly, the whole Board, with 
the exception of Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray, will be 
proposed for re-election at this year’s AGM.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
37 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   37 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Service agreements
The service agreements of the executive directors and 
copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive 
directors are available for inspection during business 
hours on any weekday (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and 
public holidays) at the registered office of the Company 
and will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes 
prior to, and during, the AGM.
External appointments
The executive directors may accept outside appointments 
provided that such appointments do not in any way 
prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive 
directors of the Company. None of the executive directors 
currently hold any such outside appointments.
The role of non-executive director requires a time 
commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus 
additional time as necessary to properly discharge their 
duties. There is no restriction on outside appointments 
provided that they do not prevent the directors from 
discharging their responsibilities effectively.
ACCOUNTABILITY
The Board should present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s position 
and prospects; maintain sound risk management and 
internal control systems and manage an appropriate 
relationship with the Company’s auditor.
Further information about how these principles have 
been applied is detailed in the Audit Committee Report 
on pages 39 to 43.
REMUNERATION
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, 
retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run 
the Company successfully, whilst avoiding paying more 
than is necessary for this purpose, and there should be a 
formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on 
executive remuneration.
Further information about how these principles have been 
applied is detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 45 to 61 .
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
We are committed to, and place a great deal of importance 
on, having an active dialogue with our investor base. The 
Company maintains constructive engagement with its 
key stakeholders including institutional shareholders. 
During the year, our Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer met with a number of our leading shareholders to 
discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group, 
strategy and new developments. In addition, the Chairman 
engaged with the majority of our top ten shareholders 
on a range of governance matters. The SID and the other 
non-executive directors are available to shareholders to 
discuss any matter they wish to raise. 
As regards governance issues, the Chairman aims to meet 
with most of our major shareholders shortly after the 
previous year’s annual general meeting. These meetings 
with shareholders are timed early in the process and 
quite deliberately, so that the Board has enough time 
to consider, and respond to, any shareholder concerns 
well in advance of the next year’s Annual Report. The 
Chairman normally contacts as many shareholders as 
possible, and not simply the very largest, to ensure the 
widest consultation possible (particularly given current 
market volatility) and also to ensure that the views of a 
shareholder who has substantially increased its stake 
during the year, have been fully taken into account. 
Following the announcement of results, an investor 
relations report is produced for the Board which 
summarises feedback from shareholders and ensures the 
Board has a balanced view from our major investors. In 
addition, the Board receives a monthly updated analysis 
of the shareholder register and material movements in 
holdings.
The Company ensures that any price-sensitive information 
is released to all shareholders at the same time in 
accordance with regulatory requirements. All major 
presentations are available to all shareholders through the 
Company’s website. 
Shareholders may choose to receive the annual and 
interim reports either in paper form or electronically. 
These reports, along with a wide range of shareholder 
information, are also available on the Company’s website. 
Additional information for shareholders can be found on 
pages 117 and 118. 
AGM
Shareholders receive at least 20 working days’ notice 
of the AGM. The AGM offers the opportunity for the 
Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees, to communicate the 
Company’s progress directly to shareholders. The Board 
aims to ensure that all members of the Board, including 
in particular the Chairmen of the Board committees, are 
available to answer questions at the AGM. To encourage 
shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the 
Company offers electronic proxy voting through the 
CREST service and all resolutions are proposed and voted 
on at the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders 
or their proxies. Voting results are announced on the same 
day as the meeting through RNS and made available on 
the Company’s website. 
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to 
be held on 6 February 2014 can be found in the Notice 
convening the AGM on pages 119 to 122.
By order of the Board
R M Walker 
Chairman 
18 November 2013
Governance Report
38 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   38 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit 
Committee (the Committee) during the 2013 financial 
year, a year that has seen a number of regulatory changes 
which have reinforced the role of the Committee, on 
behalf of the Board, in ensuring that the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable. 
In this report I have detailed how the Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities in relation to the three 
areas highlighted in the revised Corporate Governance 
Code, being:
 ■ addressing significant financial statement reporting 
issues;
 ■ assessing external audit effectiveness; and,
 ■ appointing the external auditor and safeguards on 
non-audit services.
Members of the Committee have continued to take an 
active role understanding certain aspects of the business 
and the risks and challenges it faces, including spending 
time with the operations and property teams in the 
field and also participating in key discussions on areas 
of financial judgement, such as the valuation meetings 
between the external auditor and professional valuers. 
These actions have allowed us to have an even greater 
input, for example in the design of the internal audit 
programme, and to develop greater awareness of the 
day-to-day challenges that the business faces and the 
potential consequences of such challenges.
Set out below are details on the processes we have in 
place to safeguard the independence and objectivity of 
our relationship with the external auditor and the role 
played by internal audit to ensure we have effective 
control and risk management processes.
David Maloney 
Chairman, Audit Committee
COMPOSITION
The Audit Committee was chaired during the year by 
myself, with the other non-executive directors, Susan 
Murray, David Harding (until his retirement from the 
Board on 31 January 2013) and Peter Baguley (from his 
appointment on 31 January 2013), all being members of 
the Committee. By virtue of my former executive and 
current non-executive director positions (full details of 
which are set out on page 34), the Board considers that 
I have current and relevant financial experience and also 
that all members of the Committee are independent.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the 
interests of shareholders are protected in relation to 
financial reporting and internal control; monitoring the 
integrity of the annual and interim financial statements; 
monitoring any formal announcements relating to the 
Company’s financial performance; and reviewing and 
challenging as necessary the judgements and actions of 
management in relation to the financial statements.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility 
for ensuring the financial statements, when taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee considers the appointment and, where 
appropriate, re-appointment of the external auditor; 
its reports to the Committee; its independence, 
remuneration, terms of engagement and objectivity, 
including its appropriateness to undertake non-audit 
work; and reviews the nature, scope and effectiveness of 
the external audit.
We also review the internal audit programme, ensuring 
management follow-up on issues raised and we conclude 
on the effectiveness of the internal audit function; review 
and monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems; review the Group’ s 
systems and controls for preventing and detecting fraud 
and bribery and review the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the Group’s arrangements for its employees to raise 
concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting 
or other matters.
The Committee reports to the Board on how we have 
discharged our responsibilities. The full terms of reference 
are available on the Company’s website, or on request to 
the Company Secretary.
What the Committee did in 2013
We met three times during the year, during which  
time we:
 ■ reviewed the interim and year end results and 
preliminary announcement;
 ■ received and considered, as part of the review of the 
interim and annual financial statements, reports from 
the external auditor in respect of the auditor’s review 
of the interim results, the audit plan for the year and 
the results of the annual audit. These reports included 
the scope of the interim review and annual audit, the 
approach to be adopted by the auditor to address 
and conclude upon key estimates and other key 
audit areas, the basis on which the auditor assesses 
materiality, the terms of engagement for the auditor 
and an on-going assessment of the impact of future 
accounting developments on the Group; 
 ■ considered the Annual Report and Accounts in 
the context of fair, balanced and understandable 
and reviewed the content of a paper prepared by 
management with regard to this principle in relation to 
the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts. This provided us 
with the supporting detail to ensure that we were in 
a position to report to the Board that the 2013 Annual 
Report and Accounts when taken as a whole were 
fair, balanced and understandable on the basis that 
the description of the business agrees with our own 
understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern 
us, appropriate weight has been given to the ‘good and 
bad’ news, the discussion of performance properly 
reflects the ‘story’ of the year and that there is a clear 
and well-articulated link between all areas of disclosure;
Audit Committee Report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
39 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   39 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
 ■ considered the effectiveness and independence of 
the external audit and recommended to the Board the 
re-appointment of Ernst & Young as external auditor;
 ■ improved our collective expertise in relation to the 
valuation of the Group’s pub assets through the 
appointment of Peter Baguley, who has previously 
held a number of senior management positions in the 
UK retail sector with a strong focus upon property;
 ■ received reports from management concerning 
various historical taxation and pension issues;
 ■ considered and agreed the annual internal audit plan;
 ■ considered the review of material business risks, 
including reviewing internal control processes used to 
identify and monitor principal risks and uncertainties;
 ■ reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing policy;
 ■ reviewed the Committee’s composition and confirmed 
that there is sufficient expertise and resource for us to 
fulfil our responsibilities effectively;
 ■ reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference; and
 ■ carried out an annual review of the Committee’s 
performance.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED IN 
RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the year the Committee, management and the 
external auditor considered and concluded on what the 
significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial 
statements and how these would be addressed.
Valuation of the estate
The Group has a policy of accounting for its licensed 
estate at fair value based on an annual revaluation 
exercise performed by two independent valuers and 
an internal team of chartered surveyors. The value of 
property, plant and equipment is the largest number on 
the Balance Sheet and the resultant movements following 
the annual revaluation are also significant. The valuation 
of the pub estate, including assets held for sale, against 
the backdrop of continued difficult economic conditions 
is a key consideration. The Committee therefore focuses 
attention on understanding and challenging the valuation.
As I reported last year, I attended the meeting held 
between the external auditor and each of the external 
independent professional valuers and the internal 
professional valuers. This year I was joined by my non-
executive colleague Peter Baguley, who has extensive 
property experience. In discussions at the meeting 
and subsequently with the external auditor we were 
assisted in our review by detailed analysis prepared by 
both management and Ernst & Young to understand the 
underlying basis of, and conclusions reached in respect 
of, the annual valuation of the Group’s pub assets (further 
details of which are set out in note 17 to the accounts on 
pages 84 to 87). 
Going concern
The Group has to comply with a number of financial 
covenants that relate to the financing structure of the 
Group as set out in note 23 on pages 90 to 98 of the 
accounts. Reaching a conclusion on the reliability of 
the budgets prepared by management is considered 
important to the Committee to ensure that covenants 
will not be breached and the Group will remain a going 
concern.
The Committee therefore reviewed, challenged and 
concluded upon the Group’s going concern review 
including giving due consideration to the appropriateness 
of key judgements, assumptions and estimates 
underlying the budgets that underpin the review and a 
review of compliance with key financial covenants. This 
also facilitated the Committee’s approval of the Group’s 
impairment review in respect of its tangible and intangible 
fixed assets. Included in the key assumptions underlying 
the impairment review was the discount rate utilised in 
such calculations in relation to last year and those used by 
other companies in the industry. The Committee was able 
to conclude that there was no need to change the rate at 
the current time.
Deferred tax
The provisioning for deferred tax remains a complex 
area requiring the Group to reflect the interaction 
between multiple elements of tax legislation and the 
specific requirements of IFRS. The application of these 
requirements to a pub estate comprising in excess of 
5,000 individual assets, introduces further risks which are 
addressed through the use of detailed tax models against 
information held on an asset by asset basis.
The Committee ensures that adequate resource is 
dedicated to the on-going maintenance of these tax 
models, that the output of these models is subject to 
robust and rigorous internal review and that, where 
necessary, management has validated the manner in 
which tax legislation and/or IFRS should be applied with 
external advisers, including the auditor where appropriate.
ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS OF 
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s 
performance and on-going independence, taking into 
account input from management, consideration of 
responses to questions from the Committee and the 
audit findings reported to the Committee. As part of 
the process, the Committee reviewed the auditor’s 
performance against criteria identified as part of the  
re-tender process in 2012, together with the feedback 
from the Public Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of 
Ernst & Young, issued by the FRC in May 2013.
Based on all of this information the Committee concluded 
that the external audit process was operating effectively 
and Ernst & Young continued to prove effective in its role 
as external auditor.
Audit Committee Report
40 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   40 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
APPROACH TO APPOINTING THE 
EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND HOW 
OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE ARE 
SAFEGUARDED RELATIVE TO NON-AUDIT 
SERVICES
The Company has adopted a policy on the independence 
of auditors which is consistent with the ethical standards 
published by the Audit Practices Board. A key issue for the 
Committee that may impair auditor independence, and 
the auditor’s objective opinion on the Group’s financial 
statements, is the engagement of the external auditor for 
the provision of non-audit services. 
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement 
of external auditors for the provision of non-audit services 
and reviews this annually. The policy is designed to ensure 
that such engagements do not result in the creation of 
a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the 
Group, that a transparent process and reporting structure 
is established to enable the Committee to monitor policy 
compliance and that unnecessary restrictions on the 
engagement of auditors for non-audit services is avoided 
where the provision of advice is commercially sensible 
and is more cost effective than other providers. 
The policy specifies:
 ■ services that are specifically not permitted, this 
includes work relating to accounting records that 
will ultimately be subject to external audit, valuation 
services, remuneration advice for key management 
and the provision of strategic advisory or consultancy 
services;
 ■ services that are permitted with prior approval of the 
Chief Financial Officer, this includes accounting advice 
and reviews of accounting standards and advice, due 
diligence matters as required by debt prospectuses; 
assurance work in respect of tax matters including tax 
compliance, routine tax planning and tax consultancy 
services; and
 ■ services that are permitted with prior approval of the 
Audit Committee, this includes any new engagement 
for an individual service or specific project other than 
defined within the above two categories.
The Chief Financial Officer reports to the Committee 
annually outlining all proposals considered during the 
year and the decisions taken, any proposals which the 
Committee is or has been requested to approve and the 
current level of expenditure for non-audit fees.
During the year, the Company engaged the external 
auditor in the provision of non-audit services, primarily 
relating to the resolution of certain legacy tax issues 
that it had been advising on previously in its role as tax 
adviser. As part of the tender process in 2012, KPMG 
were appointed as the new tax adviser and are therefore 
used for the preparation of tax computations and all new 
tax matters arising.
The total fees paid to the external auditor during the year 
under review amounted to £299,000, of which £134,000 
related to non-audit services. Full details are set out in 
note 8 to the accounts on page 77 .
Independence safeguards
In accordance with best practice and professional 
standards, external auditors are required to adhere to a 
rotation policy whereby the audit engagement partner 
is rotated after five years. The current audit engagement 
partner was appointed in 2011. The external auditors are 
also required to periodically assess whether, in their 
professional opinion, they are independent and those 
views are shared with the Committee.
The Committee has authority to take independent advice 
as it determines necessary in order to resolve issues 
on auditor independence. No such advice was required 
during the year.
Independence assessment by the 
Committee
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of 
the external auditor is not impaired due to the fact that 
the audit engagement partner rotation policy has been 
complied with; the level of fees paid for non-audit services 
was of a level that does not present any on-going threat 
to their independence and separate external firms are 
appointed for taxation advisory services.
In addition to the above, the Committee met with the 
external auditor and with the Head of Internal Audit 
without the presence of management during the year 
and I have had regular contact with the audit engagement 
partner during the year. Robert Walker also had two 
private meetings with the audit engagement partner 
during the year.
Re-appointment of the external auditor
The re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the Group’s 
external auditor (incumbent since the Company started 
trading in 1991) was reviewed during the year. The audit 
was put out to tender during 2012, with Ernst & Young 
chosen to continue with the audit services and KPMG 
appointed for taxation services, and the Group intends 
to put the audit out to tender at least every 10 years as 
required by the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Committee has assessed the performance and 
independence of the external auditor which underpins its 
recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders 
the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as auditor until the 
conclusion of the AGM in 2015. Full details are set out in 
the Notice convening the AGM on pages 119 to 122.
There are no contractual restrictions over choice of auditor.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
41 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   41 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
ROLE OF INTERNAL AUDIT
Internal audit has a Group-wide remit and is independent 
of its business operations. It undertakes an on-going 
programme to provide assurance on the adequacy of 
internal control and risk management processes across 
the Group’s operations. It is responsible for reviewing and 
reporting on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk 
management systems to the Committee and, ultimately, 
the Board. The Head of Internal Audit attends Committee 
meetings to present the findings of such reviews at 
regular intervals throughout the year and reports on 
internal audit’s performance against the agreed annual 
internal audit plan, such plan being agreed during the year 
by the Committee. 
EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK 
MANAGEMENT
The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal 
controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
It carries out such a review at least annually, covering 
all material controls including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems. 
The system of internal controls is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss.
Operating policies and controls are in place, and have 
been in place throughout the year under review, and 
cover a wide range of issues including financial reporting, 
capital expenditure, information technology, business 
continuity and management of employees. Detailed 
policies ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
including the consolidation process. The key elements 
of the Group’s on-going processes for the provision of 
effective internal control and risk management systems, 
in place throughout the year and at the date of this Report, 
include:
 ■ regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved 
for directors’ consideration;
 ■ regular management reporting, providing a balanced 
assessment of key risks and controls;
 ■ an annual Board review of corporate strategy, including 
a review of material business risks and uncertainties 
facing the business;
 ■ established organisational structure with clearly 
defined lines of responsibility and levels of authority;
 ■ an internal audit function which implements the 
annual internal audit plan and provides independent 
assurance to executive management, the Committee 
and the Board on the effectiveness of internal controls 
and risk management;
 ■ documented policies and procedures;
 ■ regular review by the Board of financial budgets, 
forecasts and covenants with performance reported 
to the Board monthly; and
 ■ a detailed investment process for major projects, 
including capital investment coupled with a post-
investment appraisal analysis.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control the Committee has:
 ■ received six-monthly self-assurance statements 
completed by key senior managers that controls 
and risk management processes in their business 
units have operated satisfactorily. These returns are 
reviewed in detail and challenged where appropriate 
by the Head of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary 
and the Group Financial Controller, who together 
compile and update a risk register to monitor all of 
the risks facing the business. The key risks are then 
summarised for review and approval by the Committee 
for use in the Annual Report and Accounts;
 ■ regularly reviewed the financial and accounting 
controls; 
 ■ reviewed the internal audit reports;
 ■ monitored management’s responsiveness to the 
findings and recommendations of the Head of Internal 
Audit; 
 ■ met with the Head of Internal Audit once during the 
year, without management being present to discuss 
their remit and any issues arising from internal audits 
carried out; and
 ■ decided to undertake a formal evaluation and 
independent assessment of the internal audit function 
in the forthcoming year.
In respect of Group financial reporting, the finance 
department is responsible for preparing the Group financial 
statements using a well-established consolidation process 
and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards. All 
financial information published by the Group is subject to 
approval by the Committee. 
There have been no changes in the Company’s internal 
control over financial reporting during the year under 
review that have materially affected, or are reasonably 
likely to materially affect, the Company’s control over 
financial reporting.
The Board, with advice from the Committee, is satisfied 
that an effective system of internal controls and risk 
management processes are in place which enable the 
Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks 
and which accord with the guidance of the Turnbull 
Committee on internal control updated by the FRC in 
2005. These processes have been in place since the start 
of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the 
accounts. Further details of risk management frameworks 
and specific material risks and uncertainties facing the 
business can be found on pages 25 to 29.
Audit Committee Report
42 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   42 10/12/2013   14:20:01 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION CODE 
OF CONDUCT
The risks of bribery, corruption, fraud or theft exist in 
every company. The Group is committed to conducting 
its business with the highest degree of integrity. This 
commitment includes a zero tolerance approach towards 
all forms of bribery, corruption, fraud and theft and 
procedures within the Company have been designed 
to minimise these risks. The Group has in place an anti-
bribery and corruption code of conduct which has been 
formally approved by the Board and extends to all of the 
Group’s business dealings and transactions involving its 
directors, officers, employees or third parties including, 
but not limited to, agents, advisers, contractors, Publicans 
or suppliers engaged in business with the Group. 
Engaging in fraud, bribery or corruption is unlawful and 
any employee, director or officer found to have breached 
the code of conduct will be liable to disciplinary action 
which may result in dismissal or other serious sanctions. 
Breaches of the code of conduct by third parties may 
result in immediate termination for breach of all contracts 
with the Group. A copy of the code of conduct is available 
on the Company’s website. There have been no recorded 
instances of bribery or corruption during the period under 
review.
WHISTLEBLOWING
The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which 
encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal 
acts or omissions or matters of similar concern (whether 
in the UK or elsewhere) by other employees or former 
employees, contractors, Publicans, suppliers or advisers 
using internal mechanisms for reporting. The policy 
acts as a mechanism to report any ethical wrongdoing 
or malpractice or suspicion which may amount to 
ethical wrongdoing or malpractice. Examples of ethical 
wrongdoing or malpractice include bribery, corruption, 
fraud, dishonesty and illegal practices which may 
endanger employees or other parties. There have been no 
instances of whistleblowing during the year under review.
ACCOUNTABILITY
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s financial 
position and prospects. The responsibilities of the 
directors and external auditor are set out on pages 62 
and 112. As set out in the Directors’ Report, the directors 
consider the Company’s business is a going concern.
D O Maloney 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
18 November 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
43 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   43 10/12/2013   14:20:02 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 
Just as the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring 
the performance and condition of the Group’s financial 
and physical assets, so the Nomination Committee 
(the Committee) is responsible for monitoring the 
performance, appropriateness and future succession of 
the Company’s executive and Board talent. Reflecting this 
importance, and as a result of a heavy workload dealing 
with both executive and non-executive succession, the 
Committee met five times this year. 
In November we announced Ted Tuppen’s retirement 
as Chief Executive after over 20 years of outstanding 
service; and the appointment of Simon Townsend as his 
successor. We also made changes to the Board’s non-
executive membership (see below).
Robert Walker 
Chairman, Nomination Committee
COMPOSITION
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the majority of the members of the Committee were 
independent non-executive directors. During the year, the 
Committee was chaired by myself with Susan Murray, 
David Maloney, David Harding (until his retirement from 
the Board on 31 January 2013), and Peter Baguley (from 
his appointment on 31 January 2013) as members of the 
Committee. 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The principal role of the Committee is to identify and 
nominate for Board approval, candidates to fill Board 
vacancies as and when they arise. The Committee does 
this proactively, recognising it is important to plan Board 
succession well in advance, and to ensure that the 
Company’s Board and executive leadership skills are fully 
aligned to the Company’s long-term strategy. 
In planning these appointments, the Committee prepares 
a full description of the role, skills and capabilities required; 
appoints external search firms, each time reviewing 
available options, and ensuring that the firm selected has 
signed up to the relevant industry codes (for example, on 
diversity); and finally, engages from time-to-time with the 
Group’s major shareholders on future skills requirements 
and ideas for potential candidates. 
In addition, the Committee takes care to ensure that there 
is a continuous pipeline of high-performing and executive 
talent beneath Board level. In this sense the Nomination 
Committee provides a broader HR role.
What the Committee did in 2013
The main focus of the Committee’s work in 2013 included: 
 ■ selecting a high-calibre candidate to succeed Ted 
Tuppen as Chief Executive, given his desire to 
retire. After discussion of alternatives, Heidrick & 
Struggles, an external recruitment firm who have no 
other connection with the Company, were selected 
to conduct an extensive search and benchmarking, 
including interviews, with both external and internal 
candidates. As a result, the decision was taken 
in November 2013 to appoint Simon Townsend, 
currently the Company’s Chief Operating Officer, as 
Chief Executive with effect from 6 February 2014. 
Simon will work closely with Ted in ensuring that the 
management transition is both smooth and calibrated, 
and that there is no disruption in the running of the 
business;
 ■ completing the search for a non-executive director 
with extensive experience of retail and commercial 
property, culminating in the appointment of Peter 
Baguley, formerly property director of Sainsbury and 
Boots, on 31 January 2013;
 ■ recommending the appointment of David Maloney, 
currently Chairman of the Audit Committee, as Senior 
Independent Director in January 2013 to replace David 
Harding. David Maloney has been a member of the 
Board for five years;
 ■ scoping out the brief for the replacement of 
Susan Murray as non-executive director. Following 
discussions with our leading shareholders, this brief 
will seek a candidate with substantial customer 
service and strategic skills;
 ■ reviewing the senior management structure and talent 
below Board level, leading to the recommendation not 
to replace Simon Townsend’s current position as Chief 
Operating Officer;
 ■ working with Heidrick & Struggles to create detailed 
plans for the personal development of the senior 
management team, that will report to Simon 
Townsend as future Chief Executive; and
 ■ finally, reviewing the Committee’s terms of reference, 
and conducting the annual review of the Committee’s 
performance. 
DIVERSITY
Whilst we pursue diversity, including gender diversity, 
throughout the business, and the Board endorses the 
aspirations of the Davies Review on Women on Boards, 
we are not committing to any specific targets. Instead, 
we will seek to use executive search firms who have 
signed up to the voluntary code of conduct setting out 
the seven key principles of best practice to abide by 
throughout the recruitment process and we will continue 
to follow a policy of appointing talented people at every 
level to deliver high performance. We will also ensure that 
our development in this area is consistent with our own 
strategic objectives and is enhancing in terms of Board 
effectiveness.
R M Walker 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
18 November 2013
Nomination Committee Report
44 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   44 10/12/2013   14:20:02 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Information not subject to audit: 
ANNUAL STATEMENT
Dear Fellow Shareholders, 
I am pleased to introduce our Remuneration Report for the 2013 financial year. This Remuneration Report has been 
prepared in accordance with the new regulations, introduced by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, 
which govern the way directors’ remuneration is voted upon and reported on. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy will 
be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM, and the Annual Report on Remuneration and this 
Annual Statement to an advisory vote.
For the year under review, the business has made good progress, particularly given the challenging trading conditions 
including the adverse weather at the beginning of the year and the impact from the failure of our wines and spirits 
distributor. As communicated previously to shareholders, Enterprise’s key strategic objectives for the 2013 financial 
year were to focus on improving like–for–like growth in net income and to reduce net debt through the management of 
cash and disposal of underperforming pubs. In spite of the challenging conditions the business has continued to make 
progress, delivering like–for–like net income growth in our final quarter. The Company has also successfully delivered 
on the disposal plan and that, coupled with the issuance of a new convertible bond, has resulted in a substantial 
reduction in the Group’s bank debt position. These achievements have been reflected in Enterprise’s share price, which 
has made significant gains over the year. 
This performance has generated annual bonus payouts in the range of 29% to 31% of base salary. The performance 
and matching awards granted under the long–term incentive plan (LTIP) in 2010 failed to meet the threshold total 
shareholder return (TSR) target and lapsed in January 2013. The LTIP awards granted in 2011, which are based on TSR 
performance to January 2014, may not meet the minimum vesting target. 
Ted Tuppen will be retiring from the Board at the AGM and Simon Townsend will be taking on the role of Chief 
Executive from that date. Going forward there will be a reduction in the number of executive directors from three to 
two. Ted will continue to be employed by the Company until at least 19 May 2014. During the year under review, and 
as part of succession planning, the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) reviewed the appropriate package for a 
new Chief Executive Officer and appropriate arrangements for the possible retirement of the incumbent officer. Details 
of the implications of these changes on their remuneration arrangements are set out on page 61 of the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
We are not proposing any major changes to the remuneration policy for the 2014 financial year. However, during 
the course of the coming year, the Committee intends to review the annual bonus and long–term incentive scheme 
arrangements as the current plans are due to expire in 2015. 
The Committee encourages dialogue with the Company’s shareholders and will consult with major shareholders ahead 
of any significant future changes to the remuneration policy. We were delighted that the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report received a 99.6% vote in favour at the last AGM. Shareholders are invited to approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy, Annual Report on Remuneration and this Annual Statement at the AGM on 6 February 2014, details of which are 
set out on pages 119 to 124. 
Susan Murray 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
18 November 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). This report 
sets out the Company’s current remuneration policy for 2014 and beyond. A binding resolution to approve this report 
will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. In terms of an approved policy, it will take effect from the date it 
is approved by shareholders.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
45 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   45 10/12/2013   14:20:02 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on the: 
 ■ general policy on executive and senior management remuneration; 
 ■ overall remuneration packages for executive directors including base salary, pensions, benefits and  
performance-related short–term and long–term incentives; 
 ■ Chairman’s remuneration; and 
 ■ design and operation of the Company’s share incentive plans.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and operates within agreed terms 
of reference, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website or on request from the Company Secretary. 
Details of the members of the Committee and of the advisers to the Committee are provided in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on pages 51 and 52. 
Policy on executive director remuneration 
The Committee regularly reviews the executive directors’ remuneration packages to ensure that they take account 
of the Company’s specific circumstances and are aligned to the Company’s key strategic objectives as set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 02 to 29. In formulating the remuneration policy, the Committee: 
 ■ considers market practice (both in terms of the size and structure of executive remuneration); 
 ■ takes into consideration pay practices elsewhere within the Company; 
 ■ encourages open dialogue and consults with major shareholders when looking to make material changes to the 
remuneration policy; and 
 ■ ensures, in line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure, that the 
incentive structures for executive directors do not raise any environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, 
there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account ESG matters or indeed any 
other operational/financial risks that relate to the Company’s business. 
The Committee continues to believe that the existing policy and approach (described more fully in the policy table) 
allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the key individuals required to lead the business and remains both 
relevant and appropriate in terms of the balance between: 
 ■ fixed and variable pay, ensuring a significant proportion of the overall remuneration package is performance–related; 
 ■ short–term and long–term incentive pay; and 
 ■ cash–based and share–based remuneration.
The Committee also believes that the performance–related elements provide rewards which reflect an appropriate 
balance between the performance of the Group and individual performance and aligns the rewards of executive 
directors with the long–term interests of the shareholders and the Company’s strategic goals. 
How the views of shareholders are taken into account
The Committee takes into account the views of shareholders. When any significant changes are proposed to the 
remuneration policy, the Committee Chairman will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a 
meeting to discuss these. Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last year’s remuneration report 
and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on 
page 60. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
46 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   46 10/12/2013   14:20:02 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
How employees’ pay is taken into account 
The Committee liaises with senior managers in the Group to ensure pay and employment conditions (e.g. base salary 
levels and increases, pension provision, the structure of annual bonuses and long–term incentive provision) of the wider 
Group as a whole are taken into account when framing the executive remuneration policy. However, the Committee 
has not specifically consulted with employees when drawing up the policy or used any remuneration comparison 
measures between directors and employees. 
Remuneration policy at a glance
The charts below illustrate the potential future remuneration of the new Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
based on the arrangements that may apply from the date of the 2014 AGM (the date that an approved remuneration 
policy would take effect). They show that the performance–related elements of the package comprise a very significant 
portion of the executive directors’ total remuneration. 
£601,000
£1,061,000
£1,751,000
£496,000
£871,000
£1,433,000
Below Target On-Target Maximum Below Target On-Target Maximum
Simon Townsend Neil Smith
Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP Total
56% 34%
56%
34%
22%
22%
22%
22%
26%
26%
40%
40%
£1,800,000
£1,600,000
£1,400,000
£1,200,000
£1,000,000
£800,000
£600,000
£400,000
£200,000
£0
Reward scenarios
Below target On–target performance Maximum
Fixed pay Salary + benefits + 25% of salary pension contribution
Annual bonus No bonus payout 50% of salary award 100% of salary award
LTIP & matching shares No LTIP or matching shares 
vesting
50% of salary performance 
share award and a 1:1 match 
on the deferred bonus 
100% of salary performance 
share award and a 2:1 match 
on the deferred bonus 
(maximum investment capped 
at 25% of salary)
The charts illustrate the potential rewards available under the proposed remuneration policy for financial year 2014 
as summarised in the table above. The values assume a constant share price and do not take into account possible 
share price appreciation or dividends/dividend equivalents that may be received on the share awards and therefore 
the amounts that ultimately vest to directors under the deferred bonus, performance and matching share arrangement 
may be higher or lower than that set out above. The potential monetary rewards available for ‘on–target’ performance 
under the annual bonus and LTIP are provided for illustration only and do not reflect formal policy decisions that these 
amounts are received.
Salary levels (on which other elements of the package are calculated) are based on those applying from 6 February 
2014 onwards (£460,000 for Simon Townsend and £375,000 for Neil Smith). The value of taxable benefits is based on 
the cost of supplying those benefits (as disclosed) for the year ended 30 September 2013. The executive directors can 
also participate in all employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees. The value that may be received 
under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits. For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating 
in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
47 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   47 10/12/2013   14:20:02 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
POLICY TABLE
Remuneration 
element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics 
Base salary To attract and retain key 
individuals. 
Salaries are reviewed annually, with any changes normally taking effect from  
1 January each year.
When considering salary levels and whether any increase 
should be offered, the Committee takes into account a variety of 
factors including: company performance, individual performance, 
experience and responsibilities, relevant market information and 
the level of increase being offered to the wider workforce. 
In terms of wider market practice, the Committee looks at pay 
practices in two comparator groups: (i) a group of listed companies 
in the travel and leisure sector, and (ii) a broader group of listed 
companies in the wider market, both groups comprising companies 
of a broadly similar size to the Group.
Details of the current salaries for the executive directors are set out 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Not applicable.
Benefits To provide a market 
competitive reward 
package and promote the 
well–being of employees.
Benefits normally comprise a car allowance or use of a motor car, fuel, private 
medical, travel, accident & legal expenses insurance, D&O insurance and life 
assurance. The benefit provision is reviewed periodically.
No maximum value is set but the Committee periodically monitors 
the overall cost of the benefits package. 
Not applicable.
SIP and 
SAYE
All employee offers to 
motivate and to facilitate 
share ownership.
The SIP and SAYE schemes are reviewed annually and if offered are offered to all 
eligible employees. 
An executive director can participate by paying up to £250 per 
month (SAYE) and £1,500 per annum (SIP) into HMRC approved 
schemes. Under the SIP the company may match the shares up to 
a 2 for 1 basis or such other basis as may be approved by HMRC. 
Matching shares granted under the SIP are subject to a 
holding period and continued employment.
Pension To aid retention and to 
remain competitive in the 
market place. 
Contribution to a personal pension arrangement or cash in lieu of pension by way 
of a salary supplement (or a combination thereof). 
25% of salary. Not applicable.
Annual 
bonus plan 
To motivate executives 
and incentivise the 
achievement of key 
financial and strategic 
goals and targets over the 
financial year. 
A maximum of 60% of the bonus is paid in cash and at least 40% in shares, which 
are deferred for 3 years. 
Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of 
material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and/or 
poor information used when calculating the reward outcome. 
The maximum bonus potential is 125% of salary for the Chief 
Executive and 100% of salary for the other executive directors. 
However (as has been the case since 2010) the current intention is 
to limit bonuses to 100% of salary for all executive directors. 
The bonus is normally based on a mix of financial and 
individual strategic targets, with financial performance 
normally accounting for a majority of the overall bonus 
opportunity. No bonuses will be payable unless a minimum 
level of financial performance has been achieved. 
Notwithstanding the achievement of the performance 
targets, any bonus payable will be determined by the 
Committee in accordance with the relevant plan rules, 
including the Committee’s right to exercise its discretion 
fairly and reasonably in any circumstances which the 
Committee considers it appropriate to do so. 
Details of the performance targets set for the year under 
review and performance against them are provided on page 
53 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, together with 
details on the bonus metrics to be used for the forthcoming 
financial year.
LTIP To motivate executives 
and incentivise delivery 
of performance over the 
long–term and to facilitate 
share ownership. 
Annual awards of performance shares which are based on performance over 3 
years and vest after 3, 4 and 5 years in equal tranches. 
In addition, investment shares (worth up to 25% of salary) received by the 
executive directors through the annual bonus plan or acquired through other funds 
are eligible for a matching share award. 
The performance and matching awards will be granted in accordance with the rules 
of the LTIP , as approved by shareholders, and the discretions contained therein. A 
copy of the rules is available on request from the Company Secretary. 
Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of 
material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and/or 
poor information used when calculating the reward outcome.
The maximum award for performance shares under the plan rules 
is 150% of salary. However, the proposed grant for 2014 is 100% 
of salary. 
Up to 25% of salary may be invested in shares and matched on the 
basis of two matching shares for each investment share.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on the vested shares. 
The performance and matching awards are subject to a 
relative TSR condition which measures performance against 
a comparator group of companies. No awards vest for 
below median performance and a sliding scale of targets 
is applied for performance above median. In addition to the 
TSR condition, vesting is also dependent on satisfactory 
underlying financial performance over the performance 
period. Further details on the performance targets for the 
existing performance and matching awards and the awards 
to be granted in the forthcoming financial year are set out 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 56 and 61 .
Chairman 
and non–
executive 
directors’ 
fees
To attract and retain non–
executive directors of the 
right calibre.
The Chairman and non–executive directors’ remuneration takes the form solely of 
fees.
The Chairman’s fee is approved by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Committee.
Fees for the non–executive directors are approved by the Board, on the 
recommendation of the Chairman and the executive directors. The non–executive 
directors are not involved in any discussion or decisions about their own 
remuneration.
Additional fees, over and above the base fee for the non–executive directors, are 
payable to the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and to the 
Senior Independent Director. 
Details of the current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 52. The fee levels are reviewed periodically 
taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of 
the role and fees paid in other companies of comparable size and 
complexity.
Not applicable.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
48 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   48 10/12/2013   14:20:02 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
POLICY TABLE
Remuneration 
element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics 
Base salary To attract and retain key 
individuals. 
Salaries are reviewed annually, with any changes normally taking effect from  
1 January each year.
When considering salary levels and whether any increase 
should be offered, the Committee takes into account a variety of 
factors including: company performance, individual performance, 
experience and responsibilities, relevant market information and 
the level of increase being offered to the wider workforce. 
In terms of wider market practice, the Committee looks at pay 
practices in two comparator groups: (i) a group of listed companies 
in the travel and leisure sector, and (ii) a broader group of listed 
companies in the wider market, both groups comprising companies 
of a broadly similar size to the Group.
Details of the current salaries for the executive directors are set out 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Not applicable.
Benefits To provide a market 
competitive reward 
package and promote the 
well–being of employees.
Benefits normally comprise a car allowance or use of a motor car, fuel, private 
medical, travel, accident & legal expenses insurance, D&O insurance and life 
assurance. The benefit provision is reviewed periodically.
No maximum value is set but the Committee periodically monitors 
the overall cost of the benefits package. 
Not applicable.
SIP and 
SAYE
All employee offers to 
motivate and to facilitate 
share ownership.
The SIP and SAYE schemes are reviewed annually and if offered are offered to all 
eligible employees. 
An executive director can participate by paying up to £250 per 
month (SAYE) and £1,500 per annum (SIP) into HMRC approved 
schemes. Under the SIP the company may match the shares up to 
a 2 for 1 basis or such other basis as may be approved by HMRC. 
Matching shares granted under the SIP are subject to a 
holding period and continued employment.
Pension To aid retention and to 
remain competitive in the 
market place. 
Contribution to a personal pension arrangement or cash in lieu of pension by way 
of a salary supplement (or a combination thereof). 
25% of salary. Not applicable.
Annual 
bonus plan 
To motivate executives 
and incentivise the 
achievement of key 
financial and strategic 
goals and targets over the 
financial year. 
A maximum of 60% of the bonus is paid in cash and at least 40% in shares, which 
are deferred for 3 years. 
Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of 
material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and/or 
poor information used when calculating the reward outcome. 
The maximum bonus potential is 125% of salary for the Chief 
Executive and 100% of salary for the other executive directors. 
However (as has been the case since 2010) the current intention is 
to limit bonuses to 100% of salary for all executive directors. 
The bonus is normally based on a mix of financial and 
individual strategic targets, with financial performance 
normally accounting for a majority of the overall bonus 
opportunity. No bonuses will be payable unless a minimum 
level of financial performance has been achieved. 
Notwithstanding the achievement of the performance 
targets, any bonus payable will be determined by the 
Committee in accordance with the relevant plan rules, 
including the Committee’s right to exercise its discretion 
fairly and reasonably in any circumstances which the 
Committee considers it appropriate to do so. 
Details of the performance targets set for the year under 
review and performance against them are provided on page 
53 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, together with 
details on the bonus metrics to be used for the forthcoming 
financial year.
LTIP To motivate executives 
and incentivise delivery 
of performance over the 
long–term and to facilitate 
share ownership. 
Annual awards of performance shares which are based on performance over 3 
years and vest after 3, 4 and 5 years in equal tranches. 
In addition, investment shares (worth up to 25% of salary) received by the 
executive directors through the annual bonus plan or acquired through other funds 
are eligible for a matching share award. 
The performance and matching awards will be granted in accordance with the rules 
of the LTIP , as approved by shareholders, and the discretions contained therein. A 
copy of the rules is available on request from the Company Secretary. 
Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of 
material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and/or 
poor information used when calculating the reward outcome.
The maximum award for performance shares under the plan rules 
is 150% of salary. However, the proposed grant for 2014 is 100% 
of salary. 
Up to 25% of salary may be invested in shares and matched on the 
basis of two matching shares for each investment share.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on the vested shares. 
The performance and matching awards are subject to a 
relative TSR condition which measures performance against 
a comparator group of companies. No awards vest for 
below median performance and a sliding scale of targets 
is applied for performance above median. In addition to the 
TSR condition, vesting is also dependent on satisfactory 
underlying financial performance over the performance 
period. Further details on the performance targets for the 
existing performance and matching awards and the awards 
to be granted in the forthcoming financial year are set out 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 56 and 61 .
Chairman 
and non–
executive 
directors’ 
fees
To attract and retain non–
executive directors of the 
right calibre.
The Chairman and non–executive directors’ remuneration takes the form solely of 
fees.
The Chairman’s fee is approved by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Committee.
Fees for the non–executive directors are approved by the Board, on the 
recommendation of the Chairman and the executive directors. The non–executive 
directors are not involved in any discussion or decisions about their own 
remuneration.
Additional fees, over and above the base fee for the non–executive directors, are 
payable to the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and to the 
Senior Independent Director. 
Details of the current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 52. The fee levels are reviewed periodically 
taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of 
the role and fees paid in other companies of comparable size and 
complexity.
Not applicable.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
49 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   49 10/12/2013   14:20:03 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Notes to the policy table:
Choice of performance measures
The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and individual strategic targets. The measures are based on the 
financial, operational and strategic priorities of the business and may vary from year to year as appropriate to reflect 
the changing needs of the business. A sliding scale of targets is set for the financial measures so as to drive significant 
improvements in business performance.
TSR has been chosen as the performance measure for the performance shares and matching awards as it aligns the 
interests of management with the returns received by shareholders. The TSR target has been set so as to require 
out–performance compared with the relevant comparator group.
Interaction with the policy for employee pay
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the executive directors (as set  
out above) compared with that for other employees within the organisation. This reflects differing levels of seniority 
and responsibility. For example, there is an increased emphasis on performance-related pay for executive directors 
through a higher annual bonus opportunity and participation in the LTIP . This aligns the interests of directors with  
the long–term performance of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
Service contracts
It is the Company’s policy that the period of notice for executive directors will not exceed 12 months and accordingly, 
the employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on 12 months notice by either party. The Company 
may terminate a director’s employment without notice or compensation in the event of gross misconduct. 
In the event of a director’s departure, the Company’s policy on termination payments is as follows:
 ■ the Company will pay any amounts it is required to make in accordance with or in settlement of a director’s 
statutory employment rights;
 ■ the Company may pay salary, benefits and pension in lieu of notice and observe the other contractual entitlements 
of a director;
 ■ the Company will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is warranted in each individual case and the Company 
will seek to apply the principles of mitigation to any proposed payment;
 ■ there is no entitlement to bonus paid (or associated deferred shares) following notice of termination (or cessation 
of employment) and ‘bad leavers’ will not receive any bonus in such circumstances. However, the Committee’s 
normal policy is that where the individual is considered a ‘good leaver’, a performance–related and time pro–rated 
bonus may be paid. The performance measures used to determine the bonus payment may be on a different basis 
to that applying to the other executive directors depending on the timing and circumstances of the director’s 
departure. Time pro–rating will be based on the proportion of the bonus year for which the individual is employed 
and the bonus (if any) will be paid at the normal time. If at the time the bonus is paid, the individual is under notice 
or has left employment, all of the bonus may be payable in cash;
 ■ in the event of a director’s departure, any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant 
plan rules. The default treatment under the LTIP and Deferred Share Award is that any outstanding awards will 
lapse on cessation of employment. However, in certain prescribed circumstances such as death, injury, retirement, 
transfer of the employing company or business out of the Group, and any other circumstances at the discretion 
of the Committee (taking into account the individual’s performance and reasons for their departure) ‘good leaver’ 
status may be applied. A good leaver’s unvested deferred shares and LTIP awards (where the performance period 
has already ended) will fully vest on leaving and be exercisable for 30 months (but no later than the last date a 
remaining employee could exercise the award). A good leaver will normally receive a pro–rated proportion of any 
outstanding LTIP awards (pro–rated from the date of grant to the date of cessation of employment), normally 
subject to performance over the usual 3 year period and to be exercisable within 30 months of vesting (but no 
later than the last date a remaining employee could exercise the award). Exceptionally the Committee may decide 
to measure performance over a shorter period to the end of employment and may waive in whole, or in part, pro–
rating, but this would only be in exceptional circumstances;
 ■ no LTIP awards will be made to someone who is due to leave within 6 months after the date the awards would be 
granted; and
 ■ the Company may enable the provision of outplacement services to a departing director, where appropriate.
The contracts of the executive directors do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control 
of the Company or for liquidated damages. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
50 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   50 10/12/2013   14:20:03 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new executive director will be set in accordance with the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy as set out on page 46, subject to the discretions set out below. The maximum level of variable 
remuneration that may be offered under the approved policy is 325% of salary. In relation to the bonus, different 
targets may be set to those applying to the other executive directors in the first year of appointment, to reflect the 
point in the year when the individual joins and their specific responsibilities.
In addition, the Committee may offer further cash, benefit and/or share–based elements (including awards under 
9.4.2(R) of the Listing Rules) as necessary to secure an appointment – any such payments would take account of the 
remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer, for example, reflecting the nature, time horizons and 
performance requirements attaching to that remuneration. Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the 
time of appointment. 
For an internal appointment, any variable pay or benefit element granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to 
pay out or be provided according to its terms. In addition, any other on–going remuneration obligations existing prior to 
appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the next AGM. 
The salary level for a new appointment will be set taking into account the individual’s experience, the nature of the role 
being offered and their existing remuneration package.
Relocation expenses or allowances may be paid as appropriate.
Chairman and non–executive directors
All non–executive directors have letters of appointment, the terms of which take into account best practice. Their 
respective appointments continue on an annual basis from AGM to AGM, subject to re–election. There are no special 
provisions in the non–executive directors’ letters of appointment for compensation in the event of loss of office. A 
summary of the letters of appointment for non–executive directors is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration 
on page 60.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration 
reports. Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise 
as required under the regulations.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the Company’s remuneration policy for directors was implemented 
during the year under review. This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium–sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (as amended) and 9.8.8R of the Listing Rules. An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. The information on pages 52 to 58 as indicated has been audited. 
Composition of the committee
The Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the year in accordance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee comprised the following non–executive directors: 
 ■ Susan Murray – Chairman of the Committee; 
 ■ David Maloney; 
 ■ David Harding – until 31 January 2013; and 
 ■ Peter Baguley – from 31 January 2013.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided. The Company’s 
Chairman and Chief Executive attend meetings by invitation of the Committee except where their own remuneration 
is being discussed. The Committee receives assistance from the Company Secretary as appropriate and the Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
51 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   51 10/12/2013   14:20:03 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Advisers
During the year under review, the Committee received external advice on directors’ remuneration matters from Aon 
plc, operating through the brand New Bridge Street (NBS). Aon plc did not provide any other services to the Company 
during the year under review. 
NBS is appointed by the Committee as its independent adviser. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ 
Code of Conduct. During the year, the Chairman of the Committee considered NBS’s performance, in terms of the 
quality and independence of its advice, the potential for conflicts of interest (which are actively managed within Aon 
plc) and its knowledge and understanding of market practice. Having reviewed these factors, the Committee chose to 
retain NBS as its adviser.
The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee during the year were £67 ,173. The fees charged 
for major projects are normally negotiated in advance of the work being undertaken. However, an element of the fees 
relates to sundry on–going advice, in line with NBS’s role to provide on–going support to the Committee over the entire 
remuneration year and are predominantly charged on a ‘time spent’ basis. 
Fees for the chairman and non–executive directors
The fee policy for the Chairman and non–executive directors for the year under review was as follows:
 ■ Chairman – £200,000
 ■ Base Board fee – £55,500
 ■ Additional fees for chairing the Audit or Remuneration Committee – £6,000
 ■ Additional fees for the Senior Independent Directorship – £2,000
The following information has been subject to audit:
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES DURING 2013 
The table below sets out the remuneration received/receivable in relation to the year ended 30 September 2013. 
Base salary/
fees
Taxable 
benefits (i) Pension (ii)
 Annual 
bonus (iii)
Performance 
shares (iv)
Matching 
shares (iv)
SIP matching 
shares (v) Total
£000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executive director
T ed T uppen 640 640 29 27 160 160 192 329 – – – – 3 3 1,024 1,159
Simon T ownsend 384 384 26 26 96 96 111 186 – – – – 3 3 620 695
Neil Smith 355 350 27 26 89 88 110 187 – – – – – – 581 651
T otal 1,379 1,374 82 79 345 344 413 702 – – – – 6 6 2,225 2,505
Chairman and non–executive director
Robert Walker (vi) 200 109 – – – – – – – – – – – – 200 109
Hubert Reid (vii) – 118 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 118
David Harding (viii) 19 58 – – – – – – – – – – – – 19 58
Susan Murray 62 62 – – – – – – – – – – – – 62 62
David Maloney 63 62 – – – – – – – – – – – – 63 62
Peter Baguley (ix) 37 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 37 –
T otal 381 409 – – – – – – – – – – – 381 409
(i) Benefits include car allowances or use of a motor car, fuel, private medical, travel, accident & legal expenses insurances.
(ii) This comprises either direct contributions to personal pension arrangements or cash in lieu of their pension contributions (these 
sums are not included in any bonus or share incentive award calculations). Of the amounts shown, the element in the year 
relating to salary supplements in lieu of contributions are £110,000 (2012: £110,000) for Ted Tuppen, £46,000 (2012: £46,000) for 
Simon Townsend and £45,976 (2012: £45,000) for Neil Smith.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
52 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   52 10/12/2013   14:20:03 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
(iii) This relates to the bonus award for 2013. The bonuses were payable based on EPS performance and individual strategic targets. 
Bonus payouts ranged from 29% to 31% of salary. The bonuses are payable in a mixture of cash and deferred shares. With the 
agreement of the Committee, Ted Tuppen and Simon Townsend have elected to take 100% of the bonus as deferred shares 
(2012: 100%), with Neil Smith electing to take 60% cash and 40% as deferred shares (2012: 60% and 40%). The deferred shares 
vest after three years and are not subject to any further performance conditions. Details of the awards made under the Bonus 
Plan are shown on pages 53 and 54. 
(iv) The performance period for the 2009 performance and matching awards ended on 7 January 2013. The award was subject to a 
TSR performance condition and Enterprise’s TSR underperformed that of the FTSE250, therefore the awards lapsed.
(v) The SIP is an all employee share plan under which the Company matched on a two for one basis shares purchased up to a value 
of £1,500. The two for one basis used in 2013 values the matching shares at the date of grant at £3,000. Continued employment 
and a three year holding period applies to the matching element. 
(vi) Robert Walker was appointed to the Board on 9 February 2012. 
(vii) Hubert Reid retired from the Board on 31 March 2012. 
(viii) David Harding retired from the Board on 31 January 2013.
(ix) Peter Baguley was appointed to the Board on 31 January 2013.
Annual bonus 2013
The annual bonus plan (the Bonus Plan) has operated in its current form since 2005. Awards under the Bonus Plan 
are subject to demanding performance targets. For the year under review, 80% of the executive directors’ bonus was 
subject to a sliding scale of challenging annual adjusted basic EPS targets, with 20% subject to challenging individual 
strategic targets, although no bonus is payable under this element of the Bonus Plan unless a threshold level of 
adjusted EPS performance is delivered. 
60% of any bonus earned is paid in cash, with at least 40% deferred into shares (executive directors can choose to 
voluntarily defer more of the award into shares if they so wish). 
A ‘clawback’ provision has been established under which the Committee can seek appropriate means of redress in 
the event of material misconduct, material misstatement of results, and an error in the calculation or due to poor 
information used when calculating the reward outcome. Redress can be sought through: (i) the lapsing of unvested 
Deferred Share Awards, which may result in a corresponding lapse of matching share awards under the LTIP; (ii) a 
reduction in future bonus payouts; and (iii) the reclaim of previously paid bonuses (net of tax). 
The adjusted EPS targets for the Bonus Plan were set at the beginning of the year and reflected the outlook at that 
time, taking into account the Company’s plans to generate cash and pay down debt. 
The targets for the proportion of the bonus based on EPS are set out in the table below. For performance between the 
EPS targets specified, a straight–line sliding scale applies. 
Award level
(% salary) EPS
Below threshold 0% Less than 19.0p
Threshold 16% 19.0p
Target 40% 19.6p
Maximum 80% 22.3p
Actual Performance 16% 19.0p
Each executive director was given a number of different personal and strategic objectives individually tailored to 
their role and the needs of the business in the year now under review. Different weightings were applied to each 
objective. The precise objectives and weightings are considered by the Company to be commercially sensitive. In 
summary the objectives included: property management (development of the portfolio, delivery of growth and return 
on capital), pub operations (like-for-like net income growth, service culture and compliance), capital structure (strategy 
for debt reduction and cash management), commercial (customer interfaces and margin management) and people 
(development of the senior team). 
The achievements against objectives were considered carefully by the Committee and weightings given to each 
individual component. In total, payments of between 13% and 15% of salary were generated (out of a maximum of 
20% of salary). 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
53 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   53 10/12/2013   14:20:03 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The total bonuses awarded for the year (out of a maximum bonus potential of 100% of salary) were as follows:
T ed T uppen 30% of salary
Simon T ownsend 29% of salary
Neil Smith 31% of salary
With the agreement of the Committee, Ted Tuppen and Simon Townsend have elected to take 100% of the bonus as 
deferred shares, with Neil Smith electing to take 60% cash and 40% as deferred shares.
Deferred share awards
Details of the shares awarded under the Bonus Plan to executive directors during the year under review and previous 
years are set out in the table below. 
Name/Plan year 
Date of 
grant 
At 1 Oct 
2012 Granted 
At 30 Sept 
2013 
Face value 
at grant 
£000 (i) 
Exercisable/holding 
period 
From       To 
T ed T uppen
2010 10/12/2010 535,317 – 535,317 558 10/12/2013 10/06/2014 
2011 12/12/2011 739,209 – 739,209 243 12/12/2014 12/06/2015 
2012 12/12/2012 431,140
(ii)
– 431,140 329 12/12/2015 12/06/2016 
2013 13/11/2013 – 132,871
(iii)
132,871 192 13/11/2016 13/05/2017
Total 1,705,666 132,871 1,838,537 1,322
Simon T ownsend
2010 10/12/2010 317 ,508 – 317 ,508 331 10/12/2013 10/06/2014 
2011 12/12/2011 443,525 – 443,525 146 12/12/2014 12/06/2015 
2012 12/12/2012 243,585 
(ii) 
– 243,585 186 12/12/2015 12/06/2016 
2013 13/11/2013 – 77 ,065
(iii)
77 ,065 111 13/11/2016 13/05/2017
Total 1,004,618 77 ,065 1,081,683 774
Neil Smith
2011 12/12/2011 425,531 – 425,531 140 12/12/2014 12/06/2015 
2012 12/12/2012 97 ,981
(ii) 
– 97 ,981 75 12/12/2015 12/06/2016 
2013 13/11/2013 – 30,463 
(iii)
30,463 44 13/11/2016 13/05/2017
Total 523,512 30,463 553,975 259
(i) Face value is calculated as the value of the shares on the respective date of grant of each award, except as noted in (iii) below. 
(ii) This reflects the actual number of shares granted on 12 December 2012. As explained in the 2012 Remuneration Report, this 
figure was previously based on an estimated market value of shares. 
(iii) The share price at which the number of deferred shares granted under the Bonus Plan is calculated will not be confirmed 
until after the date of approval of the accounts. The number of deferred shares awarded for the 2013 financial year is therefore 
estimated by using the mid–market price of the shares on 30 September 2013, being 144.50 pence. The number of shares 
granted along with the grant and exercise dates will therefore be revised to reflect the result on the actual date of grant. 
£1 in aggregate is payable on the exercise of each year’s award under the Bonus Plan.
54 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   54 10/12/2013   14:20:04 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Long–term incentive plan
The LTIP has been operated in its current form since 2005. Under the LTIP , two types of award can be made: 
 ■ an award of ‘performance shares’, worth up to 150% of salary each year; and 
 ■ an award of ‘matching shares’ linked to the co–investment of up to 25% of salary in ‘investment shares’, which are 
then matched on a 2:1 basis. 
Shares that count as ‘investment shares’ are: 
 ■ shares subject to a Deferred Share Award under the Bonus Plan; and 
 ■ shares acquired by participants using their cash bonus or other funds, up to a maximum of 25% of salary. 
Details of conditional awards of shares made under the LTIP during the year under review are set out in the table 
below. 
Name/ 
Plan year Date of grant 
As at 
1 Oct 
2012 
Awarded 
performance 
shares 
Awarded 
matching 
shares Vested Lapsed 
As at 
30 Sept 
2013 
Face 
value at 
grant
£000 (iv) 
Exercisable 
From      To 
T ed T uppen 
2009 08/01/2010
(i)
838,425 – – – 838,425 – – 08/01/2013 08/01/2016 
2010 20/01/2011 
(ii) 
920,421 – – – – 920,421 960 20/01/2014 20/01/2017 
2011 03/01/2012 
(iii) 
1,114,982 – – – – 1,114,982 960 03/01/2015 03/01/2018 
2012 12/12/2012 
(iii)
– 838,794 419,396 – – 1,258,190 960 12/12/2015 12/12/2018
Total 2,873,828 838,794 419,396 – 838,425 3,293,593 2,880
Simon T ownsend 
2009 08/01/2010 
(i) 
503,055 – – – 503,055 – – 08/01/2013 08/01/2016 
2010 20/01/2011 
(ii) 
552,252 – – – – 552,252 576 20/01/2014 20/01/2017 
2011 03/01/2012 
(iii) 
668,989 – – – – 668,989 576 03/01/2015 03/01/2018 
2012 12/12/2012 
(iii)
– 503,276 251,638 – – 754,914 576 12/12/2015 12/12/2018
Total 1,724,296 503,276 251,638 – 503,055 1,976,155 1,728
Neil Smith 
2010 20/01/2011 
(ii) (v) 
503,355 – – – – 503,355 525 20/01/2014 20/01/2017 
2011 03/01/2012 
(iii) 
609,756 – – – – 609,756 525 03/01/2015 03/01/2018 
2012 12/12/2012 
(iii)
– 465,268 195,962 – – 661,230 505 12/12/2015 12/12/2018
Total 1,113,111 465,268 195,962 – – 1,774,341 1,555
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
55 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   55 10/12/2013   14:20:04 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Directors’ Remuneration Report
(i) The performance condition applying to the 2009 awards was based solely on relative TSR performance, which compared the 
Company’s TSR performance over the three year period commencing on the date of grant with the TSR of the FTSE250 (as at 
the date of grant) as follows: 
Company’s TSR ranking v the FTSE250 
over the three year performance period 
Percentage of performance 
share award that vests
Level of matching share award (matching 
award shares : investment shares)
Below median 0% 0:1
Median 20% 0.4:1
Upper quintile 100% 2:1
The performance period for this award ended on 8 January 2013, the Company’s TSR performance was below median, therefore 
the awards lapsed.
(ii) Plan Year 2010 – The performance condition for the 2010 award is the same as for the 2009 award. As with previous LTIP 
awards, vesting occurs in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant. In addition, irrespective 
of the Company’s TSR performance, awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that the TSR result is reflective of the 
Company’s underlying financial performance over the relevant period. Based on performance to 30 September 2013, the award 
may not meet the minimum vesting hurdle. 
(iii) Plan Year 2011 and 2012 – The performance conditions applying to the 2011 and 2012 awards are solely based on relative TSR 
performance, which compares the Company’s TSR performance over the three year period commencing on the date of grant 
with the TSR of the FTSE250 (as at the date of grant) as follows: 
Company’s TSR ranking v the FTSE250 
over the three year performance period 
Percentage of performance 
share award that vests 
Level of matching share award (matching 
award shares : investment shares) 
Below median 0% 0:1
Median 0% 0:1
Upper quintile 100% 2:1
Straight-line vesting will occur if the Company’s TSR ranking is between the median and upper quintile. As with previous LTIP 
awards, vesting occurs in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant. In addition, irrespective 
of the Company’s TSR performance, awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that the TSR result is reflective of the 
Company’s underlying financial performance over the relevant period. 
(iv) The 2010 and 2012 LTIP awards are based on a policy of using a 5 day average share price (following the date of the announcement 
of the results for that year) to determine the number of shares comprising the LTIP award. This was 76.3p for the awards granted 
in December 2012 and 104.3p for 2010. The 2011 LTIP award is based on a notional share price of 86.1p.
(v) Of the 503,355 shares awarded to Neil Smith, 167 ,785 of the shares were subject to the additional condition requiring him to 
acquire up to 83,892 shares by 20 January 2014. 
£1 in aggregate is payable on the exercise of each year’s LTIP award.
Directors’ share options 
No options under the Executive Share Option Scheme have been granted to any of the executive directors in the 
current or prior year. Options granted under the Company’s SAYE scheme are shown in the table below. There are no 
performance conditions restricting the exercise of options held under this scheme (reflecting the relevant legislation). 
Executive director 
Exercise 
price 
£ 
At 1 Oct 
2012 Exercised Lapsed Granted 
At 30 Sept 
2013 (i) 
Market 
price at 
exercise 
£ 
Aggregate 
gain 
£000 
T ed T uppen 0.242 61,983 – – – 61,983 – – 
Simon T ownsend 0.242 61,983 – – – 61,983 – – 
Neil Smith 0.242 61,983 – – – 61,983 – – 
(i) Exercise period from 1 February 2017 to 1 August 2017 . 
The highest and lowest mid–market prices of the Company’s shares during the year under review were 62.25 pence and 
153.80 pence respectively. The mid–market price of the Company’s shares at 30 September 2013 was 144.50 pence. 
56 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   56 10/12/2013   14:20:04 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Share incentive plan (SIP)
During the year under review, Ted Tuppen and Simon Townsend each purchased 1,542 shares under the SIP at 97 .3 
pence per share (2012: 4,366 each at a price of 34.4 pence per share), in addition to shares held by them at 1 October 
2012. If these shares are held for three years, they will be matched by the Company on a two–for–one basis conditional 
upon the directors’ continued employment. Details of the total partnership and matching shares held under the SIP are 
included in the table of directors’ interests below. 
Dilution limits 
Whilst the Company has authority to issue new shares and/or treasury shares under its employees’ share plans, 
since 1 October 2004 the Company’s policy has been to satisfy all awards and options granted under the Company’s 
executive share schemes and all employee share incentive plans using existing shares purchased in the market by the 
Trustees of the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust). At 30 September 2013 no new shares or treasury shares 
have been issued to satisfy awards or options granted in the previous ten years under any of the Company’s employee 
share incentive plans and, as at 30 September 2013, the total number of shares held in the Trust was 6,498,869, 
equivalent to 1 .28% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, excluding treasury shares.
Directors’ share interests 
The Committee has introduced share ownership guidelines for the executive directors which require them to build up 
and retain a holding of shares equal in value to their base salaries. Executives are expected to build up the required 
shareholding by the later of: (i) the fifth anniversary of the introduction of the guidelines in 2011; and (ii) the fifth 
anniversary of them joining the Board; and they are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested awards under 
the LTIP and/or Deferred Share Awards until the guidelines are met. The directors either already hold the required 
shareholdings under the guidelines or are not yet at the anniversary dates for them to do so.
The interests of the directors who held office during the period from 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 in the 
ordinary shares of the Company are as set out in the tables below. 
As at 1 October 2012:
Director
Beneficial (i) Conditional
LTIP (ii) 
Deferred 
Shares(iii) 
T ed T uppen 3,591,808 2,873,828 1,796,685
Simon T ownsend 741,929 1,724,296 1,056,043
Neil Smith 25,000 1,113,111 544,198
Robert Walker 275,000 – –
David Harding 3,000 – –
Susan Murray 4,000 – –
David Maloney 25,000 – –
As at 30 September 2013: 
Director
Beneficial (i) Conditional
LTIP (ii)
Deferred 
Shares (iii)
T ed T uppen 3,496,434 3,293,593 1,838,537
Simon T ownsend 546,555 1,976,155 1,081,683
Neil Smith 25,000 1,774,341 553,975
Robert Walker 275,000 – –
Peter Baguley – – –
David Harding 3,000 – –
Susan Murray 4,000 – –
David Maloney 25,000 – –
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
57 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   57 10/12/2013   14:20:04 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Directors’ Remuneration Report
(i) Beneficial share interests include partnership and matching shares held under the SIP of 32,534 shares each for Ted Tuppen and 
Simon Townsend at 30 September 2013 (2012: 27 ,908 shares each). 
(ii) Full details of LTIP awards, including performance conditions and exercise periods, are set out in the table on page 55. 
(iii) Full details of Deferred Share Awards, including exercise periods, are set out in the table on page 54. 
Save for contributions to the SAYE scheme, there have been no other changes in share interests from 30 September 
2013 to the date of this report.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the 
express permission of the Board. None of the directors currently holds their shares in such an arrangement. 
The following information has not been subject to audit:
PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN THE REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
2013
£000
2012
£000 % change
Chief Executive Officer 
– salary 640.0 640.0 0%
– benefits 29.0 27 .5 5.5%
– bonus 192.0 329.0 (41 .6)%
Average per employee 
– salary 40.3 39.6 1 .8%
– benefits 3.6 3.5 2.9%
– bonus 2.8 3.3 (15.2)%
The table above shows the movement in the remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and 
previous financial year compared with movement of the average remuneration (per head) for all Group employees. 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY
The table below shows the relative importance of the spend on pay (for all employees) compared with the returns 
distributed to shareholders:
2013
£m
2012
£m % change
Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees 26 26 0%
Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy–backs – – 0%
58 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   58 10/12/2013   14:20:05 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
HISTORICAL COMPARATIVE TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
The graph below shows the TSR, in terms of change in value (with dividends re–invested) of an initial investment of 
£100 on 1 October 2008 in a holding of the Company’s shares against the corresponding TSR in a hypothetical holding 
of shares in the companies represented in the FTSE250 index. The FTSE250 index was selected as it represents a 
broad equity market index in which the Company was a constituent member for the majority of the five year period. 
T otal Shareholder Return  
Source: Datastream
96
42
22
71
83
218
167
136
142
120
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
30 Sep 09 1 Oct 08 30 Sep 10 30 Sep 11 30 Sep 12 30 Sep 13
Value (£)
Enterprise Inns plc FTSE250
This graph shows the value by 30 September 2013 of £100 invested in Enterprise Inns plc shares on 1 October 2008 
compared with the value of £100 notionally invested in the FTSE250 index. The other points plotted are the values at 
intervening financial year ends.
Chief Executive Officer Remuneration
Y ear ended 30 September
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total remuneration £000 972 1,386 1,073 1,159 1,024
Annual bonus (%)* 18% 87% 38% 51% 30%
LTIP vesting (%)* 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
* percentage of the maximum award (for LTIP , this includes matching shares)
The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive during each of those financial years. The 
total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus, matching shares awarded in relation to the SIP and LTIP awards 
(performance and matching) which vested based on performance in those years. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
59 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   59 10/12/2013   14:20:05 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Directors’ Remuneration Report
SERVICE CONTRACTS
A summary of the service contracts and letters of appointments for the directors is set out below: 
Executive director Date of agreement Effective date Notice period
T ed T uppen 25 October 1995 1 October 1995 12 months
Simon T ownsend 31 October 2000 1 October 2000 12 months
Neil Smith 8 October 2010 1 January 2011 12 months
Non–executive director Date of appointment Expiry date
Robert Walker 9 February 2012 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
Susan Murray 3 November 2004 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
David Maloney 10 July 2008 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
Peter Baguley 31 January 2013 Terminable on 6 months’ notice
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
The executive directors may accept outside appointments provided that such appointments do not in any way prejudice 
their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company. The extent to which any executive director is 
allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such outside appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the 
Company, will be assessed on a case–by–case basis. 
SHAREHOLDER VOTE 
The Committee encourages dialogue with the Company’s shareholders and will endeavour to consult with major 
shareholders ahead of any significant future changes to the remuneration policy. 
Details of the votes cast in relation to the remuneration report at last year’s AGM are set out below:
2013 AGM % 
Votes cast in favour 225,361,892 99.56%
Votes cast against 988,399 0.44%
T otal 226,350,291 100%
Votes withheld 9,363,217
60 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   60 10/12/2013   14:20:05 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
APPLICATION OF THE POLICY FOR 2014
Base salaries and fees
The Committee has reviewed the salaries for the executive directors, including Ted Tuppen, in light of the proposed 
changes to the Board structure. Taking account of the factors set out in the policy report relevant to base salaries, the 
Committee has determined that the following salaries will take effect from the AGM date:
 ■ Simon Townsend – £460,000 
 ■ Neil Smith – £375,000 
There are no changes to the base salary of Ted Tuppen or to the fees for the Chairman and non–executive directors. 
The fee policy is as set out on page 52.
Annual bonus 2014
The Bonus Plan for the 2014 financial year will remain largely unchanged from the 2013 financial year. The normal 
maximum bonus opportunity for all executive directors continues to be 100% of salary: 80% of the award will be 
subject to a sliding scale of adjusted basic EPS targets and 20% will be subject to personal and strategic targets. 
The Committee considers that the forward looking EPS targets are commercially sensitive and has therefore chosen 
not to disclose them in advance. Details of the targets will be set out retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration. However, the targets are considered to be demanding in the context of the Company’s circumstances. 
Performance and matching shares 2014
The performance and matching shares granted in December 2013 will be subject to a relative TSR performance 
condition (using the same approach as for this year’s awards). The intended grant level for the performance shares will 
be 100% of salary and the matching shares (at up to a 2:1 ratio) will be awarded in proportion to the shares (worth up 
to 25% of salary) acquired with the deferred bonus.
Ted Tuppen’s retirement from the Board
On 18 November 2013, Ted Tuppen gave 12 months notice to the Board of his intention to retire. Since a successor 
has been appointed, the Board has decided that he will retire as Chief Executive Officer on 6 February 2014 after the 
AGM on that day, allowing Simon Townsend to take over the role from that date. Ted will continue as an employee 
until at least 19 May 2014, or later at the request of the Board, and will be engaged in, amongst other things, the 
orderly handover to the newly appointed Chief Executive Officer and matters arising in relation to the Government 
Consultation into pub companies. He will be paid salary, benefits and pension in lieu of notice for any period after he 
leaves employment until 18 November 2014. He will be eligible for a pro–rata bonus for the period from 1 October 
2013 up until the date he leaves the Company and this will be based on personal objectives and EPS subject to 
achieving the threshold EPS target set in the bonus plan for 2014. This will be paid in cash (or deferred shares) on the 
normal payment date. As a retiree, he will be treated as a ‘good leaver’ under the share scheme rules. His outstanding 
deferred share bonus awards will vest on departure and the LTIP awards will vest subject to performance and time 
pro–rating and in accordance with the scheme rules. Ted will not be granted any further performance share or matching 
awards, other than any awarded under all employee Share Incentive Plans, during 2013 or 2014.
APPROVAL 
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Enterprise Inns plc. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 
S E Murray 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
18 November 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
61 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   61 10/12/2013   14:20:05 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to  
prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Company 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and 
Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
 ■ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 ■ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 ■ state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 
 ■ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain  
the Company’s and the Group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report (including the Corporate Governance Report), 
Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are disclosed on page 34, confirms that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
 ■ the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group; and 
 ■ the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Having 
taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the Board
G E T uppen 
Chief Executive 
18 November 2013
N R Smith 
Chief Financial Officer 
18 November 2013
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Relation to 
the Group and Company Financial Statements
62 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   62 10/12/2013   14:20:05 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Group Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Notes
Pre-
exceptional 
items 
£m
2013
Exceptional 
items  
(see note 6) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Pre-
exceptional 
items
£m
2012
Exceptional 
items 
(see note 6)
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 4 639 – 639 692 – 692 
Cost of sales 5 (294) – (294) (318) – (318)
Gross profit 345 – 345 374 – 374 
Administrative expenses (32) (2) (34) (34) (4) (38)
EBITDA
†
313 (2) 311 340 (4) 336 
Depreciation and amortisation (15) – (15) (14) – (14)
Operating profit/(loss) 7 298 (2) 296 326 (4) 322 
Profit on sale of property, plant 
and equipment
9 – 21 21 – 33 33 
Goodwill allocated to disposals 9 – (14) (14) – (18) (18)
Net profit on sale of property, 
plant and equipment 9 – 7 7 – 15 15 
Movements in valuation of pub 
estate and related assets 10 – (165) (165) – (127) (127)
Total finance costs (177) (4) (181) (189) – (189)
Gain on purchase of own debt – 1 1 – 13 13 
Net finance costs 12 (177) (3) (180) (189) 13 (176)
Profit/(loss) before tax 121 (163) (42) 137 (103) 34 
Taxation 13 (26) 64 38 (35) 45 10 
Profit/(loss) after tax 
attributable to members of the 
Parent Company 95 (99) (4) 102 (58) 44 
Earnings per share 
Basic 14 (0.8)p 8.8p
Basic diluted 14 (0.8)p 8.8p
Adjusted * 14 19.0p 20.5p
Adjusted diluted * 14 19.0p 20.4p
†
  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
*  Excludes exceptional items
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
63 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   63 10/12/2013   14:20:06 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (4) 44 79 96 
Items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Unrealised deficit on revaluation of pub estate (55) (22) (13) (16)
Movement in deferred tax liability related to revaluation of pub estate 10 6 (2) 23 
Write-down of non-current assets held for sale (28) (18) (25) (12)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme – (1) – (1)
Restatement of deferred tax liability related to revaluation of pub 
estate for change in UK tax rate 30 17 17 10 
Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax (43) (18) (23) 4 
T otal comprehensive (loss)/income for the year attributable to 
members of the Parent Company (47) 26 56 100 
Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 September 2013
64 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   64 10/12/2013   14:20:06 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Group Company
Notes
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15 345 359 – –
Intangible assets: operating lease premiums 16 11 11 4 5 
Property, plant and equipment 17 3,947 4,259 2,023 2,248 
Investments 18 – – 1,834 1,833 
Financial assets 23 – – 150 121 
4,303 4,629 4,011 4,207
Current assets
Assets held for sale 19 – 3 – 2 
Trade and other receivables 20 48 55 524 502 
Cash 144 125 39 25 
  192 183 563 529
Non-current assets held for sale 21 39 46 30 20 
T otal assets 4,534 4,858 4,604 4,756 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (182) (180) (504) (515)
Current tax payable (10) (16) (13) (14)
Financial liabilities 23 (129) (95) (60) (85)
Provisions 26 (7) (7) – –
(328) (298) (577) (614)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 23 (2,536) (2,767) (1,274) (1,424)
Provisions 26 (4) (3) (3) (3)
Deferred tax 27 (264) (364) (132) (176)
Pension scheme 28 – (1) – (1)
(2,804) (3,135) (1,409) (1,604)
T otal liabilities (3,132) (3,433) (1,986) (2,218)
Net assets 1,402 1,425 2,618 2,538 
Equity
Called up share capital 29 14 14 14 14 
Share premium account 31 486 486 486 486 
Revaluation reserve 31 754 807 462 499 
Capital redemption reserve 31 11 11 11 11 
Merger reserve 31 77 77 – –
Treasury share reserve 31 (227) (227) (227) (227)
Other reserve 31 2 (20) 376 390 
Profit and loss account 285 277 1,496 1,365 
T otal equity 1,402 1,425 2,618 2,538 
Total equity is wholly attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
Approved by the Board on 18 November 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
G E T uppen
N R Smith
Balance Sheets
at 30 September 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
65 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   65 10/12/2013   14:20:06 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Group
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Revalua-
tion 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemp-
tion 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
T reasury 
share 
reserve 
£m 
Other 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m 
T otal
£m
At 1 October 2011 14 486 859 11 77 (227) (23) 200 1,397 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 44 44 
Other comprehensive income – – (17) – – – – (1) (18)
Total comprehensive income – – (17) – – – – 43 26 
Transfer of realised revaluation 
surplus – – (35) – – – – 35 –
Transfer of shares from Employee 
Benefit Trust to Share Incentive 
Plan – – – – – – 3 (3) –
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit – – – – – – – 2 2 
At 30 September 2012 14 486 807 11 77 (227) (20) 277 1,425 
Loss for the year – – – – – – – (4) (4)
Other comprehensive income – – (43) – – – – – (43)
Total comprehensive income – – (43) – – – – (4) (47)
Transfer of realised revaluation 
surplus – – (16) – – – – 16 –
Transfer of deferred tax on 
disposals – – 6 – – – – (6) –
Transfer of shares from Employee 
Benefit Trust to Share Incentive 
Plan – – – – – – 1 (1) –
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit – – – – – – – 2 2 
Deferred tax in relation to share 
options – – – – – – – 1 1 
Equity element of convertible 
bond issue – – – – – – 22 – 22 
Equity element of financing costs 
paid on issue of convertible bond – – – – – – (1) – (1)
At 30 September 2013 14 486 754 11 77 (227) 2 285 1,402 
Statement of Changes in Equity
at 30 September 2013
66 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   66 10/12/2013   14:20:07 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Company
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Revalua-
tion 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemp-
tion 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
T reasury 
share 
reserve 
£m 
Other 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m 
T otal
£m
At 1 October 2011 14 486 515 11 – (227) 387 1,250 2,436 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 96 96 
Other comprehensive income – – 5 – – – – (1) 4 
Total comprehensive income – – 5 – – – – 95 100 
Transfer of realised revaluation 
surplus – – (21) – – – – 21 –
Transfer of shares from Employee 
Benefit Trust to Share Incentive 
Plan – – – – – – 3 (3) –
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit – – – – – – – 2 2 
At 30 September 2012 14 486 499 11 – (227) 390 1,365 2,538 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 79 79 
Other comprehensive income – – (23) – – – – – (23)
Total comprehensive income – – (23) – – – – 79 56 
Transfer of realised revaluation 
surplus – – (18) – – – – 18 –
Transfer of deferred tax on 
disposals – – 4 – – – – (4) –
Transfer of shares from Employee 
Benefit Trust to Share Incentive 
Plan – – – – – – 1 (1) –
Share-based expense recognised 
in operating profit – – – – – – – 2 2 
Deferred tax in relation to share 
options – – – – – – – 1 1 
Equity element of intercompany 
loan (net of costs) – – – – – – 21 – 21 
Reclassification (see note 31) – – – – – – (36) 36 –
At 30 September 2013 14 486 462 11 – (227) 376 1,496 2,618 
Statement of Changes in Equity
at 30 September 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
67 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   67 10/12/2013   14:20:07 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Operating profit 296 322 163 177 
Depreciation and amortisation 15 14 9 8 
Share-based expense recognised in profit 2 2 2 2 
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 6 9 (23) (39)
Decrease in payables (5) (25) (19) (25)
Increase in provisions 1 1 – –
Decrease in current assets held for sale 3 2 2 –
 318 325 134 123
Tax paid (27) (29) (21) (22)
Net cash flows from operating activities 291 296 113 101 
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments to acquire public houses – – – (9)
Payments made on improvements to public houses (60) (61) (30) (33)
Payments to acquire other property, plant and equipment (2) (2) (2) (2)
Receipts from sale of property, plant and equipment 150 208 125 119 
Payments to acquire investments – – (1) –
Dividend from trading investment – – 65 65 
Net cash flows from investing activities 88 145 157 140 
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (183) (188) (97) (99)
Interest received 1 1 – –
Issue costs of long-term loans (2) (8) (2) (8)
Cancellation and restructuring of interest rate swaps – (3) – –
Payments to acquire own debt (8) (52) – –
Proceeds from issue of convertible bond 97 – – –
New loans 110 160 207 160 
Repayment of loans (375) (340) (364) (287)
Net cash flows from financing activities (360) (430) (256) (234)
Net increase in cash 19 11 14 7 
Cash at start of year 125 114 25 18 
Cash at end of year 144 125 39 25
68 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   68 10/12/2013   14:20:07 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
1. General information
The consolidated financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2013 were authorised 
for issue by the Board on 18 November 2013. Enterprise Inns plc is a public limited company incorporated and 
registered in England. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
2. Presentation of Financial Statements
Statement of compliance
These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU).
Basis of preparation
The financial information for the year ended 30 September 2013 has been prepared in accordance with the 
accounting policies set out in note 3 and are presented in pounds sterling. Amounts are shown in millions, unless 
stated otherwise.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc and its 
subsidiaries. Consolidated financial statements are drawn up to 30 September each year and adjustments are 
made to the financial statements of the subsidiaries where necessary to bring the accounting policies used in 
line with those used by the Group.
Result of the Parent Company
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not 
to publish the Parent Company individual Income Statement and related notes.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, including a description of its financial position, cash flows, debt and borrowing 
facilities, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 29. 
In addition, a summary of factors likely to affect the Group’s future developments and performance is set out in 
the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 29. Further details on the Group’s financial instruments and risks can be found 
in note 23 of the accounts on pages 90 to 98.
The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the Parent Company and Group’s financial resources, 
including a review of the budgets and medium-term financial plans, which includes a review of cash flow forecasts, 
financial covenant calculations and the ability to meet any refinancing requirements, and have a reasonable 
expectation that the Parent Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Exceptional items
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the 
Income Statement. Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their size 
or nature to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Exceptional items are explained further in notes 3, 6, 9, 10, 12 and 13.
New standards and interpretations
During the year the Group and the Parent Company have adopted the following new standards, interpretations 
and amendments:
 ■ Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements – Other Comprehensive Income
 ■ Amendments to IAS 12: Income Taxes – Recovery of Underlying Assets
The adoption of these standards has not had a material impact on the results or financial position of the Parent 
Company or Group. 
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
69 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   69 10/12/2013   14:20:07 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
2. Presentation of Financial Statements (continued)
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
As at 30 September 2013 there are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations in issue (some of 
which have not yet been adopted by the EU) with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the 
dates disclosed below and which have not been early adopted by the Parent Company or Group.
 ■ Amendment to IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and 
Financial Liabilities
1 January 2013
 ■ IFRS 9: Financial Instruments 1 January 2015
 ■ Amendment to IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements – Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Transition 
Guidance 
1 January 2014
 ■ Amendment to IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements – Investment Entities 
(Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27)
1 January 2014
 ■ Amendment to IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities – Investment Entities 
(Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27)
1 January 2014
 ■ IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013
 ■ Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements – Annual Improvements 2009-
2011 Cycle
1 January 2013
 ■ Amendments to IAS 16 : Property, Plant and Equipment – Clarification of Servicing Equipment 1 January 2013
 ■ IAS 19: Employee Benefits (revised) 1 January 2013
 ■ Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation – Annual Improvements  
2009-2011 Cycle
1 January 2013
 ■ Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Financial Liabilities
1 January 2014
 ■ Amendments to IAS 34: Interim Reporting – Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle 1 January 2013
 ■ Amendments to IAS 36: Impairment of Assets – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-
Financial Assets
1 January 2013
The adoption of IFRS 13, which will be implemented prospectively in the 30 September 2014 financial statements, 
addresses fair value measurement including specific rules for determining the fair value of non-financial assets 
and related disclosures. In order to assess the effect of the new standard, the concepts concerning highest 
and best use of an asset were considered during the current year valuation process and had IFRS 13 been 
implemented during the year, the effect on the valuation would not have been material. As the Group and Parent 
Company carry property, plant and equipment at valuation, implementation of the standard will require further 
consideration during the valuation process in 2014 and an increased level of disclosures will be required in the  
30 September 2014 financial statements.
3. Accounting policies
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired 
in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill is stated at 
cost less any impairment. On disposal of a pub, an attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination 
of profit or loss on sale. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 1998 was written off against reserves and has not been 
subsequently reversed. Any such goodwill is not included in determining the profit or loss on disposal. 
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
70 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   70 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
3. Accounting policies (continued)
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments in the Parent Company Balance Sheet are initially recognised at fair value and then held 
at this value subject to an annual impairment test.
Property, plant and equipment
Licensed land and buildings are held at their fair value and landlord’s fixtures and fittings and other assets are held 
at cost. The Group’s licensed land and buildings, except for those non-current assets held for sale, are revalued 
each year by external valuers or employees who are professionally qualified to carry out such valuations.
Surpluses arising from the revaluation exercise are taken through Other Comprehensive Income to the revaluation 
reserve except where they reverse a revaluation decrease relating to the same asset previously recognised as 
an expense in the Income Statement. Any deficit arising from the revaluation exercise is taken through Other 
Comprehensive Income to the revaluation reserve to the extent that there is a surplus in place relating to the 
same asset. Any further decrease in value is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Freehold buildings are depreciated so as to write-off the difference between 
their carrying value and residual value over their useful economic life of 50 years. Residual value is reviewed at 
least at each financial year end and there is no depreciable amount if residual value is the same as, or exceeds, 
book value.
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings are split into two categories, long life landlord’s fixtures and fittings and short life 
landlord’s fixtures and fittings. Both are held at cost less accumulated depreciation. The useful economic life of 
additions to long life landlord’s fixtures and fittings has been calculated at 30 years and short life landlord’s fixtures 
and fittings has been calculated at 5 years. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis to write-off the total 
cost less residual value over their useful economic life. 
Properties held under finance leases are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the remaining 
lease term and their useful economic life of 50 years. 
Depreciation is provided on other categories of property, plant and equipment over 3 to 50 years on a straight-line 
basis to residual value.
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually for indications of impairment. Where any indications are 
identified, assets are assessed fully for impairment. Impairment occurs where the recoverable amount of the 
asset is less than its carrying amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. Any impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a surplus exists for 
the same asset, and thereafter as an expense in the Income Statement. 
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying value and expected sale proceeds, net 
of selling costs. Licensed land and buildings and operating lease intangibles are classified as held for sale when 
they have been identified for disposal by the Group. They must be available for immediate sale in their present 
condition and the sale should be highly probable. These conditions are met when management are committed 
to the sale, the pub or lease is actively marketed and the sale is expected to occur within one year. Licensed 
land and buildings held for sale are not depreciated and operating lease intangible assets held for sale are not 
amortised. 
Profits or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are calculated as the difference between the 
net sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset within non-current assets held for sale at the date of 
disposal. 
Leases
Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Pubs acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present value of 
future minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease 
payable. Pubs held under finance leases are revalued along with the freehold estate on an annual basis. Lease 
payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to obtain a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are taken as an expense to the Income 
Statement. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
71 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   71 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
3. Accounting policies (continued)
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis to the Income Statement 
over the lease term. The fair value attributed to pubs acquired as part of business combinations that are held as 
operating leases are classified in the Balance Sheet as ‘intangible assets: operating lease premiums’ within non-
current assets and are amortised over the lease term. 
The Group enters into sale and leaseback transactions where licensed land and buildings have been sold and the 
Group has immediately entered into a lease agreement with the acquiree. These land and buildings have been 
classified as operating leases. They are no longer included within property, plant and equipment and the rentals 
paid are charged on a straight-line basis to the Income Statement over the lease term.
Current assets held for sale
Current assets held for sale comprise tenants’ fixtures and fittings and are held at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred 
on disposal.
Repairs and maintenance
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Income Statement as incurred. 
Financial instruments
a) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash at bank and in hand. Any short-term deposits with an original maturity date of three months 
or less are classified as cash equivalents. 
b) Borrowings
Borrowings which include bank borrowings, debentures, secured bonds and securitised bonds are measured 
at amortised cost. This method is used to ensure that the interest charge associated with the debt, combined 
with the amortisation of the issue costs, premiums and discounts, represents a constant percentage of the 
borrowings across the life of the instrument.
When borrowings are refinanced the Group reviews whether the arrangement constitutes an extinguishment 
of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability or a modification of the terms of 
the existing financial liability. If the refinanced borrowings are accounted for as an extinguishment of the original 
financial liability any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment. If the 
refinanced borrowings are accounted for as a modification any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount 
of the liability and are amortised over the remaining life of the modified loan.
c) Convertible financial instruments
The gross proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity 
component at the date of issue. The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market 
interest rate for similar non-convertible debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible 
bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the 
liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured. The liability component is carried 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method until extinguished upon conversion or at the instrument’s 
maturity date. Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds 
based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is 
charged directly against equity.
The difference between the interest expense calculated under the effective interest rate method and interest paid 
to bond holders is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
d) Equity instruments
Equity instruments, being ordinary shares issued by the Parent Company, are recorded at the fair value of the 
proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs. The nominal value of shares issued is recorded in called up share 
capital and the balance of the net proceeds is recorded in share premium. 
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
72 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   72 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
3. Accounting policies (continued)
e) Trade debtors and creditors
Trade debtors and creditors are held at amortised cost.
Net debt
Net debt is the total book value of all financial assets and liabilities (not including trade receivables, trade payables 
and the equity component of the convertible bond) less cash. Underlying net debt is the nominal value of all 
financial assets and liabilities (not including trade receivables and trade payables) net of cash retained in the 
business.
T axation
The tax expense comprises both the tax payable based on taxable profits for the year and deferred tax. Deferred 
tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences between the carrying 
value of assets and liabilities for accounting and tax purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. No deferred 
tax is recognised if the taxable temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised 
amounts and the intention is to either settle on a net basis or realise the asset and liability simultaneously. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and the assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority which are intended to 
be settled net or simultaneously. 
Tax is charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to 
Other Comprehensive Income. Similarly tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items charged 
or credited directly to equity. Otherwise tax is charged in the Income Statement. Tax is calculated using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. If the effect is material, the amount of the provision is discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The amount of the 
provision would therefore represent the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the 
obligation. 
Pension obligations
The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension arrangements. 
The cost of defined contribution payments made to employees’ own pension plans is charged to the Income 
Statement as incurred. 
The defined benefit scheme is now closed to new members and for the future accrual of benefits. The net 
amount recognised in the Balance Sheet comprises the difference between the present value of the scheme’s 
liabilities and the fair value of the scheme’s assets. This is determined annually by qualified actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. Current service cost and past service cost are charged to operating profit. The net 
of the expected return on scheme assets and interest on scheme liabilities is recognised within finance income 
or finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in Other 
Comprehensive Income.
T reasury shares
The cost of own shares held in employee benefit trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders’ equity 
until the shares are cancelled, re-issued or disposed of. Any proceeds received are also taken to shareholders’ 
equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of own 
shares held. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
73 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   73 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
3. Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is the fair value of consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal 
course of business, net of discounts, volume rebates and VAT. Sales of beverages are recognised when these 
goods are delivered to our Publicans. Property rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of 
the lease. Amusement machine royalties are recognised in the accounting period to which the income relates. 
Segmental reporting
An operating segment is a distinguishable segment of an entity that engages in business activities from which it 
may earn revenues and incur expenses and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s chief 
operating decision maker (CODM). The Board reviews the Group’s operations and financial position as a whole 
and therefore considers that it has only one operating segment, being the operation of a leased and tenanted pub 
estate operating solely within the UK. The information presented to the CODM directly reflects that presented in 
the financial statements.
Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment schemes for employees. Share-based 
payments are measured at fair value at the date of the award. This value is subsequently updated at each Balance 
Sheet date for management’s best estimate of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions on the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
service and performance (vesting conditions), other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares 
of the Parent Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for 
an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like market 
performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value. 
The fair value is recognised as an expense over the vesting period by calculating the cumulative expense and 
recognising the movement in the cumulative expense in the Income Statement. A corresponding entry is made 
to equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or 
non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied. 
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability when they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Operating profit
Operating profit as referred to in the Income Statement is defined as being profit generated from normal trading 
activities before net profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment, movements in valuation of the pub 
estate and related assets, finance costs and taxation.
Exceptional items
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the 
Income Statement. Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their 
size or nature to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and include the following:
a) Exceptional items recognised in operating profit
Exceptional costs relating to regulatory matters and reorganisational costs have been recognised in the 
administrative costs line.
b) Net profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment
Net profit/(loss) arising from the sale of property, plant and equipment less goodwill allocated to disposals.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
74 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   74 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
3. Accounting policies (continued)
c) Movements in valuation of pub estate and related assets
Any revaluation that causes the book value of a pub to fall below historic cost will lead to a charge in the Income 
Statement. If that same pub later recovers in value so that its book value exceeds historic cost, the increase in 
value is credited to the Income Statement to the extent that a debit was previously recognised. Where pubs 
identified for disposal are written down to ‘fair value less costs to sell’, any associated write-down below historic 
cost is also recognised in this line. The remaining impact of the annual revaluation exercise or the identification of 
pubs for disposal is accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income.
d) Finance costs
The gain on purchase of own debt is calculated as the difference between the nominal price of the debt purchased 
less the aggregate of the consideration and related transaction costs paid. The Group has elected to take the gain 
on the settlement date.
Exceptional finance costs are also recognised to reflect the write-off of brought forward fees in relation to bank 
facilities cancelled prior to the commencement of the facility.
e) T ax
A deferred tax liability has been recognised on the Balance Sheet relating to the pub estate. On transition to IFRS, 
the Group elected to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions from 1 January 1999. This led to an increase in 
goodwill in respect of this deferred tax. As this pre-acquisition liability changes due to capital gains indexation 
relief and changes in the rate of UK tax, a debit or a credit is recognised in the Income Statement. This has been 
classified as an exceptional tax item due to its size and because it does not relate to any income or expense 
recognised in the Income Statement in the same period. All other movements in respect of this deferred tax 
liability are accounted for in the same performance statement as the gross item to which it relates.
The effect of changes in the enacted rate of tax used to calculate deferred tax is reflected in Other Comprehensive 
Income to the extent it relates to revaluation surpluses therein and in exceptional profit/loss for all other elements 
of deferred tax.
The tax effect of all other exceptional items is also included within the exceptional items column in the Income 
Statement. 
Use of accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions during the preparation of the financial statements. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The estimates and assumptions 
that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below:
a) Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
Properties are valued annually at open market value in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual 
published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). The valuation is based on market observations 
and estimates the amount that would be paid by a willing buyer to a willing seller in an arms length transaction 
after proper marketing. Non-current assets held for sale are valued at the lower of their carrying value and their 
market value less any costs that may be incurred to sell the pub. 
Further information about the valuation of the pub estate is provided in note 17 of these financial statements.
The Group estimates the useful economic life and residual value of PPE and these estimates influence the 
depreciation charged each year. For details of these estimates, see the detailed accounting policy for PPE. 
b) Testing goodwill for impairment
The Group annually tests whether goodwill has been impaired. Management make judgements to allocate 
goodwill to the Group of Cash Generating Units (CGUs) that benefits from the synergy of acquisitions and 
reflects the level at which goodwill is monitored. The recoverable amount of the CGUs that the goodwill has been 
allocated to is determined based on value in use calculations which require estimating future cash flows and 
applying a suitable discount rate. 
Details of the tests and carrying value of the asset are shown in note 15.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
75 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   75 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
3. Accounting policies (continued)
c) T axation 
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions 
cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities. Tax benefits are 
not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained. Tax provisions are made if it is expected that 
a liability will arise. The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting 
treatment.
4. Revenue
The Group operates in one segment, that of leased and tenanted pub operator in the UK. Revenue is derived as 
follows:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Beer and cider sales 433 463
Wines, spirits and minerals sales 23 32
Rent income 171 185
Income from amusement and other machines 12 12
639 692
5. Cost of sales
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Beer and cider cost of sales 250 266
Wines, spirits and minerals cost of sales 16 24
Leasehold charges 22 22
Repairs and maintenance 6 6
294 318
6. Exceptional items recognised in operating profit
An exceptional charge of £2 million (2012: £4 million) has been incurred relating to reorganisational costs and 
costs incurred in respect of regulatory matters.
All other exceptional items are explained in notes 9, 10, 12 and 13.
7. Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Depreciation 
Relating to cost of sales 15 13
15 13
Amortisation
Relating to cost of sales – 1
Depreciation and amortisation 15 14
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
76 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   76 10/12/2013   14:20:08 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
8. Auditor’s remuneration 
(This note is shown rounded to the nearest £000)
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 43 and 
includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are 
provided by the auditor.
2013 
£000
2012
£000
Group audit fees 151 151
Audit fees in respect of subsidiaries 14 14
Audit related assurance services 39 –
Other assurance services 24 19
Taxation advisory services 71 100
299 284
Group audit fees include £141,000 (2012: £137 ,000) paid to the auditor for the audit of the Parent Company. 
Fees paid to the auditor in respect of non-audit services provided to the Parent Company are not required to be 
disclosed because the Group financial statements are only required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
9. Profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment including goodwill allocation
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Profits on sale of property, plant and equipment 26 42 
Losses on sale of property, plant and equipment (5) (10)
Profits on sale and leaseback disposals – 1 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 21 33 
Goodwill allocated to disposals (14) (18)
Net profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 7 15
The tax impact of the sale of property, plant and equipment is set out in note 13.
During the year 428 pubs (2012: 301 pubs) and various other plots of land with a book value of £127 million  
(2012: £154 million) were sold generating gross proceeds of £157 million (2012: £193 million) which, after 
taking account of disposal costs of £9 million (2012: £7 million), resulted in an overall profit of £21 million  
(2012: £32 million).
During the prior year, 17 pubs were sold as part of the Group’s sale and leaseback programme. These pubs 
generated gross proceeds of £24 million and resulted in a profit over book value, after fees, of £1 million. These 
pubs were immediately leased back by the Group and are now classified as pubs held under operating leases. No 
further pubs have been sold on a sale and leaseback basis since this time.
In accordance with IAS 36 purchased goodwill is allocated to operations disposed of, based on the relative value 
of the disposal to operations retained. Accordingly, goodwill of £14 million (2012: £18 million) has been allocated 
to the 428 pubs (2012: 318 pubs) disposed of during the year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
77 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   77 10/12/2013   14:20:09 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
10. Movements in valuation of pub estate and related assets
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Movements in property, plant and equipment from revaluation of pub estate (see note 17) (84) (83)
Write-down of non-current assets held for sale to fair value less costs to sell (see note 17) (81) (44)
(165) (127)
There is no current tax expense associated with these movements. A deferred tax credit of £39 million  
(2012: £32 million) arises as a result of the revaluation and write-down of these properties (see note 13).
11. Staff costs
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 24 24
Social security costs 3 3
Other pension costs 2 2
29 29
Included in wages and salaries is an expense relating to share-based payments of £2 million (2012: £2 million). 
All of this expense arises from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments (see note 30).
Other pension costs represents payments made into employees’ individual defined contribution plans. 
The average monthly number of employees comprised:
2013 
No.
2012
No.
Operations staff 229 218
Administration staff 279 285
508 503
Directors’ remuneration is summarised below to the nearest £000 with full detail given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
2013 
£000
2012
£000
Directors’ remuneration* 2,255 2,564
Executive directors’ pensions 345 344
Share-based payments
†
1,764 1,004
*  Comprises fees, salary, benefits and performance-related bonus.
†
  Fair value of share-based payments charged to the Income Statement during the year.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
78 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   78 10/12/2013   14:20:09 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
12. Net finance costs
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Bank borrowings 18 29 
Debentures/secured bonds/securitised bonds 158 160 
Other interest payable and finance costs 2 1 
Interest receivable (1) (1)
Total pre-exceptional finance costs 177 189 
Exceptional finance costs:
Movement in fair value of financial instruments – (1)
Other interest payable and finance costs 4 1 
Exceptional finance costs 4 –
Gain on purchase of own debt (1) (13)
T otal net finance costs 180 176
The movement in fair value of financial instruments arises as a result of the revaluation of the swaps in the  
prior year.
During the year the Group purchased and cancelled securitised bonds. These transactions resulted in a gain of 
£1 million (2012: £13 million) being the difference between the nominal price of the debt purchased and the 
aggregate of the consideration and related transaction costs paid.
The exceptional other interest payable and finance costs in the year of £4 million (2012: £1 million) relates to 
interest accrued on tax provisions and finance arrangement fees written off following the cancellation of tranche 
A of the new forward start facility which has yet to commence.
The total interest charge under the effective interest rate method (which excludes the impact of interest rate 
swaps and the gain on purchase of own debt) is £181 million (2012: £190 million).
13. Taxation
a) T otal tax expense recognised in the Group Income Statement
Current tax
Pre-
exceptional 
items 
£m
2013
Exceptional 
items  
£m
T otal 
£m
Pre-
exceptional 
items
£m
2012
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total
£m
UK corporation tax 26 (2) 24 34 (3) 31 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3) – (3) – (2) (2)
Total current tax 23 (2) 21 34 (5) 29 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary 
differences 3 (56) (53) 1 (40) (39)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (6) (6) – – –
Total deferred tax 3 (62) (59) 1 (40) (39)
T axation (note 13b) 26 (64) (38) 35 (45) (10)
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
79 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   79 10/12/2013   14:20:09 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
13. Taxation (continued)
b) T ax charge reconciliation 
Pre-
exceptional 
items 
£m
2013
Exceptional 
items  
£m
T otal 
£m
Pre-
exceptional 
items
£m
2012
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax 121 (163) (42) 137 (103) 34 
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before 
tax at 23.5% (2012: 25%) 28 (38) (10) 34 (26) 8 
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax 
purposes/(non taxable income) 1 (5) (4) 1 3 4 
Movement in deferred tax liability for 
retained properties due to indexation* – (5) (5) – (14) (14)
Restriction of indexation due to 
movement in valuation of pub estate – – – – 10 10 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3) (6) (9) – (2) (2)
Movement in deferred tax balances 
restated to 20% (2012: 23%) – (10) (10) – (16) (16)
T otal tax charge/(credit) in the Income 
Statement 26 (64) (38) 35 (45) (10)
*  On transition to IFRS under IAS 12, a deferred tax liability was recognised on the Balance Sheet relating to the revaluation 
of the pub estate and gains previously rolled over, or due to be rolled over into other assets. The deferred tax liability that 
would have been in place at the time of business combinations that have occurred since 1 January 1999 resulted in the 
recognition of additional goodwill of £330 million as the fair value of the net assets acquired had been reduced. As this pre-
acquisition liability has reduced due to capital gains indexation relief and disposals, a credit has been recognised in the Income 
Statement. The exceptional indexation credit for the year ended 30 September 2013 is £5 million (2012: £14 million). This has 
been classed as an exceptional tax item due to its size and because it does not relate to any income or expense recognised 
in the Income Statement in the same period.
c) Deferred tax recognised in the Group Income Statement
Pre-
exceptional 
items 
£m
2013
Exceptional 
items  
£m
T otal 
£m
Pre-
exceptional 
items
£m
2012
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total
£m
Deferred tax on movement in fair value 
of interest rate swaps – – – – 1 1 
Temporary differences 1 – 1 1 – 1 
Accelerated capital allowances 2 (9) (7) – – –
Deferred tax on movement in valuation 
of pub estate
†
– (32) (32) – (21) (21)
Movement in deferred tax liability for 
retained properties due to indexation – (5) (5) – (4) (4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (6) (6) – – –
Restatement of deferred tax liability for 
change in UK tax rate – (10) (10) – (16) (16)
3 (62) (59) 1 (40) (39)
†
  The £32 million deferred tax credit on movements in valuation of the pub estate includes the tax effect of  
£39 million of the £165 million exceptional movement in valuation of the pub estate and related assets in the Income Statement 
as detailed in note 10 and a tax charge of £7 million in respect of properties disposed of, based on a tax rate of 23%. In 2012, 
the revaluation movement was £127 million, giving rise to a £32 million tax credit based on a tax rate of 25% and a tax charge 
of £11 million in respect of properties disposed of.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
80 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   80 10/12/2013   14:20:09 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
13. Taxation (continued)
d) T ax recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Movement in deferred tax liability related to revaluation of the pub estate* (10) (6)
Restatement of deferred tax liability related to revaluation of pub estate for change  
in UK tax rate (30) (17)
T ax credit in Other Comprehensive Income (40) (23)
* The movement in the deferred tax liability relating to revaluation of property and rolled over gains is calculated as follows:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Tax effect of revaluation of property and pubs sold and awaiting sale (15) 1 
Movement in indexation during the year 5 (7)
T otal movement as above (10) (6)
14. Earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the loss attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the year 
of £4 million (2012: profit of £44 million) and on 499.5 million (2012: 499.4 million) shares, being the weighted 
average number of equity shares in issue during the year after excluding shares held by trusts relating to employee 
share options and shares held in treasury.
Adjusted earnings per share, which the directors believe reflects the underlying performance of the Group, is 
based on earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders adjusted for the effects of exceptional items, net of tax, 
of £95 million (2012: £102 million) and on 499.5 million (2012: 499.4 million) shares, being the weighted average 
number of equity shares in issue during the year after excluding shares held by trusts relating to employee share 
options and shares held in treasury.
Basic earnings are adjusted as follows:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit after tax (4) 44 
Exceptional finance costs:
Interest payable 4 1 
Gain on purchase of own debt (1) (13)
Movement in financial instruments – (1)
Other exceptional items:
Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment including allocation of goodwill (7) (15)
Movements in valuation of pub estate and related assets 165 127 
Administrative expenses 2 4 
Exceptional tax (64) (45)
Adjusted earnings 95 102 
For the year ended 30 September 2013, any potential ordinary shares to be included when considering diluted 
earnings per share are antidilutive. As a result there is no difference between basic earnings per share and 
basic diluted earnings per share, or between adjusted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per 
share. For the year ended 30 September 2012, diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year of  
£44 million and adjusted profit of £102 million and on 500.2 million ordinary shares, being the basic weighted 
average number of shares of 499.4 million adjusted for 0.8 million dilutive ordinary shares relating to long-term 
and short-term incentive plans. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
81 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   81 10/12/2013   14:20:10 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
15. Goodwill
2013 
£m
2012
£m
At 1 October 359 377 
Allocated to disposals (14) (18)
At 30 September 345 359
Allocation to disposals
In accordance with IAS 36 goodwill is allocated to operations disposed of, based on the relative value of the 
disposal to operations retained. Accordingly, goodwill of £14 million (2012: £18 million) has been allocated to the 
428 pubs (2012: 318 pubs) disposed of during the year.
Impairment testing
Goodwill acquired via business combinations is tested annually for impairment. For this purpose, the goodwill is 
allocated to the pub estate being a group of Cash Generating Units (CGUs), as this represents the lowest level 
within the Group that goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The impairment test compares 
the recoverable amount of the CGU with its carrying amount. The recoverable amount is determined from value 
in use calculations. 
Value in use is calculated using budgeted EBITDA and forecasts of cash flow over a three year period, as prepared 
for the Board. The three year cash flows continue to be risk adjusted to reflect a conservative outlook. They 
include the impact of the reduction in consumer spending as a result of the difficult economic conditions and have 
also been adjusted to reflect the forecast level of disposals. The key assumptions in these estimates are trading 
margin, rent projections and levels of working capital required to support trading. Key assumptions have been 
assigned values by management using estimates based on past experience and expectations of future changes in 
the market. These assumptions have been reviewed by the Board and are believed to be reasonable. Cash flows 
beyond three years are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate in operating income (2012: 2%) which was selected 
as prudently below the Group’s estimate of the long-term average growth rate. The key driver to maintaining 
the growth rate is management’s focus on selecting and supporting the best Publicans, whilst meeting the 
challenges of changing consumer demand.
The discount rate is based on the Group weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which has been risk adjusted 
to reflect current market factors which have not already been captured within the cash flows. In making this 
adjustment to the Group WACC, management have risk adjusted the cost of debt and the cost of equity by using 
an average of the highest four market risk premiums and Company betas obtained from five advisers at the year 
end date. The cost of equity has been further inflated by using a theoretical share price derived from peer group 
data. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate used in the testing at 30 September 2013 was 8.0% (2012: 8.0%). 
As of 30 September 2013, the headroom on the impairment test is £758 million, the pre-tax adjusted discount 
rate could increase to 9.11% before any impairment would be required. Management have considered the 
volatility within the current economic climate within the risk adjusted cash flow and the growth rate of any cash 
flows beyond the budget period would need to fall by 1 .3% before any impairment would be required. There is no 
impairment to goodwill in the period.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
82 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   82 10/12/2013   14:20:10 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
16. Intangible assets: operating lease premiums
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Cost: 
At the beginning of the financial year 18 18 7 7 
At the end of the financial year to 30 September 18 18 7 7 
Amortisation:
At the beginning of the financial year 7 6 2 2 
Provided during the year – 1 1 –
At the end of the financial year to 30 September 7 7 3 2 
Net book value:
At the end of the financial year to 30 September 11 11 4 5 
At the beginning of the financial year 11 12 5 5 
Lease premiums are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining life of the lease. The amortisation is 
charged to the Income Statement in the line item ‘depreciation and amortisation’. The remaining operating lease 
terms vary from 1 to 98 years.
There are 62 pubs within the Group and 39 pubs within the Parent Company attracting operating lease premiums 
in 2013 (2012: 65 pubs in the Group and 40 pubs in the Parent Company).
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
83 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   83 10/12/2013   14:20:11 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
17. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Licensed 
land and 
buildings 
£m
Landlord’s 
fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Other 
assets 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2011 4,346 245 36 4,627 
Additions 30 29 3 62 
Revaluation:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (22) – – (22)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (83) – – (83)
Write-down to fair value less costs to sell:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (18) – – (18)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (44) – – (44)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (178) (14) – (192)
Net transfers from current assets held for sale – 3 – 3 
Disposals – (6) (4) (10)
At 1 October 2012 4,031 257 35 4,323 
Additions 35 30 3 68 
Revaluation:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (55) – – (55)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (84) – – (84)
Write-down to fair value less costs to sell:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (28) – – (28)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (81) – – (81)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (91) (26) – (117)
Net transfers from current assets held for sale – 3 – 3 
Disposals – (13) (3) (16)
At 30 September 2013 3,727 251 35 4,013 
Depreciation
At 1 October 2011 12 29 14 55 
Charge for the year 2* 9 2 13 
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale – (2) – (2)
Net transfers from current assets held for sale – 2 – 2 
Disposals – – (4) (4)
At 1 October 2012 14 38 12 64 
Charge for the year 1* 12 2 15 
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale – (4) – (4)
Disposals – (6) (3) (9)
At 30 September 2013 15 40 11 66 
Net book value
At 30 September 2013 3,712 211 24 3,947 
At 30 September 2012 4,017 219 23 4,259
* Relates to finance lease amortisation.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
84 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   84 10/12/2013   14:20:12 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
17. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Company
Licensed 
land and 
buildings 
£m
Landlord’s 
fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Other 
assets 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2011 2,252 174 33 2,459 
Additions 26 15 2 43 
Revaluation:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (16) – – (16)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (47) – – (47)
Write-down to fair value less costs to sell:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (12) – – (12)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (21) – – (21)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (98) (10) – (108)
Net transfers from current assets held for sale – 2 – 2 
Disposals – (4) (4) (8)
At 1 October 2012 2,084 177 31 2,292 
Additions 20 16 2 38 
Revaluation:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (13) – – (13)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (40) – – (40)
Write-down to fair value less costs to sell:
– Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (25) – – (25)
– Recognised in the Income Statement (57) – – (57)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (98) (22) – (120)
Net transfers from current assets held for sale – 2 – 2 
Disposals – (8) (3) (11)
At 30 September 2013 1,871 165 30 2,066 
Depreciation
At 1 October 2011 5 21 14 40 
Charge for the year 1* 5 2 8 
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale – (1) – (1)
Net transfers from current assets held for sale – 1 – 1
Disposals – – (4) (4)
At 1 October 2012 6 26 12 44 
Charge for the year – 7 1 8 
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale – (3) – (3)
Disposals – (3) (3) (6)
At 30 September 2013 6 27 10 43 
Net book value
At 30 September 2013 1,865 138 20 2,023 
At 30 September 2012 2,078 151 19 2,248 
* Relates to finance lease amortisation.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
85 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   85 10/12/2013   14:20:12 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
17. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 
With the exception of properties identified for disposal the Group’s licensed land and buildings were revalued as 
at 30 September 2013 by GVA Grimley Limited and Christie & Co., independent Chartered Surveyors, and by the 
internal Asset and Valuation Director, Simon Millar MRICS, Chartered Surveyor. 
The land and buildings were valued at market value (as defined within RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards 
‘Red Book’), reflecting the current and future rent and other income streams which are expected to be generated 
by each property capitalised at an appropriate yield. The valuation also takes account of the terms of the leases 
or tenancies under which the properties are let. Market value is influenced by factors such as income, location, 
pub quality and tenure. The valuations are made with consideration given to market transactions within the UK 
pub sector.
Land and buildings are valued on an individual basis, however in order to give an indication as to the sensitivity of 
the Group revaluation, movements in both the total income stream and the average yield have been tested, each 
in isolation. All other variables are held constant in order to assess the effect on the valuation. This information 
should not be taken as a projection of likely future valuation movements as the interaction of more than one input 
to the valuation model on a pub by pub basis is actually assessed in the year end revaluation exercise. Decreasing 
the yield used in the revaluation at 30 September 2013 by 0.25% would increase the valuation of the estate by 
£97 million, increasing the yield by 0.25% would decrease the valuation by £92 million. Increasing the income 
streams used in the revaluation at 30 September 2013 by 2.5% would increase the valuation by £98 million, 
decreasing the income streams by 2.5% would decrease the valuation by £98 million.
The pubs used as security for the secured bonds and debenture in Enterprise Inns plc have been valued by 
GVA Grimley Limited (2,158 pubs) and a representative sample of pubs held by Unique Pub Properties Limited 
(Unique) has been valued by Christie & Co (200 pubs). GVA Grimley valued a further sample of pubs in Enterprise 
Inns plc (50 pubs). The balance of the estate held in Enterprise Inns plc (564 pubs) and the rest of the Unique 
estate (2,392 pubs) have been valued by the internal Asset and Valuation Director using RICS valuation guidelines. 
The results of this internal valuation have been compared to that of the external valuers. This review ensured that 
the results are consistent.
The following table provides a reconciliation of pub numbers disclosed in this note to trading pubs disclosed in 
the Chief Executive’s Review on page 09:
Property, 
plant and 
equipment
Non-
current 
assets 
held for 
sale*
Pubs 
subject 
to annual 
valuation
Add 
operating 
leases
†
T otal 
pubs
Less 
non-
viable 
pubs
T otal 
trading 
pubs
Pubs valued by GVA Grimley 
Limited 2,208 – 2,208 – 2,208 (2) 2,206
Pubs valued internally 455 109 564 243 807 (100) 707
T otal Parent Company 2,663 109 2,772 243 3,015 (102) 2,913
Pubs valued by Christie & Co 200 – 200 – 200 (3) 197
Pubs valued internally 2,363 29 2,392 29 2,421 (38) 2,383
T otal Group 5,226 138 5,364 272 5,636 (143) 5,493
* see note 21 . 
†
 not subject to valuation.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
86 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   86 10/12/2013   14:20:12 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
17. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Pubs identified for disposal which are classified in the Balance Sheet as ‘non-current assets held for sale’ are held 
at fair value less costs to sell. This value is based on the net estimated realisable disposal proceeds (ERV) which 
are provided by third party property agents who have been engaged to sell the properties.
If licensed land and buildings had been measured using the cost model, the carrying amounts would be as 
follows:
Group Company
Licensed 
land and 
buildings 
£m
Licensed 
land and 
buildings 
£m
At 30 September 2013
Cost 3,160 1,482 
Accumulated depreciation (33) (23)
Net book value 3,127 1,459 
At 30 September 2012
Cost 3,333 1,616 
Accumulated depreciation (33) (26)
Net book value 3,300 1,590 
Within the Group the carrying value of property held under finance leases at 30 September 2013 was £166 million 
(2012: £171 million). Additions during the year include £3 million to property held under finance leases (2012:  
£2 million). At 30 September 2013, the Group had entered into contractual commitments to purchase £3 million 
(2012: £4 million) of property, plant and equipment. 
Within the Parent Company the carrying value of property held under finance leases at 30 September 2013 was 
£64 million (2012: £83 million). Additions during the year include £1 million to property held under finance leases 
(2012: £1 million). At 30 September 2013, the Parent Company had entered into contractual commitments to 
purchase £2 million (2012: £2 million) of property, plant and equipment. 
18. Investments
Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 October 1,833 1,833 
Additions 1 –
At 30 September 1,834 1,833
During the year the Parent Company acquired at par 1 million non-voting cell shares of £1 each in a Harlequin 
Insurance PCC Limited Cell, being a Guernsey based captive insurance cell created on behalf of the Parent 
Company for the conduct of insurance or reinsurance business. No trade was conducted through the cell during 
the year.
The Parent Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in note 33.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
87 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   87 10/12/2013   14:20:13 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
19. Current assets held for sale
Group Company
Fixtures and fittings purchased from Publicans
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Cost
At 1 October 3 6 2 4 
Transferred to landlord’s fixtures and fittings (3) (3) (2) (2)
Additions – 5 – 3 
Disposals – (5) – (3)
At 30 September – 3 – 2
Provision
At 1 October – 1 – 1
Transferred to landlord’s fixtures and fittings – (2) – (1)
Charge for the year – 2 – 1 
Utilised during the year – (1) – (1)
At 30 September – – – –
Net realisable value – 3 – 2
20. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 40 47 28 32
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 489 463
Prepayments and accrued income 7 7 7 6
Other receivables 1 1 – 1
48 55 524 502
The ageing of trade receivables at 30 September was as follows:
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Not past due 34 43 26 31
Up to 30 days overdue 4 3 2 1
31–60 days overdue 1 1 – –
61–90 days overdue 1 – – –
More than 90 days overdue – – – –
40 47 28 32
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
88 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   88 10/12/2013   14:20:13 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
20. Trade and other receivables (continued)
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The Group is exposed to a small amount of 
credit risk that is primarily attributable to trade receivables and cash balances. The Group’s objective is to minimise 
this risk by carrying out credit checks where appropriate. The amount of trade and other receivables included in 
the Balance Sheet are net of a bad debt provision which has been determined by management following a review 
of individual receivable accounts and is based on prior experience and known factors at the Balance Sheet date 
after taking into account collateral held in the form of cash deposits. Receivables are written off against the bad 
debt provision when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
At 30 September 2013 the value of collateral in the Group is £32 million (2012: £33 million) and in the Parent 
Company is £21 million (2012: £23 million). This balance is held on the Balance Sheet in other payables.
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables is set out below. This provision relates to trade 
receivables which are primarily owed by Publicans.
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Provision as at 1 October 2 2 1 1 
Increase in provision during the year 2 2 1 1 
Provision utilised during the year (1) (1) – –
Provision released during the year (1) (1) (1) (1)
Provision as at 30 September 2 2 1 1 
There are no indications as at 30 September 2013 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect 
of the amount of trade receivables recognised in the Balance Sheet that are neither past due nor impaired. The 
maximum amount of exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of trade receivables. The Group’s credit risk on 
liquid funds is limited because the Group only invests with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings.
21. Non-current assets held for sale
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
At 1 October 46 27 20 13 
Net transfer from property, plant and equipment (note 17) 113 190 117 107 
Write-down to fair value less costs to sell (1) (2) – –
Disposals (119) (169) (107) (100)
At 30 September 39 46 30 20 
Representing:
Property, plant and equipment 39 46 30 20 
39 46 30 20 
Non-current assets held for sale comprises both freehold and leasehold licensed and unlicensed properties that 
have been identified by the Group for disposal as part of the continued disposal programme. The sale of all assets 
within this category is expected to be completed within one year of the Balance Sheet date. 
At the end of the year non-current assets held for sale in the Group includes 138 pubs which are expected to be 
sold within the next year (2012: 159 pubs). Within the Group a balance of £2 million (2012: £3 million) in relation 
to these pubs is held within the revaluation reserve representing revaluation surpluses.
At the end of the year non-current assets held for sale in the Parent Company includes 109 pubs which are 
expected to be sold within the next year (2012: 76 pubs). Within the Parent Company a balance of £2 million (2012: 
£2 million) in relation to these pubs is held within the revaluation reserve representing revaluation surpluses. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
89 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   89 10/12/2013   14:20:13 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
22. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Trade payables 47 38 47 38
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – 354 372
Accruals and deferred income 89 94 72 76
Other payables 46 48 31 29
182 180 504 515
Included within other payables in the Group is a balance of £32 million (2012: £33 million) being collateral held by 
the Group in the form of cash deposits. (See note 20).
Included within other payables in the Parent Company is a balance of £21 million (2012: £23 million) being collateral 
held by the Parent Company in the form of cash deposits. (See note 20).
23. Financial assets and liabilities
Group Company
Financial assets
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Non-current
Loans due from subsidiary undertakings (see note 33) – – 150 121
T otal financial assets – – 150 121
Group Company
Financial liabilities
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Current
Bank borrowings – 85 – 85
Corporate bonds 60 – 60 –
Securitised bonds 69 10 – –
129 95 60 85
Non-current
Bank borrowings 77 240 77 240
Corporate bonds 1,196 1,182 1,123 1,182
Securitised bonds 1,259 1,341 – –
Finance lease payables 4 4 1 2
Loans due to subsidiary undertakings (see note 33) – – 73 –
2,536 2,767 1,274 1,424
T otal financial liabilities 2,665 2,862 1,334 1,509
T otal financial assets and liabilities 2,665 2,862 1,184 1,388
‘Bank borrowings’ refers to tranche A of the existing forward start facility (see table below).  
‘Corporate bonds’ refers to a debenture, four secured bonds and an unsecured convertible bond (see table below).  
‘Securitised bonds’ refers to five secured bonds (see table below).
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
90 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   90 10/12/2013   14:20:14 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Fair values
The corporate bonds and securitised bonds were valued at fair value as at 30 September by J C Rathbone, 
independent valuers. The fair value of the corporate bonds and securitised bonds is measured at market price. 
The finance lease payables are valued by calculating the present value of the future minimum lease payments.
The nominal, book and fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been analysed into categories as below:
Group Interest rate
2013 
Nominal 
value 
£m
2013 
Book 
value
 £m
2013 
Fair 
value
£m
2012 
Nominal 
value 
£m
2012 
Book 
value 
£m
2012 
Fair 
value 
£m
Bank borrowings LIBOR + 3.5%
†
81 77 81 335 325 325 
  81 77 81 335 325 325
Corporate bonds:
Debenture – issued 3 February 1999 6% 60 60 61 60 60 59 
Secured bond – issued 9 May 2000 6.875% 125 125 119 125 124 91 
Secured bond – issued 15 February 
2001 6.875% 125 124 123 125 124 97 
Secured bond – issued 26 February 
2002 6.375% 275 273 237 275 273 190 
Secured bond – issued 3 March 2003 6.5% 600 601 618 600 601 528 
Unsecured convertible bond – issued  
10 September 2013 3.5% 97 73 97 – – –
1,282 1,256 1,255 1,185 1,182 965
Securitised bonds:
A3 – issued 30 March 1999 6.542% 433 442 444 433 444 391
A4 – issued 20 September 2002 5.659% 452 453 434 472 472 408
M – issued 30 March 1999 7 .395% 225 238 214 225 240 159
N – issued 20 September 2002 6.464% 190 195 143 190 195 101
1,300 1,328 1,235 1,320 1,351 1,059
2,663 2,661 2,571 2,840 2,858 2,349
Finance lease payables (note 25) – 4 4 – 4 4
Total debt 2,663 2,665 2,575 2,840 2,862 2,353
Cash* (144) (144) (125) (125)
Underlying net debt/net debt (note 24) 2,519 2,521 2,715 2,737
†
  A minimum of the drawn balance and £220 million of the bank borrowings have attracted incremental interest of 1% from the 
date of agreement of the new forward start facility on 31 May 2012.
*  Cash balances within the Group include £65 million held within a securitised Reserve Account. Withdrawals can only be made 
from this account with the consent of the securitised Trustee.
The nominal value of financial assets and liabilities is the principal amount. 
The book value of financial assets and liabilities includes unamortised fees, fair value adjustments made on 
acquisition and excludes the value ascribed to the equity element of the convertible loan note. 
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is the market value at the Balance Sheet date.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
91 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   91 10/12/2013   14:20:14 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
On 10 September 2013 Enterprise Funding Limited (the Issuer) issued £97 million 3.5% guaranteed convertible 
bonds due 2020 (the bonds) at par. The Parent Company has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the due 
and punctual performance by the Issuer of all of its obligations (including payments) in respect of the bonds. The 
obligations of the Parent Company, as guarantor, constitute direct, unsubordinated, unconditional and unsecured 
obligations of the Parent Company. 
Subject to their terms, the bonds are convertible into preference shares of the Issuer which are automatically 
transferred to the Parent Company in exchange for ordinary shares in the Parent Company. The bonds convert at a 
premium of 35% to the share price on 10 September 2013 of 141 .5p, which means that the bonds are convertible 
based on an exchange share price of 191 .0p into 50.8 million ordinary shares. The exchange share price is adjusted 
on the happening of certain events, including the payment of a dividend. 
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for convertible financial instruments, the proceeds received 
from the convertible bond issue have been split, with £75 million recorded as a liability and £22 million recorded 
within equity, stated net of costs of £2 million and £1 million respectively. 
The proceeds of the bond have been used to cancel the £70 million tranche A of our new forward start facility and 
will enable us to reduce the requirement for future asset disposals.
Company Interest rate
2013 
Nominal 
value 
£m
2013 
Book 
value
 £m
2013 
Fair 
value
£m
2012 
Nominal 
value 
£m
2012 
Book 
value 
£m
2012 
Fair 
value 
£m
Bank borrowings LIBOR + 3.5%
†
81 77 81 335 325 325 
 81 77 81  335 325 325
Corporate bonds:
Debenture - issued 3 February 1999 6% 60 60 61 60 60 59 
Secured bond - issued 9 May 2000 6.875% 125 125 119 125 124 91 
Secured bond - issued 15 February 
2001 6.875% 125 124 123 125 124 97 
Secured bond - issued 26 February 
2002 6.375% 275 273 237 275 273 190 
Secured bond - issued 3 March 2003 6.5% 600 601 618 600 601 528 
1,185 1,183 1,158 1,185 1,182 965
1,266 1,260 1,239 1,520 1,507 1,290
Finance lease payables (note 25) – 1 1 – 2 2 
Intercompany:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (150) (150) (150) (121) (121) (121)
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 97 73 73 – – –
Total debt 1,213 1,184 1,163 1,399 1,388 1,171 
Cash (39) (39) (25) (25)
Underlying net debt/net debt (note 24) 1,174 1,145 1,374 1,363 
†
  A minimum of the drawn balance and £220 million of the bank borrowings have attracted incremental interest of 1% from the 
date of agreement of the new forward start facility on 31 May 2012.
The bank borrowings, corporate bonds and securitised bonds are held at amortised cost. Finance lease payables 
represent the present value of future minimum lease payments. Other categories of financial instruments include 
trade receivables and trade payables. However there is no difference between the book value and fair value of 
these items.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
92 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   92 10/12/2013   14:20:15 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
The bank borrowings at 30 September 2013 comprised the drawndown balance of tranche A of the existing  
£180 million forward start facility which expires in December 2013 when the new forward start facility commences.
The new forward start facility comprises of tranches B and C each of £75 million which expire in June 2016, 
tranche A having been cancelled in September 2013. Tranche B is a term loan with tranche C being a revolving 
facility. The margin over LIBOR payable under tranche B and C are 4.5% and 4.0% respectively. The margin over 
LIBOR payable on the tranche C loan will be reduced to 3.5% following repayment of the B facility. A utilisation 
fee of 0.5% is payable if tranche C is more than 66% drawn.
Having raised funds through the issue of a convertible bond in Enterprise Funding Limited, these were on-loaned 
to Enterprise Inns plc on the same terms with an amount recorded in equity and an amount recorded as a liability.
Interest rate swaps 
Previously all of the Group’s swaps were in place to hedge cash payments made on the floating rate debt. There 
are no swaps held in the Group or Parent Company as at 30 September 2013.
Prior to cancellation the movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps has been accounted for as follows:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
At 1 October – 4 
Cancellation of interest rate swaps – (3)
Fair value movements:
– ineffective portion and swaps not designated as effective hedges  
recognised in Income Statement – (1)
At 30 September – –
Financial instruments and risk
The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank borrowings, corporate bonds, securitised 
bonds and cash. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk and liquidity risk. There is no 
currency exposure as all transactions are in Sterling. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of 
these risks and they are summarised as follows:
Liquidity risk
The Group has exposure to liquidity risk, being the risk that payments cannot be made when they fall due. The 
Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of 
bank borrowings, corporate bonds and securitised bonds.
This objective is achieved through the following processes:
 ■ regular cash flow forecasting and reporting through the treasury function;
 ■ regular review of the Group’s debt portfolio including maturities and repayment profile;
 ■ maintenance of undrawn bank facilities.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
93 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   93 10/12/2013   14:20:15 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
The proportion of nominal value of borrowings (excluding interest rate swaps, finance lease payables and 
intercompany balances) comprised: 
Group Company
2013 2012 2013 2012
Bank borrowings 3% 12% 6% 22%
Corporate bonds 48% 42% 94% 78%
Securitised bonds 49% 46% – –
The maturity of the debt and interest payments is set out below:
2013 2012
Group
Debt 
£m
Interest 
£m
T otal 
£m
Debt 
£m
Interest 
£m
Total 
£m
In more than five years 2,147 648 2,795 2,139 779 2,918 
In more than two years but not more than five years 316 436 752 437 451 888 
In more than one year but not more than two years 71 159 230 169 169 338 
In one year or less or on demand 129 165 294 95 176 271 
2,663 1,408 4,071 2,840 1,575 4,415
2013 2012
Company
Debt 
£m
Interest 
£m
T otal 
£m
Debt 
£m
Interest 
£m
Total 
£m
In more than five years 1,125 313 1,438 1,125 385 1,510 
In more than two years but not more than five years 81 224 305 211 233 444 
In more than one year but not more than two years – 79 79 99 87 186 
In one year or less or on demand 60 81 141 85 92 177 
1,266 697 1,963 1,520 797 2,317
The table above shows the contractual, undiscounted cash flows due in future periods to settle the debt and 
interest payments. The total amount of debt payable shown above differs from the total book value of debt of 
£2,665 million (2012: £2,862 million) in the Group and £1,261 million (2012: £1,509 million) in the Parent Company 
as the book value of debt includes unamortised fees, fair value adjustments made on acquisition and excludes 
the value ascribed to the equity element of the convertible loan note. The contractual maturity of trade and other 
payables is within one year. 
An analysis of minimum lease payments due under finance leases is set out in note 25.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
94 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   94 10/12/2013   14:20:15 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
The Group’s bank borrowings, secured and unsecured bonds and securitised bonds are repayable as follows:
Bank borrowings:
Tranche A of the existing forward start facility 2013
New forward start facility tranche B 2014 – 2016
New forward start facility tranche C 2016
Corporate bonds:
£60 million 6% debenture 2014
£125 million 6.875% bond 2025
£125 million 6.875% bond 2021
£275 million 6.375% bond 2031
£600 million 6.5% bond 2018
£97 million 3.5% convertible bond 2020
Securitised bonds:
A3 2013–2021
A4 2013–2027
M 2021–2024
N 2027–2032
Details of undrawn borrowing facilities available at 30 September are as follows:
Group Company
Expiring:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
In more than five years 190 190 – –
In more than two years but not more than five years 22 – 22 –
In more than one year but not more than two years 38 – 38 –
In one year or less or on demand 39 54 39 54
289 244 99 54
Group Company
The undrawn facilities relate to:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Undrawn liquidity facility 190 190 – –
Undrawn element of committed bank facility 99 54 99 54
The liquidity facility is in respect of the Unique securitisation and is a renewable committed facility of  
£190 million for a term of 364 days. The liquidity facility is available to meet certain payment obligations falling 
due in the Unique securitisation to the extent that insufficient funds are received to meet such payments. The 
Liquidity Facility is due for renewal on 26 September 2014. The facility relates to the N bonds which are repayable  
2027–2032 and therefore the facility has been disclosed as expiring in more than five years.
Further detail in respect of the Board’s considerations on liquidity including plans to repay the £60 million 
debenture due in February 2014 are disclosed within the Financial Review on pages 18 and 19 within the Capital 
Structure section.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
95 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   95 10/12/2013   14:20:16 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Interest rate risk
The Group borrows its corporate bonds and securitised bonds except for the A2N bonds (which were repaid in full 
during the 2012 financial year) at a fixed rate. Bank borrowings and cash balances attract interest at a floating rate. 
The Group’s objective is to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. This exposure is managed by borrowing 
at fixed rates on the majority of its debt. At 30 September 2013, the Group’s borrowings were 97% fixed with 
an average interest rate of 6.3% for 8 years (2012: 88% fixed at an average rate of 6.4% for 9 years). The Parent 
Company’s borrowings were 94% fixed with an average interest rate of 6.5% for 8 years (2012: 78% fixed at an 
average rate of 6.5% for 8 years).
Interest rate sensitivity
In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in 
interest rates. The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on 
profit before tax. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying 
transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, 
and further developments in global financial markets. As such the below should not be considered as a projection 
of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments.
If interest rates were to increase by 50 basis points (0.5%) the interest receivable in the Group would increase 
by £1 million (2012: £1 million) and the interest payable would increase by £1 million (2012: £3 million). If interest 
rates were to decrease by 50 basis points (0.5%) the interest receivable in the Group would decrease by  
£1 million (2012: £1 million) and the interest payable would decrease by £1 million (2012: £3 million).
If interest rates were to increase by 50 basis points (0.5%) the interest receivable in the Parent Company would 
increase by £1 million (2012: £1 million) and the interest payable would increase by £2 million (2012: £2 million). 
If interest rates were to decrease by 50 basis points (0.5%) the interest receivable in the Parent Company would 
decrease by £1 million (2012: £1 million) and the interest payable would decrease by £2 million (2012: £2 million).
Security
The bank borrowings are secured by a security deed entered into by substantially all of the companies which 
comprise the Group, excluding Enterprise Inns Holding Company Limited and its subsidiaries, Unique Pubs 
Limited and its subsidiaries and Enterprise Funding Limited. The lenders have a floating charge over all of the 
assets and undertakings of such Group companies. The floating charge ranks subsequent to the fixed charges 
created by the corporate bonds.
The total value of assets within the Group secured by way of a fixed or floating charge as at 30 September 2013 
is property, plant and equipment £3,923 million (2012: £4,232 million), operating lease premiums £11 million 
(2012: £11 million) and pubs held for sale £39 million (2012: £46 million). The value of assets within the Parent 
Company secured by way of a fixed or floating charge as at 30 September 2013 is property, plant and equipment  
£2,003 million (2012: £2,227 million), operating lease premiums £4 million (2012: £5 million) and pubs held for sale 
£30 million (2012: £20 million).
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
96 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   96 10/12/2013   14:20:16 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
The security pledged for the Group’s debt is summarised below:
Debt Instrument Security
Bank borrowings –  1st floating charge over the balance of pubs in the Parent Company not 
already secured by a 1st fixed charge created by the corporate bonds.
–  2nd floating charge over the pubs secured by a 1st fixed charge created by 
the corporate bonds.
– Share pledge over Unique Pubs Limited.
Corporate bonds (excluding the unsecured 
convertible bond)
–  1st fixed charge over the 2,206 pubs in the Parent Company valued by  
GVA Grimley Limited (see note 17).
– 2nd floating charge over the balance of pubs in the Parent Company.
Securitised bonds –  Collectively over the whole Securitisation the security incorporates a 1st 
fixed charge in favour of the Trustee over the Issuer’s right, title, interest and 
benefit, present and future to all properties, cash, eligible investments and 
income generated by Unique Pub Properties Limited.
Covenants
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities. There are four covenants 
that relate to the bank borrowings, which are tested quarterly. There are two leverage covenants and two asset 
valuation covenants. There is sufficient headroom on all four of these covenants. The covenants are the same 
under the new forward start facility.
There are two covenants that relate to the corporate bonds (excluding the unsecured convertible bond); an asset 
value covenant and a net annual income covenant. At the year end there is an annual valuation of the pub estate 
and a review of the annual income for the pubs secured under each of the corporate bonds. The valuation is 
undertaken by a firm of independent chartered surveyors. The directors certify the net annual income as part of an 
annual compliance exercise. In the event that pub values or pub incomes have fallen, there may be a requirement 
to add more pubs to the security of the corporate bonds and any addition of new pubs must be completed within 
90 days of the year end. There is sufficient headroom on both of these covenants.
There are two covenants that relate to the securitised bonds which are tested at each quarter end. These 
covenants are based solely on the assets held within the securitised bonds and comprise a net asset covenant 
and a debt service cover covenant. There is sufficient headroom in both of these covenants.
The Group tests all of the above covenants on a regular basis and forecasts are prepared during the budgeting 
process. These are reviewed at Board level.
Hierarchical classification of financial instruments measured at fair value
IFRS 7 requires that for fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet the inputs used in the valuation 
are graded using a prescribed hierarchy as described below:
Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Other techniques whereby the inputs are either directly or indirectly derived from market data.
Level 3 – Inputs used in the valuation are not based on observable market data.
The fair values disclosed in respect of corporate bonds and securitised bonds have been evaluated as level 1 
within the hierarchy described above.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
97 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   97 10/12/2013   14:20:16 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
23. Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Change of control
All of the agreements in relation to bank borrowings and corporate bonds to which the Group is party, contain 
provisions that allow the counterparties to terminate funding in certain circumstances where there has been a 
change of control of the Parent Company. These are detailed below:
Agreement Summary of change of control clause
Forward start facility agreement dated 10 May 2010  
(which will expire on 16 December 2013)
If any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control 
of the Company then the Company shall promptly notify the 
agents and lenders. If any lender so requires, it may cancel 
its commitments to the Company and require the Company to 
repay all loans outstanding to it.
Forward start facility agreement dated 31 May 2012  
(which will commence on 16 December 2013)
If any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control 
of the Company then the Company shall promptly notify the 
agents and lenders. If any lender so requires, it may cancel 
its commitments to the Company and require the Company to 
repay all loans outstanding to it.
£60 million 6% secured bonds due 2014 
£125 million 6.875% secured bonds due 2025 
£125 million 6.875% secured bonds due 2021 
£275 million 6.375% secured bonds due 2031 
£600 million 6.5% secured bonds due 2018
The terms and conditions of each of the secured bonds 
provide that following the occurrence of a restructuring event, 
which is defined in the terms and conditions to include: 
(i) any person or persons acting in concert becoming interested 
in more than 50% of the shares of the Company; or 
(ii) any person or group of connected persons acquiring control 
of the Company; or 
(iii) any person or persons acquiring the right to appoint more 
than 50% of the directors of the Company, the secured bonds 
must: 
(a) if they are not rated, after a written resolution of the 
bondholders, either be redeemed by the Company or the 
Company must successfully seek an investment grade rating 
for the secured bonds; or
(b) if they are rated and such rating is below investment grade 
or later falls below investment grade, be redeemed by the 
Company.
Unsecured convertible bond due 2020 If any person or persons, acting together, acquire(s) or 
becomes entitled to control more than 50% of the votes that 
may ordinarily be cast on a poll at a general meeting of the 
Parent Company, the holder of each bond will have the right 
to require the Issuer to redeem that bond on the change of 
control put date at its principal amount, together with accrued 
and unpaid interest up to (but excluding) such date.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
98 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   98 10/12/2013   14:20:16 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
24. Capital disclosures and analysis of changes in net debt
The capital structure is managed to support the Group’s objective of maximising long-term shareholder value 
through ready access to debt and capital markets, cost effective borrowing and flexibility to fund business and 
acquisition opportunities whilst maintaining appropriate leverage to optimise the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group is based upon management’s judgement of the appropriate balancing of all 
key elements of its financial strategy in order to meet the Group’s operational and strategic requirements. This 
includes a strategy on dividends, share buy-backs and monitoring liquidity risk. The overall financing strategy of 
the Group is presented to the Board annually as part of the budgeting exercise.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of a net debt ratio, being net debt divided by net debt plus equity. 
Net debt is defined as the book value of the Group’s debt less cash (Parent Company: excluding intercompany 
balances). Equity is defined as total shareholders’ funds.
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Total debt 2,665 2,862 1,184 1,388 
Cash (144) (125) (39) (25)
Net debt 2,521 2,737 1,145 1,363 
Equity 1,402 1,425 2,618 2,538 
Net debt ratio 64% 66% 30% 35%
25. Leases
The Group and the Parent Company as lessee
The Group and the Parent Company lease a proportion of their licensed estate from landlords under finance 
leases and operating leases. These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
Finance leases
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Future minimum lease payments due under finance leases:
After one year but not more than five years 2 2 1 1 
In more than five years 25 25 11 12 
 27 27 12 13
Future finance lease interest (23) (23) (11) (11)
Present value of future minimum lease payments 4 4 1 2 
The present value of future minimum lease payments is due in more than five years (2012: more than five years). 
Pubs that are leased from landlords under finance leases are let to tenants. Future minimum rentals receivable 
in the Group, from non-cancellable sub-leases on the above properties are £61 million (2012: £59 million). Future 
minimum rentals receivable in the Parent Company, from non-cancellable sub-leases on the above properties are 
£23 million (2012: £22 million).
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
99 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   99 10/12/2013   14:20:17 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
25. Leases (continued)
Operating leases
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Operating lease rentals recognised as an expense in the year 21 21 20 20
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Future minimum lease payments due under operating leases:
Within one year 21 20 20 19
After one year but not more than five years 82 81 78 77
In more than five years 352 370 330 348
455 471 428 444
Pubs that are leased from landlords under operating leases are let to tenants. Future minimum rentals receivable 
in the Group, from non-cancellable sub-leases on the above properties are £150 million (2012: £159 million). Future 
minimum rentals receivable in the Parent Company, from non-cancellable sub-leases on the above properties are 
£144 million (2012: £151 million).
The Group and Parent Company as lessor
The Group and the Parent Company lease its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants. The 
majority of lease agreements have terms of between 1 and 30 years and are classified for accounting purposes 
as operating leases. Most of the leases with terms of over 3 years include provision for rent reviews on either a 
3 or 5 year basis. 
The present value of future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as 
follows:
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under operating leases:
Within one year 150 160 81 87
After one year but not more than five years 491 526 258 277
In more than five years 712 799 318 345
1,353 1,485 657 709
Leases with future minimum lease rentals receivable under operating leases in more than five years within the 
Group have an average term of 14 years (2012: 14 years) remaining on their agreements and within the Parent 
Company have an average term of 12 years (2012: 12 years) remaining on their agreements.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
100 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   100 10/12/2013   14:20:17 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
26. Provisions
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
At 1 October:
Current 7 6 – –
Non-current 3 3 3 3
10 9 3 3
Movement during the year:
Increase in provision during the year 2 2 1 1
Release of provision during the year (1) (1) (1) (1)
1 1 – –
At 30 September:
Current 7 7 – –
Non-current 4 3 3 3
11 10 3 3
The current provision recognised in the Group primarily relates to a receipt from HMRC in respect of VAT. This 
amount was paid on the condition it will be returned if HMRC is successful in an appeal in respect of the Rank 
Group plc gaming machine litigation, which has been to the European Court of Justice and has now been referred 
back to the UK First Tier Tax Tribunal for a decision. There is a separate, but connected, matter being considered 
by the Court of Appeal that may also have a bearing on whether this amount is ultimately repayable, and the 
decision in that case was recently announced and found to be in favour of HMRC. However, Rank Group plc are 
in the process of appealing to the Supreme Court against that decision and litigation is likely to continue on both 
strands of this case. The Group has therefore recognised this amount as a provision pending the final outcome of 
the UK Courts’ decisions and any further litigation.
The non-current provision in both the Group and Parent Company relates to future commitments under onerous 
lease agreements. The provision is expected to be utilised over the life of leases involved or as the pubs are 
disposed of. The remaining lease terms vary from 0 to 57 years.
27. Deferred tax
The deferred tax in the Balance Sheet relates to the following:
Group Company
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Unrealised surplus on revaluation of fixed assets and rolled over 
gains 210 271 90 110 
Accelerated capital allowances 58 96 39 67 
Share-based payments (3) (1) (3) (1)
Temporary differences (1) (2) 6 –
 264 364 132 176
The UK Government reduced the rate of corporation tax by 1% from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 and 
announced its intention to reduce the rate further by 2% to 21% by 1 April 2014 and an additional 1% to 20% by 
1 April 2015. The changes in corporation tax from 23% to 20% have been substantively enacted and therefore the 
effects of these reductions have been included in the calculation of deferred tax in these financial statements. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
101 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   101 10/12/2013   14:20:17 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
27. Deferred tax (continued)
The deferred tax provision for the unrealised surplus on the revaluation of fixed assets in the Group has moved 
during the year as follows:
2013 
£m
Opening provision at 1 October 2012 271 
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to indexation credited to the Income Statement (5)
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to movements from revaluation of pub estate and disposals  
recognised in the Income Statement (14)
Reduction in deferred tax liability recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (10)
Restatement for change in UK tax rate (32)
Closing provision at 30 September 2013 210 
The Group has not provided deferred tax in relation to temporary differences associated with undistributed 
earnings of subsidiaries on the basis that under current enacted law, no tax is payable on dividends payable and 
receivable within the Group. 
28. Pension scheme
The Group and the Parent Company make defined contribution payments to employees’ own pension plans and 
these payments are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
RetailLink Management Limited (a subsidiary company that has now been liquidated as part of a Group 
reorganisation) established a pension plan for its employees in January 1999. The plan has defined contribution 
and defined benefit schemes. The plan is now closed to new members and for the future accrual of benefits. The 
preliminary results of the full valuation of the defined benefit section of the plan at 5 April 2011 have been updated 
to 30 September 2013. The valuation was carried out by Mercer, independent professionally qualified actuaries, 
using the projected unit credit method. 
In view of the relative insignificance of the pension scheme, both on a gross and net basis, the Group has elected 
to only present summarised disclosures to one decimal place in respect of the scheme.
Assets and liabilities of the plan
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Fair value of plan assets:
Equities 4.7 13.2 
Bonds 19.7 8.6 
Cash 0.1 0.2 
24.5 22.0 
Present value of plan liabilities (24.4) (22.6)
Net pension surplus/(deficit) 0.1 (0.6)
The present value of plan liabilities relates to funded plans.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
102 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   102 10/12/2013   14:20:18 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
28. Pension scheme (continued)
Movement in surplus/(deficit) during the year 
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Net deficit at the start of the year (0.6) (0.7)
Employer contributions 1.1 0.9 
Net expense recognised in the Income Statement (0.3) –
Actuarial loss on plan assets (0.1) (0.8)
Net pension surplus/(deficit) at the end of the year 0.1 (0.6)
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
2013 
%
2012
%
Rate of increase in pension payments 3.70 3.50
Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 2.40 2.20
Discount rate 4.55 4.60
Inflation assumption 3.40 2.80
Expected return on plan assets:
 Equities –* 5.90
 Bonds –* 3.10
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
 Men 24 years 24 years
 Women 26 years 26 years
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners
 Men 26 years 26 years
 Women 28 years 28 years
*  Following adoption of IAS19R for the financial year ended 30 September 2014 the interest income on plan assets will be based 
on the discount rate applied to plan liabilities instead of expected return on plan assets.
The mortality tables used to value the plan’s liabilities are S1NA light tables adjusted for CMI improvements 
subject to a minimum annual long-term improvement of 1 .25% p.a. for current pensioners and for future retirees 
(with a -1 year age adjustment for females). These tables give a life expectancy as set out above.
The history of the plan for the current and prior years is as follows:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fair value of plan assets 24.5 22.0 19.3 19.3 18.0 
Present value of plan liabilities (24.4) (22.6) (20.0) (19.7) (19.1)
Net surplus/(deficit) 0.1 (0.6) (0.7) (0.4) (1 .1)
Experience adjustments on plan assets 1.0 1 .3 (1 .0) 0.7 0.6 
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (1.1) (2.1) (0.1) (1 .1) (1 .0)
The results of the triennial valuation in 2011 are still being finalised with the scheme actuaries. The Parent 
Company is currently negotiating a revised funding strategy in respect of its existing and on-going obligations 
in relation to the defined benefit section of the scheme. At 30 September 2013 no revised formal schedule of 
future contributions has been agreed, however current indications are that contributions during the year ended 
30 September 2014 will be approximately £3 million.
Since the acquisition of the defined benefit scheme on 31 March 2004, the total amount of actuarial gains and 
losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is a loss of £3.6 million (2012: £3.5 million loss).
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
103 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   103 10/12/2013   14:20:18 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
29. Share capital 
2013 2012
Authorised:
No. £m No. £m
Ordinary shares of 2.5p each 1,000,000,000 25 1,000,000,000 25
2013 2012
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
 No. £m No. £m
Ordinary shares of 2.5p each 555,977 ,435 14 555,977 ,435 14
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to vote at meetings.
At 30 September 2013, the Group owned 50 million (2012: 50 million) of its own shares as treasury shares with a 
nominal value of £1 million (2012: £1 million) and a market value of £72 million (2012: £32 million). In addition, at 
30 September 2013 the Group held 6,498,869 shares with a nominal value of £0.2 million and a market value of 
£9 million (2012: 6,585,399 shares, nominal value £0.2 million, market value £4 million). These shares are held by 
the Employee Benefit Trust and are shares used to satisfy awards made under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans 
and other share option schemes (note 30).
30. Share-based payments
The Group operates share-based payment schemes for both directors and other employees. Details of the 
Deferred Share Award and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which form part of the remuneration of the executive 
directors are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61 . 
The Group also operates an Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS), a Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(SAYE) and a Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
A total expense of £2 million (2012: £2 million) has been incurred in the year in relation to share-based payments. 
This expense relates wholly to the equity-settled schemes described above.
Share Incentive Plan
The SIP is open to all employees. At times determined by the Parent Company, employees may allocate the lower 
of £1,500 or 10% of pre-tax salary to purchase shares out of their salary. The Board may also decide to award 
matching shares. The shares are held in trust on behalf of the employee. If shares are removed from trust within 
three years, any allocation of matching shares may be lost. Shares can be transferred tax-free to employees after 
a period of five years. Matching shares were awarded every year from 2005 to 2013.
The cost of the matching shares is being spread over the three year vesting period of the scheme. 
Details of the number of matching shares held in trust during the year are as follows:
2013 2012
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,040,292 788,142 
Granted 217 ,694 666,894 
Vested (286,806) (357 ,223)
Forfeited/expired (16,096) (57 ,521)
Outstanding at end of year 955,084 1,040,292 
Weighted average remaining contractual life 1.2 years 1 .5 years
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
104 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   104 10/12/2013   14:20:18 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
30. Share-based payments (continued)
Employee Share Option Scheme 
The ESOS is open to all employees. Share options are awarded to employees at the discretion of the Board. 
The current intention of the Board is to issue options with an exercise price equal to the market value of a 
share at grant date. Options will normally vest after three years if an employee remains in service and if EPS 
targets are met. For options granted during the year ended 30 September 2012 options will only vest in full if 
adjusted EPS is 23.4 pence for the year ended 30 September 2014. For options granted during the year ended  
30 September 2013 options will only vest in full if adjusted EPS is 21.2 pence for the year ended 30 September 
2015. Options may normally only be exercised during the period of seven years commencing on the third 
anniversary of the date of grant of the option. Options will usually be settled using ordinary shares held by the 
Employee Benefit T rust. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2013 2012
 Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
£
Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
£
Outstanding at beginning of year 16,771,119 1.08 17 ,377 ,167 1 .35
Granted 6,744,100 0.96 6,403,500 0.37
Exercised – – – –
Forfeited/expired (6,552,492) 1.04 (7 ,009,548) 1.12
Outstanding at end of year 16,962,727 1.08 16,771,119 1 .08
Weighted average remaining contractual life 7 .9 years 7 .8 years
Options outstanding at 30 September 2013 comprise the following:
Exercise date 
Number 
of share 
options
Exercise 
price
£
Exercisable:
08/12/06-08/12/13 38,714 2.45
07/12/07-07/12/14 122,096 3.51
18/05/08-18/05/15 145,260 3.79
06/12/08-06/12/15 785,876 4.45
1,091,946
Not yet exercisable:
08/12/12-08/12/19 4,339,713 1.17
15/12/13-15/12/20 4,939,023 0.37
12/12/14-12/12/21 150,000 0.65
16/05/15-16/05/22 6,442,045 0.96
15,870,781
16,962,727
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year under the ESOS was £0.36 (2012: £0.20).
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
105 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   105 10/12/2013   14:20:18 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
30. Share-based payments (continued)
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
The SAYE scheme is open to executive directors and employees at the discretion of the Board. Participants 
contract to save a fixed amount each month with a savings institution for a period of five years (previously a seven 
year scheme has also been offered). At the end of the savings term, participants are given the option to purchase 
shares at a price set before the savings began. The option price will be not less than 80% of the market value 
of a share on the date that participants are invited to take part in the scheme, or the nominal value of a share if 
lower. Options will usually be settled using ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and will usually be 
exercisable for six months after the fifth or seventh anniversary of the commencement of the savings contract. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2013 2012
 Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
£
Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
£
Outstanding at beginning of year 5,782,450 0.32 3,388,487 0.58
Granted 574,552 0.54 5,286,704 0.24
Exercised (103,525) 0.32 (36,096) 0.41
Forfeited/expired (526,905) 0.44 (2,856,645) 0.49
Outstanding at end of year 5,726,572 0.33 5,782,450 0.32
Weighted average remaining contractual life 3.5 years 4.4 years
Options outstanding at 30 September 2013 comprise the following:
Exercise date 
Number 
of share 
options
Exercise 
price
£
01/02/12-01/08/14 1,128 4.67
01/02/14-01/08/16 924,709 0.51
01/02/15-01/08/17 41,056 1.00
01/02/16-01/08/18 69,113 0.80
01/02/17-01/08/19 4,129,954 0.24
01/02/18-01/08/18 560,612 0.54
5,726,572
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year under the SAYE scheme was £0.67  
(2012: £0.27).
Deferred Share Award and LTIP
Executive directors are eligible to participate in a Deferred Share Award (previously described as the STIP) and an 
LTIP plan. A summary of the rules of these schemes along with details of shares that have been granted and are 
outstanding in relation to individual directors is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61 . 
Other members of the executive management team are also eligible to participate in a Deferred Share Award 
scheme. Share awards vest based on achievement of personal objectives and/or Group EPS targets. Shares 
awarded vest equally on the first and second anniversary of fulfilment of performance targets.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
106 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   106 10/12/2013   14:20:19 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
30. Share-based payments (continued)
Details of the total number of share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2013 2012
LTIP 
Number 
of share
options
Deferred 
Share 
Award 
Number 
of share 
options
LTIP
Number 
of share 
options
Deferred 
Share 
Award 
Number 
of share 
options
Outstanding at beginning of year 5,962,758 3,277 ,833 8,189,211 4,985,156 
Granted 2,711,007 913,002 2,393,724 816,743 
Exercised – – – –
Forfeited/released (1,593,006) – (4,620,177) (2,524,066)
Outstanding at end of year 7 ,080,759 4,190,835 5,962,758 3,277 ,833 
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.9 years 1.8 years 2.9 years 2.6 years
The share price at which the number of shares granted under the Deferred Share Award scheme is calculated, is 
not confirmed until after the date of the approval of the accounts. The maximum number of Deferred Share Award 
shares granted during the year is therefore estimated using the closing share price on 30 September 2013. The 
number of shares granted in 2012 has been amended to show the actual number granted in 2012.
Where the conditions are not met the shares are shown in the forfeited/released line.
Directors pay £1 to exercise awards granted under the Deferred Share Award and the LTIP .  This is a one-off 
charge. All of the shares outstanding at 30 September 2013 are not yet exercisable.
The weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year under the Deferred Share Award was £1.45 
(2012: £0.76 restated for actual number of shares granted in 2012) and under the LTIP was £0.69 (2012: £0.19).
The weighted average share price on exercise of shares and share options under all schemes during the year was 
£1 .10 (2012: £0.60).
Fair value of share schemes
The fair value of equity-settled share options and share awards granted is estimated at the date of grant using 
share option valuation models. The ESOS, SAYE and Deferred Share Award schemes are valued using the 
Black-Scholes model. The element of the LTIP scheme that relates to non-market conditions is valued using the 
Black-Scholes model. The element of the LTIP that includes market conditions is valued using the Monte-Carlo 
Simulation Model. 
The following tables list the inputs to the models for options and shares granted during the year:
ESOS SAYE
Weighted average: 2013 2012 2013 2012
Share price (£) 0.96 0.37 0.93 0.39
Exercise price (£) 0.96 0.37 0.54 0.24
Dividend yield 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
Expected volatility 53% 81% 76% 73%
Risk-free interest rate 0.42% 0.50% 1.06% 1 .05%
Expected life of option (years) 3.3 3.3 5 5 or 7
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
107 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   107 10/12/2013   14:20:19 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
30. Share-based payments (continued)
Deferred Share Award LTIP
Weighted average: 2013 2012* 2013 2012
Share price (£) 0.96 0.48 0.96 0.29
Exercise price (£) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Dividend yield 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
Expected volatility 69% 72% 67% 77%
Risk-free interest rate 0.59% 0.59% 0.63% 0.79%
Expected life of option (years) 2–4
†
2–4
†
3–5
‡
3–5
‡
*  The share price at which the number of shares granted under the Deferred Share Award scheme is calculated is not confirmed 
until after the date of the approval of the accounts. The maximum number of Deferred Share Award shares granted during 
the year is therefore estimated using the closing share price on 30 September 2013. The 2012 weighted averages have been 
amended to reflect the actual number of shares granted in 2013.
†  The Deferred Share Award for the executive directors vests in 4 years, the Deferred Share Award for the executive management 
vests in two equal tranches after 2 and 3 years.
‡ The LTIP vests in three equal tranches after 3, 4 and 5 years.
Expected share price volatility is based on historic volatility over the same period of time as the vesting period of 
the option. For the LTIP the expected life of an option is based on historical data.
The LTIP will only vest in full if a TSR target is met. This is a market condition and the TSR performance criteria 
have therefore been taken into account when calculating the fair value of the options granted under the LTIP .  
These conditions have been incorporated into the Monte-Carlo Simulation model which is used to fair value the 
TSR element of the scheme. 
31. Reserves
Share premium account
This reserve represents the amount of proceeds received for shares in excess of their nominal value of 2.5 pence 
per share.
Revaluation reserve
This reserve shows the surplus generated on revaluation of the estate. It represents the amount by which the fair 
value of the estate exceeds its historic cost net of related tax.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve arose on the repurchase and cancellation of own shares in 1995/96, 2005/06, 2006/07 and 2007/08.
Merger reserve
This reserve arose as a consequence of the acquisition of Century Inns plc in 1998/99.
T reasury share reserve
This reserve shows the cost of own shares purchased by the Parent Company and held as treasury shares. These 
shares can be cancelled or re-issued.
Other reserve
In the Group this comprises the cost of shares in the Parent Company that are held by the Employee Benefit Trust 
and the equity component of the convertible bond. The shares in the Employee Benefit Trust are used to satisfy 
awards made under share incentive plans (note 30).
In the Parent Company this comprises the cost of shares in the Parent Company that are held by the Employee 
Benefit Trust and the equity component of the on-loan of the funds raised in Enterprise Funding Limited through 
the convertible bond. This reserve also includes the increase in fair value of subsidiaries recorded at fair value under 
IAS 27 and the dividends received from Enterprise Pubs Five Limited that cannot be distributed outside the Group.
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
108 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   108 10/12/2013   14:20:19 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
31. Reserves (continued)
In the year ended 30 September 2013, £36 million has been reclassified from other reserves to the profit and loss 
account in the Parent Company following an adjustment to the carrying value of investments prior to transition 
to IFRS.
32. Additional cash flow information
a) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Increase in cash in the year 19 11 
Cash outflow from change in debt 176 232 
Issue costs of new long-term loans 2 8 
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 197 251 
Amortisation of issue costs and discounts/premiums on long-term loan (8) (7)
Gain on purchase of own debt 1 13 
Amortisation of the fair value adjustments of securitised bonds 5 5 
Movement in other reserve arising on convertible bond issue 21 –
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps – 4 
Movement in net debt in the year 216 266 
Net debt at start of year (2,737) (3,003)
Net debt at end of year (2,521) (2,737)
b) Analysis of net debt
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Bank borrowings (81) (335)
Corporate bonds (1,282) (1,185)
Securitised bonds (1,300) (1,320)
Gross debt (2,663) (2,840)
Cash 144 125 
Underlying net debt (note 23) (2,519) (2,715)
Capitalised debt issue costs 15 21 
Fair value adjustments on acquisition of bonds (34) (39)
Convertible bond reserve 21 –
Finance lease payables (4) (4)
Net debt (note 23) (2,521) (2,737)
Balance Sheet:
Current financial liabilities (129) (95)
Non-current financial liabilities (2,536) (2,767)
Cash 144 125 
Net debt (2,521) (2,737)
Underlying net debt represents amounts repayable to banks and other lenders net of cash retained in the business.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
109 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   109 10/12/2013   14:20:19 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
33. Related party transactions
Compensation of key management personnel
2013 
£000
2012
£000
Short-term employee benefits 2,255 2,564
Post-employment benefits 345 344
Share-based payments 1,764 1,004
4,364 3,912
Key management personnel comprises both executive and non-executive directors.
Short-term employee benefits comprise fees, salaries, benefits and performance-related bonus as reported in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Post-employment benefits comprise payments made to the directors’ own 
personal pension schemes and salary supplements in lieu of contributions. Share-based payments comprise 
the fair value of Deferred Share Award and LTIP share awards charged in the year. Further information about the 
remuneration of individual directors is available in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61 .
Principal subsidiaries
The Parent Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in the following table. The list comprises those companies 
that principally affect the results or financial position of the Group.
Country of 
incorporation Holding
Proportion of voting 
rights and shares held Nature of business
Indirectly held by Enterprise 
Inns plc:
Unique Pub Properties 
Limited
England Ordinary shares 100% Ownership of 
licensed properties
The Unique Pub Finance 
Company plc
England Ordinary shares 100% Financing acquisitions 
of licensed property
Cumulative 
Redeemable 
Preference shares
100%
Directly held by Enterprise 
Inns plc:
Enterprise Funding Limited Jersey Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Parent Company transactions with subsidiary undertakings
The Parent Company enters into loans with its subsidiary undertakings which attract interest at varying levels. Net 
interest on these loans was £29 million (2012: £27 million).
The following loans were outstanding at the year end:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Loans due from subsidiary undertakings 150 121
Loans due to subsidiary undertakings (73) –
77 121
Notes to the Accounts
at 30 September 2013
110 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   110 10/12/2013   14:20:20 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
33. Related party transactions (continued)
Having raised funds through the issue of a convertible bond in Enterprise Funding Limited, these were on-loaned 
to Enterprise Inns plc on the same terms with an amount recorded in equity and an amount recorded as an 
intercompany loan.
The Parent Company entered into other trading transactions with its subsidiary undertakings of £59 million (2012: 
£62 million) which includes an Asset Management Fee and a Procurement Fee. During the year the Parent 
Company sold property, plant and equipment at book value for consideration of £15 million to its subsidiary, 
Unique Pub Properties Limited.
The following balances were outstanding at the year end:
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 489 463 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (354) (372)
135 91 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
111 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   111 10/12/2013   14:20:20 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Enterprise Inns plc 
We have audited the financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2013 which comprise 
the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and 
Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and 
Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In 
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report. 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements 
and consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and, the efforts of the 
engagement team, including the more senior members of the team:
 ■ the valuation of the pub estate, including those assets held for sale;
 ■ the calculation of the deferred tax provision, in respect of that element of the provision associated with the 
revaluation of the pub estate;
 ■ the impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill; and
 ■ the continued use of the going concern assumption.
Revenue recognition and the risk of fraud arising from management override of internal control have been addressed.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of 
misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements. For the purposes of determining whether the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes 
it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, 
would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a lower level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to 
reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements 
exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we 
judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole. We determined materiality for the Group to be  
£6.1 million, which is approximately 5% of adjusted pre-exceptional pre-tax profit. We use pre-exceptional profit to 
exclude the impact of exceptional items which do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group. 
112 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   112 10/12/2013   14:20:20 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, 
our judgement is that performance materiality for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely £3.0 million. Our 
approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected audit 
differences does not exceed our materiality of £6.1 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of  
£0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Enterprise operates from a single office and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering all of 
its operations. There are four legal entities accounting for 100% of the Group’s revenue, 100% operating profit and 
100% of total assets, one being the Company itself, and all of which were subject to full scope audits for the year 
ended 30 September 2013. The audits of these entities are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to 
a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the relevant scale of the business concerned.
The audit of all the companies within the Group is undertaken by the Group audit team. Due to the nature of the 
main risk areas noted above, the Group audit team is supported by experts in property valuations, taxation and the 
evaluation of a weighted average cost of capital.
The principal way in which we scoped our response to the risks noted above was as follows:
 ■ We performed detailed sample testing whereby individual movements in pub values were investigated and 
validated.
In order to select a sample focused more on those pub valuations we considered to be most at risk of misstatement, 
we analysed features including the trading performance of the individual pub, the nature of the rent agreement 
and management’s qualitative analysis of pubs within the overall estate to identify those pubs, or classes of pubs, 
where the movement in value was not consistent with our expectations.
In addition, together with our valuation expert, we met with the internal and external valuers to discuss and 
challenge the methodology adopted, the nature and extent of the work they performed in preparing the valuations, 
and to seek explanations for the movement in the value of the pub estate as a whole, movement in the value of 
appropriate sub divisions of the pub estate, and where necessary, movement in the value of individual pubs.
 ■ Through the use of a combination of known scenarios and a randomly selected sample across the estate, we 
reperformed the calculation of deferred tax to validate the ability of the model utilised by the Group to calculate 
deferred tax on the pub estate and to ensure that the model has been established to correctly apply current 
tax legislation and enacted tax rates. We also challenged the overall proof of tax prepared by management on a 
performance statement basis and challenged whether movements in the year were in line with our expectations 
and investigated those that were not.
 ■ We examined the Group’s forecast cash flows which underpin both the goodwill impairment review and the 
going concern assessment, discussed those forecasts with management and challenged their reasonableness 
taking into account the accuracy of previous forecasts and the evidence supporting underlying assumptions. 
We challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions of discount rate and long-term growth underlying 
the goodwill impairment review, through a combination of benchmarking against comparator companies and an 
independent assessment by our experts based on general market indicators.
We also recalculated the forecast compliance with the terms of the covenants to which the Group and subsidiaries 
are subject, taking account of the relevant terms of the securitised debt structure. 
 ■ We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition and in particular the timing of revenue 
recognition, the treatment of discounts and changes due to the new agreements with individual Publicans. We 
also performed substantive testing and analytical procedures to validate that the revenue recognition procedures 
adopted complied with IFRS; and 
 ■ Finally, we performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of fraud 
arising from management override of controls, which in addition to the risks disclosed above, focused on those 
elements of working capital capable of being manipulated by management. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
113 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   113 10/12/2013   14:20:20 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
 ■ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 30 September 2013 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
 ■ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union;  
 ■ the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 ■ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
 ■ the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 ■ the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
 ■ materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 ■ apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or 
 ■ is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 ■ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 ■ the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 ■ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 ■ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 ■ the directors’ statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern; and 
 ■ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and 
 ■ certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration. 
Nigel Meredith 
Senior statutory auditor 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP ,  
Statutory Auditor
Birmingham 
18 November 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Enterprise Inns Plc
114 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   114 10/12/2013   14:20:20 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 5
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue 639 692 711 758 818
Operating profit 296 322 350 387 433
Profit before tax & exceptional items 121 137 157 175 208
(Loss)/profit after tax (4) 44 24 26 6
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 19.0 20.5 23.4 25.9 30.7
Year ended 30 September
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Non-current assets 4,303 4,629 4,961 5,377 5,760 
Current assets* 231 229 210 209 219 
Current liabilities (328) (298) (269) (292) (368)
Non-current liabilities (2,804) (3,135) (3,505) (3,887) (4,236)
Net assets 1,402 1,425 1,397 1,407 1,375 
* Includes non-current assets held for sale.
Five Year Record
Year ended 30 September
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
115 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   115 10/12/2013   14:20:20 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Range
Number of 
Shareholders % Shares held %
1–1,000 556 32.40 257 ,847 0.05
1,001–10,000 671 39.10 2,568,213 0.46
10,001–50,000 225 13.11 5,295,860 0.95
50,001–100,000 49 2.86 3,703,880 0.67
100,001–150,000 28 1 .63 3,530,097 0.63
150,001–500,000 70 4.08 19,279,828 3.47
500,001–1,000,000 36 2.10 26,254,982 4.72
1,000,001–5,000,000 58 3.38 133,010,341 23.92
5,000,001 and over 23 1 .34 362,076,387 65.13
T otal 1,716 100 555,977 ,435 100
The total numbers of shares held above include 50,000,000 shares held in treasury and 6,498,869 held in an Employee 
Benefit T rust.
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders
at 30 September 2013
116 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   116 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 5
Annual General Meeting
Will be held at 11 .00 a.m. on Thursday 6 February 2014 at 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ.
Financial calendar
Interim management statement – 6 February 2014 
Interim results announcement – 13 May 2014 
Interim management statement – 7 August 2014 
Annual results announcement – 18 November 2014 
Annual General Meeting – 5 February 2015
Shareholder enquiries
Enquiries relating to shareholdings should be made to the Company’s Registrars, Computershare Investor Services 
PLC. If you have a query regarding your shareholding please contact them direct by using the dedicated telephone 
enquiry line 0870 889 4080. You can also use the Registrar’s website to check and maintain your records. Details can 
be found at www-uk.computershare.com/investor.
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
Electronic communications
The Company has introduced innovative ways of communicating to shareholders electronically via eTree, an 
environmental incentive programme. For full details and to register to receive future communications electronically 
please visit www.etreeuk.com/enterpriseinns.
Share dealing service
The Registrars offer a share dealing service which allows you to buy and sell the Company’s shares if you are a UK 
resident. You can deal in your shares on the internet or by telephone. Log onto www.computershare.com/dealing/uk 
or call 0870 703 0084 for more details on this service.
ShareGift
If you only have a small number of shares whose value makes it difficult to sell, you may wish to consider donating 
to charity through ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme. For further details please contact 
Computershare or ShareGift, telephone + 44 (0) 20 7930 3737 or visit www.sharegift.org.
Shareholder Information
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
117 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   117 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Share price information
The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Share price information can be found on the 
website enterpriseinns.com or through your broker.
ISIN Number GB00B1L8B624 
SEDOL Number B1L8B62 
EPIC Number ETI
Registered office
If you would like to contact us:
Enterprise Inns plc 
3 Monkspath Hall Road 
Solihull 
West Midlands 
B90 4SJ
Telephone: 0121 733 7700 
Email: investorrelations@enterpriseinns.com
Company number
2562808
Advisers:
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP , No. 1 Colmore Square, Birmingham, B4 6HQ
Banker
Lloyds TSB Bank plc, 33 Old Broad Street, London, EC2N 1HZ
Stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB 
Barclays Capital, 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, E14 4BB
Solicitor
CMS Cameron McKenna LLP , Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD
Financial public relations
Tulchan Communications Group Ltd, 85 Fleet Street, London, EC4Y 1AE.
Shareholder Information
118 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   118 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 5
This notice is important and requires your immediate 
attention. If you are in any doubt about the action you 
should take, you should immediately consult your 
stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or 
other independent financial adviser duly authorised 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The 2014 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns 
plc (the “Company”) will be held at the offices of 
the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West 
Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a.m. on 6 February 2014 for 
the following purposes:
Ordinary Resolutions
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary 
resolutions:
1. To receive the directors’ report and the audited 
accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013 and 
the auditors’ report on the accounts.
2. To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the 
year ended 30 September 2013 (other than the part 
containing the directors’ remuneration policy).
3. To approve the directors’ remuneration policy 
contained in the directors’ remuneration report for 
the year ended 30 September 2013.
4. To re-elect Robert Walker as a director.
5. To re-elect Simon Townsend as a director.
6. To re-elect Neil Smith as a director.
7. To re-elect David Maloney as a director.
8. To re-appoint Peter Baguley as a director.
9. To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the 
Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the 
next Annual General Meeting of the Company. 
10. To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & Y oung 
LLP’s remuneration as auditors of the Company.
11. T o authorise the directors generally and unconditionally 
pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares 
in the Company and grant rights to subscribe for or 
to convert any security into shares in the Company 
(together “relevant securities”) up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £8,432,957 .24 comprising:
(a) an aggregate nominal amount of £4,216,478.62 
(whether in connection with the same offer or 
issue as under (b) below or otherwise); and
(b) an aggregate nominal amount of £4,216,478.62, 
in the form of equity securities (within the 
meaning of section 560(1) of the Companies 
Act 2006) in connection with an offer or issue by 
way of rights, open for acceptance for a period 
fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary 
shares (other than the Company) on the register 
on any record date fixed by the directors in 
proportion (as nearly as may be) to the respective 
number of ordinary shares deemed to be held 
by them, subject to such exclusions or other 
arrangements as the directors may deem 
necessary or expedient in relation to fractional 
entitlements, legal or practical problems arising 
in any overseas territory, the requirements of any 
regulatory body or stock exchange or any other 
matter whatsoever,
such authority to expire (unless renewed, varied or 
revoked by the Company in general meeting) on the 
earlier of fifteen months from the date this resolution 
is passed and the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, except that 
the Company may before such expiry make any offer 
or agreement which would or might require relevant 
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors 
may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or 
agreement as if such authority had not expired.
Special Resolutions
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolutions, which will be proposed as special resolutions:
12. To empower the directors pursuant to section 570 
of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities 
(as defined in section 560(1) of that Act) for cash 
pursuant to the general authority conferred on them 
by resolution 11 above and/or to sell equity securities 
held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 
727 of that Act, in each case as if section 561(1) of 
that Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, 
provided that this power shall be limited to:
(a) any such allotment and/or sale of equity securities 
in connection with an offer or issue by way of 
rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue, open 
for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, 
to holders of ordinary shares (other than the 
Company) on the register on any record date 
fixed by the directors in proportion (as nearly as 
may be) to the respective number of ordinary 
shares deemed to be held by them, subject to 
such exclusions or other arrangements as the 
directors may deem necessary or expedient 
in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or 
practical problems arising in any overseas 
territory, the requirements of any regulatory 
body or stock exchange or any other matter 
whatsoever; and
Notice of Annual General Meeting
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
119 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   119 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
(b) any such allotment and/or sale, otherwise 
than pursuant to paragraph (a) above, of equity 
securities having an aggregate nominal amount 
or, in the case of other equity securities, giving 
the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant 
shares having an aggregate nominal amount, not 
exceeding the sum of £694,971 .78.
This authority shall expire, unless previously revoked 
or renewed by the Company in general meeting, at 
such time as the general authority conferred on the 
directors by resolution 11 above expires, except that 
the Company may at any time before such expiry 
make any offer or agreement which would or might 
require equity securities to be allotted or equity 
securities held as treasury shares to be sold after such 
expiry and the directors may allot equity securities 
and/or sell equity securities held as treasury shares 
in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the 
power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
13. To authorise the Company generally and 
unconditionally to make market purchases (as defined 
in section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of its 
ordinary shares of 2½ pence each provided that in 
doing so it: 
(a) purchases no more than 75,846,017 ordinary 
shares of 2½ pence each in aggregate; 
(b) pays not less than 2½ pence (excluding expenses) 
per ordinary share of 2½ pence each; and
(c) pays a price per share that is not more (excluding 
expenses) per ordinary share than the higher of: 
(i) 5% above the average of the middle market 
quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from 
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for 
the five business days immediately before the 
day on which it purchases that share; and (ii) the 
price stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back 
and Stabilisation Regulation (EC 2273/2003).
This authority shall expire fifteen months after the 
date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
of the Company to be held in 2015, except that the 
Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary shares 
under this authority before it expires, complete the 
purchase wholly or partly after this authority expires.
14. To authorise the directors to call a general meeting of 
the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, 
on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
The directors believe that the proposals in resolutions 
1 to 14 are in the best interests of shareholders as 
a whole and they unanimously recommend that you 
vote in favour of all the resolutions.
On behalf of the board
L T ogher 
Company Secretary 
9 December 2013
Registered office: 
3 Monkspath Hall Road 
Solihull 
West Midlands  
B90 4SJ
Registered in England and Wales No. 2562808
Notice of Annual General Meeting
120 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   120 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 5
Notes
1. A member who is an individual is entitled to attend, 
speak and vote at the meeting or to appoint one or 
more other persons as his proxy to exercise all or any 
of his rights on his behalf. Further details of how to 
appoint a proxy, and the rights of proxies, are given in 
the paragraphs below. A member that is a company 
can appoint one or more corporate representatives 
(such as a director or employee of the company) 
whose attendance at the meeting is treated as 
if the company were attending in person, or it can 
appoint one or more persons as its proxy to exercise 
all or any of its rights on its behalf. In each case, a 
person attending the meeting will need to provide the 
Company or its registrars, Computershare Investor 
Services PLC, with evidence of their identity and, if 
applicable, their appointment as a proxy or corporate 
representative with authority to vote on behalf of a 
member. 
2. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy 
in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided 
that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
attached to a different share or shares held by that 
shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder 
of the Company. To appoint a proxy or proxies, 
shareholders must complete: (a) a form of proxy, sign 
it and return it, together with the power of attorney 
or other authority (if any) under which it is signed, 
or a notarially certified copy of such authority, to 
the Company’s registrars, Computershare Investor 
Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, 
BS99 6ZY; or (b) a CREST Proxy Instruction (as set 
out in paragraph 11 below); or (c) an online proxy 
appointment at www.eproxyappointment.com (you 
will need to enter the Control Number, together with 
your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number 
printed on your personalised form of proxy), in each 
case so that it is received no later than 11.00 a.m. 
on 4 February 2014. To appoint more than one proxy, 
you will need to complete a separate proxy form in 
relation to each appointment. A personalised form of 
proxy for use in connection with the Annual General 
Meeting is enclosed with this document. If you do 
not have a personalised form of proxy and believe that 
you should, please contact the Company’s registrars, 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 889 
4080 or at Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY . 
3. You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the 
number of shares in relation to which the proxy is 
appointed. A failure to specify the number of shares 
each proxy appointment relates to, or specifying 
a number of shares in excess of those held by the 
member, will result in the proxy appointment being 
invalid.
4. The return of a completed proxy form, other such 
instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as 
described in paragraph 11 below) will not prevent a 
shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting 
and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so. 
5. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of 
the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the 
appointment submitted by the most senior holder will 
be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in 
which the names of the joint holders appear in the 
Company’s register of members in respect of the 
joint holding (the first-named being the most senior).
6. Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is 
a person nominated under section 146 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights (a 
“Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement 
between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/
she was nominated, have a right to be appointed (or 
to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the 
Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has 
no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to 
exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, 
have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as 
to the exercise of voting rights. 
7. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation 
to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1, 2 and 
3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons. The 
rights described in these paragraphs can only be 
exercised by shareholders of the Company.
8. Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives 
notice that only those shareholders included in the 
register of members of the Company at 6.00 p.m. on 
4 February 2014 or, if the meeting is adjourned, in the 
register of members at 6.00 p.m. on the day which 
is two days before the day of any adjourned meeting, 
will be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual 
General Meeting in respect of the number of shares 
registered in their names at that time. Changes 
to entries on the share register after 6.00 p.m. on  
4 February 2014, or, if the meeting is adjourned, in 
the register of members at 6.00 p.m. on the day 
which is two days before the day of any adjourned 
meeting, will be disregarded in determining the 
rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual 
General Meeting.
9. As at 9.00 a.m. on 9 December 2013, the Company’s 
issued share capital comprised 555,977 ,435 ordinary 
shares of 2½ pence each. Each ordinary share carries 
the right to one vote at a general meeting of the 
Company and, therefore, the total number of voting 
rights in the Company as at 9.00 a.m. on 9 December 
2013 is 555,977 ,435.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
121 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   121 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
10. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy 
or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy 
appointment service may do so for the Annual General 
Meeting and any adjournment(s) of the meeting by 
using the procedures described in the CREST Manual 
(available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). CREST 
personal members or other CREST sponsored 
members, and those CREST members who have 
appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their 
CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will 
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
11. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made 
using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate 
CREST message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) 
must be properly authenticated in accordance with 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, 
and must contain the information required for such 
instruction, as described in the CREST Manual. The 
message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the 
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy 
must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be 
received by the Company’s agent (ID 3RA50), by the 
latest time for receipt of proxy appointments set out 
in paragraph 2 above. For this purpose, the time of 
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined 
by the timestamp applied to the message by the 
CREST Applications Host) from which the Company’s 
agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to 
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST . After this 
time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed 
through CREST should be communicated to the 
appointee through other means.
12. CREST members and, where applicable, their 
CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should 
note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not 
make available special procedures in CREST for 
any particular messages. Normal system timings 
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to 
the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the 
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to 
take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal 
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed 
any voting service provider(s), to procure that his 
CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) 
such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a 
message is transmitted by means of the CREST 
system by any particular time. In this connection, 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in 
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual 
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system 
and timings.
13. Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, 
members meeting the threshold requirements 
set out in that section have the right to require 
the Company to publish on a website a statement 
setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the 
Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report 
and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before 
the Annual General Meeting; or (ii) any circumstance 
connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing 
to hold office since the previous meeting at which 
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance 
with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company may not require the shareholders 
requesting any such website publication to pay its 
expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Where the Company is 
required to place a statement on a website under 
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 
forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not 
later than the time when it makes the statement 
available on the website. The business which may be 
dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes 
any statement that the Company has been required 
under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
publish on a website.
14. Any member attending the meeting has the right 
to ask questions. The Company must answer any 
such question relating to the business being dealt 
with at the meeting but no such answer need be 
given if: (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure 
of confidential information; (b) the answer has already 
been given on a website in the form of an answer to a 
question; or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the 
Company or the good order of the meeting that the 
question be answered.
15. If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your 
ordinary shares in the Company, please forward 
this annual report and accounts to the purchaser or 
transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person 
through whom the sale or transfer was effected for 
transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
16. The service agreements of the executive directors 
and copies of the letters of appointment of the non-
executive directors are available for inspection during 
normal business hours on any weekday (excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays) at the 
registered office of the Company and will be available 
for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to and during 
the Annual General Meeting.
17. You may not use any electronic address provided in 
this Notice, or any related documents including the 
proxy form, to communicate with the Company for 
any purposes other than those expressly stated.
18. A copy of this Notice, and other information required 
by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be 
found at www.enterpriseinns.com.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
122 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   122 10/12/2013   14:20:21 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 5
The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to be held on 6 February 2014 is set out on 
pages 119 to 122 of the annual report and accounts. 
The following notes provide an explanation as to why 
the resolutions set out in the notice are to be put to 
shareholders.
Resolutions 1 to 11 are ordinary resolutions. These 
resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the 
votes cast for or against are in favour.
Resolution 1 – Laying of accounts
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to 
present to the shareholders of the Company at a general 
meeting the reports of the directors and auditors, and 
the audited accounts of the Company, for the year ended 
30 September 2013. The report of the directors and the 
audited accounts have been approved by the directors, 
and the report of the auditors has been approved by the 
auditors, and a copy of each of these documents may 
be found in the annual report and accounts, starting at  
page 02. 
Resolutions 2 and 3 – Directors’ 
remuneration report and directors’ 
remuneration policy
Following changes to the Companies Act 2006 which took 
effect on 1 October 2013, the directors’ remuneration 
report is now divided into two parts: an annual statement, 
which is shown on page 45 of the annual report and 
accounts, and an annual report on remuneration, which 
starts at page 51 of the annual report and accounts 
(together the “annual remuneration report”), and the 
directors’ remuneration policy (the “remuneration 
policy”), which starts at page 45 of the annual report  
and accounts.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to seek 
shareholder approval of the annual remuneration report 
on an annual basis. This is sought in resolution 2.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires the Company to 
seek shareholder approval of the remuneration policy at 
its first AGM after the coming into effect of the relevant 
changes to the Companies Act 2006. This is a binding 
policy and, after it takes effect, the directors will not be 
entitled to remuneration unless such remuneration is 
consistent with the approved policy from time to time 
or shareholders otherwise approve the remuneration. 
Approval of the policy is sought in resolution 3 and, if 
approved, the policy will take effect from the end of the 
AGM. The Company is then required to seek shareholder 
approval of a remuneration policy at least every three 
years.
Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7 – Re-election  
of directors
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, all of the directors of the Company (other than 
Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray who are retiring) will 
stand for re-election. Biographical information for the 
directors is shown on page 34 of the annual report and 
accounts. Details of why the Board believes that the 
relevant directors should be re-elected are included in 
the corporate governance report in the annual report and 
accounts, starting at page 35.
Resolution 8 – Director appointed since 
the last Annual General Meeting
The Company’ s articles of association require that directors 
appointed by the Board must seek re-appointment at the 
next following AGM. Accordingly, Peter Baguley is retiring 
and is seeking re-appointment. Biographical information 
for Peter Baguley is shown on page 34 of the annual report 
and accounts. Details of why the Board believes he should 
be re-appointed are included in the corporate governance 
report in the annual report and accounts, starting at  
page 35.
Resolution 9 – Auditors’ re-appointment 
The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be 
appointed at each general meeting at which accounts 
are laid, to hold office until the next such meeting. 
The resolution seeks shareholder approval for the  
re-appointment of Ernst & Y oung LLP . The Audit Committee 
keeps under review the independence and objectivity of 
the external auditors, further information on which can be 
found in the annual report and accounts on page 41 . After 
considering relevant information, the Audit Committee 
recommended to the Board of directors that Ernst & 
Young LLP be re-appointed.
Resolution 10 – Auditors’ remuneration
This resolution gives the directors the authority to 
determine the remuneration of the auditors for the audit 
work to be carried out by them in the next financial year. 
The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditors for 
the next financial year will be disclosed in the next audited 
accounts of the Company.
Resolution 11 – Authority to the directors 
to allot shares
The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors may 
only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so. 
Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the directors to 
allot shares and to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert 
securities into, shares up to a maximum nominal amount 
of £8,432,957 .24, which represents an amount which is 
approximately equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company as at 9 December 2013 
(excluding treasury shares), the latest practicable date 
prior to the publication of the notice. The Company did 
not issue any shares during the period under review but, 
pursuant to the terms of convertible bonds issued by a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, agreed to issue 
up to 50.8 million shares on conversion of the bonds.
Explanatory Notes to the Notice
of Annual General Meeting
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
123 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   123 10/12/2013   14:20:22 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
As provided in paragraph (a) of the resolution, up to half 
of this authority (equal to one-third of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company) will enable directors to allot 
and issue new shares in whatever manner (subject to pre-
emption rights) they see fit. Paragraph (b) of the resolution 
provides that the remainder of the authority (equal to a 
further one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company) may only be used in connection with a rights 
issue in favour of ordinary shareholders. As paragraph (a) 
imposes no restrictions on the way the authority may be 
exercised, it could be used in conjunction with paragraph 
(b) so as to enable the whole two-thirds authority to be 
used in connection with a rights issue.
The authority will expire at the earlier of the date that 
is fifteen months after the date of the passing of the 
resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company.
Passing resolution 11 will ensure that the directors 
continue to have the flexibility to act in the best interests 
of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new 
shares. There are no current plans to issue new shares 
except in connection with employee share schemes and 
on conversion of the bonds.
As at 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date 
prior to the publication of the notice, the Company had 
555,977 ,435 ordinary shares of 2½ pence each in issue 
and held 50,000,000 treasury shares, which is equal to 
approximately 9.88% of the issued share capital of the 
Company (excluding treasury shares) as at that date.
Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 are special resolutions. 
These resolutions will be passed if not less than 75% 
of the votes cast for and against are in favour.
Resolution 12 – Partial disapplication of 
statutory pre-emption rights
The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the Company 
issues new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, 
it must first offer them to existing shareholders in 
proportion to their current holdings. It is proposed that 
the directors be authorised to issue shares for cash and/
or sell shares from treasury up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £694,971.78 (representing approximately 
5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as 
at 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior to 
the publication of the notice) without offering them to 
shareholders first in order to raise a limited amount of 
capital easily and quickly if needed. The resolution also 
modifies statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, 
regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a 
rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue. For example, 
the Company having to offer shares to shareholders in 
certain jurisdictions can result in significant compliance 
obligations and compliance with such obligations may be 
time consuming and costly. If resolution 12 is passed, this 
authority will expire at the same time as the authority to 
allot shares given pursuant to resolution 11 .
The directors consider this authority necessary in order 
to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as 
they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the 
resolution.
Resolution 13 – Purchase of own shares 
by the Company
If passed, this resolution will grant the Company 
authority for a period of up to fifteen months after the 
date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares 
in the market. The resolution limits the number of shares 
that may be purchased to 14.99% of the Company’s 
issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at  
9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the 
publication of the notice. The price per ordinary share 
that the Company may pay is set at a minimum amount 
(excluding expenses) of 2½ pence per ordinary share and 
a maximum amount (excluding expenses) of the higher 
of: (i) 5% over the average of the previous five business 
days’ middle market prices; and (ii) the higher of the price 
of the last independent trade and the highest current 
independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase 
is carried out. This authority will only be exercised if 
market conditions make it advantageous to do so.
The directors’ present intention is that shares purchased 
pursuant to this authority will be cancelled immediately 
on purchase. Alternatively, the shares may be held 
in treasury, sold for cash or (provided Listing Rule 
requirements are met) transferred to an employee share 
scheme. The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce 
the number of shares in issue. For most purposes, while 
held in treasury, shares are treated as if they have been 
cancelled (for example, they carry no voting rights and 
do not rank for dividends). The directors will only make 
purchases under this authority if they believe that to do so 
would result in increased earnings per share and would 
be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
As at 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior 
to the publication of the notice, options were outstanding 
over 26,689,503 ordinary shares of 2½ pence each in 
the Company, representing approximately 5.27% of the 
issued share capital of the Company (excluding treasury 
shares) at that date. If the proposed market purchase 
authority were used in full, shares over which options 
were outstanding would, as at that date, represent 
approximately 6.20% of the Company’s issued share 
capital (excluding treasury shares).
Resolution 14 – Approving the notice 
period for General Meetings
In order to maintain its ability to call general meetings 
(other than an Annual General Meeting) on 14 clear days’ 
notice, the Company must offer all shareholders the ability 
to appoint a proxy electronically (via the website of the 
Company or its registrars) and must obtain the approval 
of its shareholders by means of a special resolution 
passed each year. Resolution 14 seeks such approval. It 
is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed at 
future Annual General Meetings.
Explanatory Notes to the Notice
of Annual General Meeting
124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   124 10/12/2013   14:20:22 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 5
Award Winners
Pub Name Awarding body Award name
Alford Arms Frithsden The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Hertfordshire
Alford Arms Frithsden, Royal Oak 
Marlow
The Good Pub Guide Awards 2014 Pub Group of the Year
Anchor Inn Wingham The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 National Champion: Best Newcomer
Barrels Hereford CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Bay Horse Hurworth On Tees Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained
Be At One Kings Cross The Publican Awards 2013 Best Business Initiative
Bell & Cross Clent The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Worcestershire
Branksome Railway Hotel Poole CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Brickmakers Norwich The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Entertainment 
Pub
Butchers Arms Hepworth Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No. 44 ranking
Canton London Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 201 No. 16 ranking
Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained
Commercial Pudsey CAMRA Leeds Most Improved Pub of the 
Winter Season
Crab & Lobster Bembridge The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Isle of Wight
Crown Inn Heather The Shires Magazine Award of Excellence for Pub of the Year 
for the National Forest
Eagle Chatham Road Battersea CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Farmhouse Horley Britvic Community Pub Project Finalist
Fox & Grapes Wimbledon Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained
George Payne Hove The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 National Champion: Best Turnaround 
Pub
Golden Mile Inn Bridgend TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence 2013
Grafton Kentish T own Kentishowner Reader Awards Best New Opening 2012
The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Entertainment 
Pub
Granville Arms Barford Warwickshire Life and Worcestershire Life Food & 
Drink Awards 2012
Pub of the Year
Hales Bar Harrogate Harrogate’s Hospitality & Tourism Awards 2013 Shortlisted: Bar Person of the Year; 
Team of the Year
Happy Man Englefield Green CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Hare Linslade The Independent on Sunday Happy List 2013
Harwood Arms Fulham Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No. 5 ranking
Michelin Guide 2014 One star retained
Haunch Of Venison Salisbury The South Wilts Business of the Year Awards 2013 Finalist: T ourism Award
The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Managed Pub
Kingfisher Ipswich Best Bar None Ipswich Best Family Friendly Pub; 
Ipswich Best Community Venue
Lord Binning Kelsall The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Community Pub
Mall T avern Kensington Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No. 24 ranking
Mark Cross Crowborough, Friday 
Street Farm Eastbourne
The Publican Awards 2013 Highly commended: Best Food Offer 
(2-50 sites)
125 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   125 10/12/2013   14:20:22 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Pub Name Awarding body Award name
Market House Inn Cullompton The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner - Highly Commended: 
Best Partnership Pub
Maypole Thurloxton The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 National Champion: Best Community 
Pub
Monkton Inn West Monkton Somerset College Apprentice Awards Best New Business
No 5 Bridge Street Winchester The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Wine Pub
Papermakers Arms Sevenoaks TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence 2013
Parkers Arms Newton The Craft Guild of Chefs Awards 2013 Pub Restaurant Chef Award
Plough Longparish Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No. 26 ranking
Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 Special category: Gastropub Chef of 
the Y ear
Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained
Potting Shed Crudwell The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Wiltshire
Princess Of Shoreditch Hoxton Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained
Red House Caverswall This is Staffordshire Favourite Pub Food Venue
Ring O Bells Inn Thornton Bradford Means Business Awards 2013 Retail Leisure or Hospitality Business 
of the Y ear
Rising Sun Stanford-Le-Hope CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Robin Hood Aughton CAMRA Runner-up: Rotherham Pub of the Year
Royal Oak Marlow The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - 
Buckinghamshire
Royal Oak Winsford TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence 2013
So Knaresborough The National Pub Food Challenge 2013 Best Sandwich Offer
Sportsman Mogador BII Licensee of the Year 2013 Finalist
Tap And Spile Framwellgate 
Moor
CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Three Hats Milton CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Three T uns Bransgore Coastline Best of the Best Awards 2013 Best Public House
Three T uns Romsey Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained
Tolcarne Inn Newlyn Inside Cornwall Restaurant Guide 2013 West Cornwall listing
Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand awarded
Victoria East Sheen Hardens London Restaurant Guide 2013 2nd Best Modern British Restaurant 
under £50 
Waggon & Horses Hartley 
Wintney
CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Walrus Social Southwark HostelBookers Awards for Excellence 2013 One of “T op Three Acccommodations” 
in the “Best Staff” category for 
Western Europe
Wheatsheaf & Pigeon Staines The 2013 Best Thames Local Runner-up
White Hart Eltham The National Diversity Awards 2013 Nominated: Community Organisation 
Award
Windmill Hollingbourne The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Kent
Ye Olde Sun St Neots CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013
Award Winners
126 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   126 10/12/2013   14:20:22 23069.04    9 December 2013 3:29 PM    Proof 6
the Arion
Southport
the Foresters Arms
Coatham Mundeville
the Beggar & gentleman
Hoyland
the t albot
Warsop
the Marple t avern
Marple
the Plough Inn
Wellington
the Chequers
Potters Bar
the Swan Inn
Thornbury
the Bell Inn
Welford On Avon
the Sweet Olive At the 
Chequers
Aston Tirrold
the Quebec
Norwich
the Britannia Inn
Budleigh Salterton
the Rose In June
Portsmouth
the Rock Inn
Brighton
the Swan
West Wickham
the three Crowns
Bushey
the Waggon At Hale
Chatham
the l ord Nelson
Luddenden
the lion Hotel
Treorchy
Community Hero Award Winners
127
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6.indd   6 09/12/2013   17:26:43 23069.04    9 December 2013 3:29 PM    Proof 6
Enterprise Inns plc
3 Monkspath Hall Road
Solihull
West Midlands
B90 4SJ
Tel: +44 (0) 121 733 7700
Fax: +44 (0) 121 733 6447
enterpriseinns.com
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Printed on FSC
®
 certified material, sourced from well 
managed and sustainable forests.
All process waste is reused and recycled wherever 
possible, in full compliance with current legislation.
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6.indd   1 09/12/2013   17:26:47
