  1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5
STRATEGIC REPORT FC3 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
CONTENTS
 STRATEGIC REPORT
1  Key Highlights of 2013
2  Essentra at a Glance 
4 Essential Enablers
12 What We Do
14 Chief Executive’s Review 
18 Strategy and Progress
22 Financial Review 
24 Operational Review 
40 Management of Principal Risks
44 Corporate Responsibility
 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
48 Group Management Committee
50 Board of Directors
52 Chairman of the Board’s Letter
55 Corporate Governance Framework
56  Corporate Governance Report
62 Report of the Audit Committee
66 Remuneration Committee 
 Chairman’s Letter
67 Remuneration Policy Report
75  Annual Report on Remuneration
85 Other Statutory Information
88 Statement of 
 Directors’ Responsibilities
ESSENTRA BELIEVES THAT LITTLE THINGS MAKE 
THE WORLD GO ROUND. WE ARE PROUD OF 
WHAT WE DO AND WANT TO SHOW THAT EVEN 
OUR SMALLEST COMPONENTS PLAY A BIG PART.
ESSENTRA: THE ESSENTIAL ENABLERS 
2013 2013
Operating divisions Revenue Operating 
profit 
(%)
2
(%)
1,2
1 .  C om p onen t  
& Protection Solutions 28 36
2. Porous Technologies 12 16
3 .  P ac k ag i ng  
& Securing Solutions 23 20
4. Filter Products 34 27
5. Other 3 1
CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP
REVENUE
OPERATING PROFIT
1
  Before intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items
2
  Adjusted to reflect the impact of eliminations  
and excluding central costs
COMPONENT &  
PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
Providing essential products for a range  
of end-markets, including the oil and gas, 
industrial and electrical sectors.
PAGE 24
PAGE 28
PAGE 32
PAGE 36
OUR OPERATING DIVISIONS
POROUS
TECHNOLOGIES
Developing innovative solutions for essential 
everyday items, ranging from healthcare 
products to office and school consumables.
PACKAGING & SECURING
SOLUTIONS
Providing essential and innovative solutions  
for thousands of supermarket and pharmacy 
items, as well as to the point of purchase and 
paper and board industries.
FILTER PRODUCTS
Providing key components, packaging 
solutions and analytical laboratory services  
to the tobacco industry, a global market  
with growth in Asia and emerging countries.
OTHER
Supplying technical and innovative plastic 
extrusions to the industrial, construction,  
point of purchase and furniture sectors.
ESSENTRA ANNUAL REPORT 2013
This year’s report is divided into two books. 
Book 1 contains the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report, including the Chief 
Executive’s Review, the Financial Review, the 
Chairman of the Board’s Letter and the 
Remuneration Committee’s Report. Book 2 
contains the FY 2013 financial statements, 
including details of the Company’s accounting 
policies and the independent external auditor’s 
report to the members  
of Essentra plc. 444.0 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
489.6
540.7
663.4
798.1
REVENUE 
(£m)
56.2 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
75.0
84.5
104.5
130.4
OPERATING PROFIT
†,**
 
(£m)
14.8 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
21.0
25.1
31.1
38.0
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
†,**
 
(p)
ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 1
•  REVENUE GROWTH OF 20%  
(+9% LIKE-FOR-LIKE
1
) , WITH AN  
INCREASE IN ALL DIVISIONS
•  ADJUSTED
2
 OPERATING PROFIT  
UP 23%, WITH MARGIN EXPANSION  
OF 40bps TO 16.3%
• ADJUSTED
2
 EPS AHEAD 20% TO 38.0p •  NET WORKING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT  
TO 10.7 % OF REVENUE, DOWN 40bps •  NET DEBT OF £217 m , WITH STRONG  
CASH FLOW GENERATION BEING OFFSET  
BY ACQUISITION SPEND AND HIGHER 
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
•  FULL YEAR DIVIDEND +23% TO 15.4 p  
PER SHARE
•  ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE AND 
CONTINUED INVESTMENT TO UNDERPIN 
FUTURE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
+20%
+25%
+22%
Cautionary forward-looking statement 
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations 
and assumptions. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors 
may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed  
or implied by the forward-looking statement. Each forward-looking statement speaks 
only as of the date of this Report. The Company accepts no obligations to revise or 
update publicly these forward-looking statements or adjust them to future events  
or developments, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, 
except to the extent legally required.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013*: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS:
†
  On a continuing operations basis, excluding the impact of intangible  
amortisation and exceptional items, less tax relief thereon
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
*
  Figures presented in the Key Highlights are shown at  
constant exchange rates
1
 Excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals
2
  Excluding intangible amortisation and exceptional  
items, less tax relief thereon 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
COMPONENT  
& PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
The Components business is a global, market-leading 
supplier of protection and finishing products, manufacturing 
and distributing plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip moulded  
and metal items. Operating units in 25 countries serve a very 
broad industrial base of customers with a rapid supply  
of essential components for a variety of applications in 
industries such as equipment manufacturing, automotive, 
fabrication, electronics and construction.
The Pipe Protection Technologies business specialises in the 
manufacture of high performance innovative products from 
commodity resins to engineering-grade thermoplastics and 
polymer alloys for use in a range of end-markets. Locations 
in four countries, combined with a wide distributor network, 
serve customers around the world.
2013 HIGHLIGHTS
 > Balanced growth in Components and Pipe Protection 
Technologies
 > Publication of integrated regional Components catalogues
 > Launch of new supply chain hub in Europe
 > Completion of global integration of Richco, Inc. into  
Essentra Components
 > Acquisition of Mesan Kilit A.S. in Turkey and Ulinco 
Components AB in Sweden
 > Successful roll-out of a new and complementary product  
to the MaxX API compliant thread protector
 > Significant business wins in Pipe Protection Technologies
EVERY DAY WE PRODUCE AND DISTRIBUTE MILLIONS  
OF SMALL BUT ESSENTIAL PLASTIC, FIBRE, FOAM AND 
PACKAGING COMPONENTS. OUR INTERNATIONAL  
NETWORK EXTENDS TO 32 COUNTRIES.
OUR FOUR PRINCIPAL OPERATING DIVISIONS:
POROUS  
TECHNOLOGIES
A global, market-leading developer and manufacturer  
of custom fluid handling components, engineered from  
a portfolio of technologies including bonded and non-woven 
fibre, polyurethane foam and porous plastic. Representing 
leading innovations used in healthcare, consumer and 
industrial applications, its enabling components are found 
in a wide range of products from medical diagnostics tests  
to advanced wound care pads, inkjet printer cartridges, 
writing instruments, clean room wipes and air fresheners. 
Customers in over 56 countries are served from six 
manufacturing facilities, with research and development 
centres supporting the division globally.
2013 HIGHLIGHTS
 > Strong growth in writing instruments and printer systems
 > Successful commercial developments with global customers 
and market entry into China in wound care
 > Expansion in writing instruments, with strong progress in nibs 
and global roll-out of mid-tier reservoirs
 > Significant growth in products using porous plastics, boosted  
by further IP development 
 > Investment in new sterile alcohol bottling production capability  
for clean room wipes
 > Establishment of filtration technology for the transportation 
and industrial end-markets in the US and Europe
 > Launch of commercial presence in India
£223.7 m +7.3%
Revenue
(2012: £208.4m)
£100.0 m +16.6%
Revenue
(2012: £85.8m)
£52.6m +14.6%
Operating profit
1
(2012: £45.9m)
£23.5m +14.1%
Operating profit
1
(2012: £20.6m)
FURTHER DETAILS ON PAGE 24 FURTHER DETAILS ON PAGE 28
ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 3 ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE
PACKAGING  
& SECURING SOLUTIONS
A leading global provider of packaging and securing solutions 
to a diversified blue-chip customer base. The division focuses 
on delivering value-adding innovation, quality and service 
through the provision of a wide range of cartons, tapes, 
leaflets, foils, labels and brand protection security solutions, 
and primarily serves the consumer, healthcare and specialist 
packaging, point of purchase and paper and board industries.  
It is also Europe’s leading provider of identity card printers, 
systems and accessories to direct and trade customers. 
Customers in over 100 countries are served from facilities  
in ten countries, with development and design centres 
supporting the division worldwide.
2013 HIGHLIGHTS
 > Growth led by Speciality Tapes, supported by Packaging
 > Significant expansion of healthcare packaging offering,  
through the acquisition of Contego Healthcare Limited  
and Dakota Packaging Limited
 > Launch of “Packaging Resolved” positioning, aimed at  
better identifying and meeting consumer needs
 > Further geographic and range extension in Speciality Tapes
 > Successful development of innovative new products
 > Integration and consolidation of facilities, to drive further 
opportunities and efficiencies
 > Winner of prestigious packaging awards in the UK,  
China and Asia
FILTER 
PRODUCTS
The only global independent cigarette filter supplier. The nine 
worldwide locations, including a UK-based research facility 
and three regional development centres, provide a flexible 
infrastructure strategically positioned to serve the tobacco 
industry. The division supplies a wide range of value-adding 
high quality innovative filters, packaging solutions to the  
roll your own sector and analytical laboratory services for 
ingredient measurement to the industry.
2013 HIGHLIGHTS
 > Further excellent growth, supported by successful new products 
and additional services
 > Significant increase in revenue from innovative new special 
filters, and further IP development
 > Award of the largest individual contract in Essentra’s history 
from a major multinational customer
 > Award of UK government contract for smoke testing in 
Scientific Services
 > Improved capacity and capability from continued investment  
in high speed, flexible machines
 > Successful establishment of a joint venture in Dubai
£181.8 m +58.2%
Revenue  
(2012: £114.9m)
£269.9m +15.5%
Revenue
(2012: £233.6m)
£30.2m +38.5%
Operating profit
1
(2012: £21.8m)
£40.1 m +40.2%
Operating profit
1
(2012: £28.6m)
1
  Excluding intangible amortisation and exceptional items,  
less tax relief thereon
FURTHER DETAILS ON PAGE 32 FURTHER DETAILS ON PAGE 36 STRATEGIC REPORT 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 5 ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
Our production capability delivers enough tear tape to go around  
the world more than 700 times, providing easy opening, branding 
communication and security to packaging 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 7 ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE
ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
With over 20 years’ experience, our world-leading, internationally-
accredited Scientific Services laboratory offers extensive commercial 
testing and product solutions to the tobacco industry
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 7 ESSENTIAL ENABLERS 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 9 ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
With over one billion items in stock, our Components’ inventory  
and logistics infrastructure are unique assets 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 11 ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
With multi-million pound print facilities, we are well-positioned to 
deliver the very best in quality, service and reliability to our customers 
and consumers |
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
ESSENTRA OPERATES AT A COMPANY 
AND A DIVISIONAL LEVEL. THE COMPANY 
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MANAGING THE 
OVERALL PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESS 
ACTIVITIES,TO CREATE SUSTAINABLE 
LONG-TERM VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.
SHARED DIVISIONAL PRIORITIES
LEVERAGE OUR SCALE
We have a well-invested and flexible 
international sourcing, supply chain and 
production infrastructure. This allows us  
to offer businesses across the Company  
the opportunity to use our existing 
infrastructure and management to exploit 
new opportunities efficiently and cost-
effectively. Our international distribution 
network ensures the delivery of cost- 
competitive and high quality products in 
response to customers’ requirements. High 
levels of service and broad geographic reach  
are an important competitive differentiator.
WE HAVE A CLEAR MODEL FOR 
MANAGING OUR PORTFOLIO OF  
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Strategic framework
Essentra’s business and financial objectives 
are clearly defined in its Vision 2015 strategy, 
which calls for balanced, profitable organic 
growth complemented by value-creating 
acquisitions. Each of the businesses is 
responsible for contributing to Essentra’s 
overall strategic priorities, to ensure the 
Company’s ongoing success and, hence,  
the creation of sustainable long-term 
shareholder value.
Risk management and governance
Effective management of risk and 
opportunity is essential to the protection  
of Essentra’s reputation and the achievement  
of sustainable shareholder value. The Board  
of Directors is responsible for determining  
the risk appetite of the Company and  
for communicating to the organisation  
what constitutes acceptable risk-taking.  
The Board, via the Audit Committee,  
also oversees the management process  
for the identification, assessment and 
mitigation of risk across Essentra. 
OPERATE EFFICIENTLY
We have a comprehensive international 
production and distribution footprint,  
which can be flexed to respond to customers’ 
needs, whether they be product, service,  
cost or supply chain driven. Supported by 
sophisticated IT systems, we are focused on 
being a low cost producer, to secure revenue 
growth at attractive margins. Continuous 
improvement programmes, with tight  
cost control and productivity gains,  
serve to reduce conversion costs.
42
Principal manufacturing  
facilities
34.9%
Gross margin (at constant exchange)
CLEAR PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
WHAT WE DO
Talent management
Essentra’s employees are a vital resource  
in the pursuit of operational excellence  
and the provision of quality products  
and service. The skills and expertise of 
Essentra’s employees drive the innovation 
which enables the Company to provide 
added value to its customers, enhance  
supply chain logistics with its suppliers  
and reduce the environmental impact  
of its operations. The Company regularly 
reviews its organisational structure to  
ensure that the business has the necessary 
personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
Legal requirements and compliance
Essentra is committed to ensuring  
that all of its activities are conducted  
in accordance with all applicable legal  
and regulatory requirements and the  
highest standards of ethical business 
conduct. The Company’s Corporate  
Social Responsibility policy aims to  
guide stakeholders, including employees,  
on the elements that drive the conduct  
of Essentra businesses. The way in  
which Essentra does business reflects  
its commitment to profitable growth, 
sustainable development and integrity,  
and the Company’s policies continue to 
promote fair and ethical dealings with 
customers and competitors as a matter  
of law and conscience.
WHAT WE DO | |
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 13
SHARED DIVISIONAL PRIORITIES DELIVERING VALUE
BENEFIT FROM OUR EXPERIENCED 
MANAGEMENT TEAM AND TALENT BASE
We have a highly experienced and well-
regarded management team and employee 
base. Their detailed insight into customer 
needs and market trends allows us proactively 
to respond to changing priorities and to drive 
performance. Technical expertise is reflected 
in production and supply chain efficiencies 
and product innovation.
DEVELOP LONG-TERM  
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS
We develop and maintain a close  
relationship with a wide portfolio of  
blue-chip customers, who are successful 
leaders in their respective markets. The high 
standards of service and supply demanded  
by such customers help to drive continuous 
improvement across the Company. Our 
manufacturing and distribution expertise 
adds value in response to customer demands, 
and our innovative capabilities drive the joint 
development of new products and services 
with key strategic partners.
INVEST IN NEW  
PRODUCT INNOVATION
The continued successful launch and 
commercialisation of new products and  
services is a key driver of our future growth. 
Investment in research and development 
functions, supported by the identification  
of additional product sourcing opportunities  
to deliver product innovation and range 
development, provides the platform to  
further enhance our competitive positions. 
Robust quality systems maintained to 
internationally accredited standards assist 
the fulfilment of customers’ demands.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
The Company is responsible for managing  
the overall portfolio of business activities,  
to create sustainable long-term value  
for shareholders. Essentra has clear  
processes and procedures in place to  
ensure effective and efficient management 
across all of our segments.
59%
Total shareholder return
5
Research and development  
facilities
9YRS
Average service of  
senior management
64
Sales and distribution operations to  
serve our international customer base
BUILD ON OUR LEADING  
INTERNATIONAL MARKET POSITIONS
We have secured leading international  
positions in many of our served markets  
in each of our four principal operating 
divisions. With our investment in  
international infrastructure, technology, 
innovation and people, the strength of  
our businesses within their respective  
markets enables us to deliver balanced, 
profitable growth. 
WHAT WE DO 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
WELCOME TO ESSENTRA!
I am pleased to present this inaugural Annual 
Report for Essentra plc, and to report that in 
2013 we continued to make excellent progress 
towards our Vision 2015 strategic objectives.
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
In FY13, revenue increased 9% on a like-for-like 
basis, again well in excess of our Vision 2015 
objective of at least mid single-digit growth, 
and in an economic environment which was 
not without challenge.
Our strong performance was supported  
by continued product innovation, range 
expansion and investment in both existing  
and new geographies. Following an excellent 
performance in 2012, Filter Products delivered 
another noteworthy result, with like-for-like 
revenue growth of 17%. The division also 
successfully won significant new business  
for its innovative products, including  
a long-term agreement with a major 
multinational customer which is the largest 
individual contract in the Company’s history: 
this incremental revenue did not have a 
material impact on the FY13 results, as initial 
shipments only commenced at the very end  
of Q3. And, following a period of challenging 
end-markets, the backdrop for our Extrusion 
business started to improve in the second half 
of the year, with a strong uptick in orders in 
Q4. Indeed, as a leading international supplier,  
with strong R&D and engineering capabilities 
and a breadth of technical expertise, this more 
encouraging market outlook should position  
us well for further business wins through 
value-added innovation to customers.
With continued rigorous control of our cost 
base and the delivery of acquisition integration 
synergies and other savings initiatives, FY13 
adjusted operating profit was 23% ahead  
(at constant exchange), equating to a 40bps 
uplift in the margin to 16.3%. With a strong 
focus on our financing costs and a further 
200bps improvement in our tax rate, adjusted 
earnings per share (at constant exchange)  
rose 20% – again, well above our Vision 2015 
objective of at least double-digit growth. 
 
During the year we continued to invest  
in future revenue growth opportunities,  
with FY13 net capital expenditure of £44m: 
notwithstanding this spend, and benefiting 
from a further 40bps improvement in net 
working capital / revenue, we generated  
strong operating cash flow with a conversion 
ratio of 82%. And we reconfirmed our 
commitment to paying a progressive dividend, 
with a recommended 23% increase in the FY13  
payout to 15.4p per share.
Consistent with our strategy, we successfully 
completed a number of value-adding 
transactions which complemented the organic 
performance of the Company during the year. 
In February, we reported the formation of a 
joint venture (“ JV”) for our Filter Products 
division in the United Arab Emirates with BBM 
Bommidala Group, as well as the purchase  
of Ulinco Components AB (“Ulinco 
Components”) in Sweden in Component  
& Protection Solutions.
 
Then, in March, we announced the acquisition 
of Contego Healthcare Limited (“Contego”), 
a leading pan-European specialist business 
providing a range of innovative print, packaging 
and support services business to the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors.  
With a complementary offering to the  
existing capabilities of our Packaging & 
Securing Solutions division, fully accredited 
manufacturing facilities and a strong market 
position and experienced management  
team, the acquisition of Contego step  
changes the Company’s position in these 
attractive growth end-markets. At £156m, 
Contego was by far our largest transaction  
to date, and the Board was very pleased  
by the endorsement of the deal shown by 
the Company’s major shareholders through  
their strong support for the 9 .99% placing  
of ordinary shares which partially funded the 
consideration: the placing raised £142.7m in 
gross proceeds and the price of 675p per 
placing share represented a c. 2% premium  
to the previous day’s close.
In November, we complemented the 
acquisition of Contego and consolidated  
our position in the sizeable pharmaceutical 
and healthcare packaging markets in Ireland 
by purchasing Dakota Packaging Limited 
(“Dakota”). Finally, shortly before year end  
we completed the acquisition of Mesan Kilit 
A.S. (“Mesan”) , the leading Turkish manufacturer 
and distributor of a range of locks, hinges, 
latches and hardware accessories for use in  
a wide variety of attractive growth industries. 
With leading market positions and a proven 
track record of strong profitable growth, 
Mesan not only significantly enhances the 
offering in the growing hardware segment  
for our Components business, it also acts  
as a platform for the geographic expansion  
of our other activities in the region.
2013: a year of “horizontality”
Creating a more unified culture is a key 
objective of our Vision 2015 strategy, and  
we are pleased to report that we made 
significant progress towards that goal in 2013.
OUR VISION 2015 STRATEGY CONTINUES 
TO GAIN MOMENTUM AND TO DRIVE 
VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS.
DELIVERING BALANCED, 
PROFITABLE GROWTH
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
VISION 2015
“THE CONTINUED IMPLEMENTATION OF 
OUR VISION 2015 STRATEGY WILL ENABLE 
US TO DELIVER OUR GOAL OF BALANCED, 
PROFITABLE GROWTH.” FOR MORE 
INFORMATION SEE PAGES 18-21.
Rebranding to Essentra:  
the Essential Enablers
While we have progressively been working 
together in a more co-ordinated way over  
the last couple of years, nonetheless we  
were still not all using the same Company 
name and logo, and had thus never shared 
a common identity. Indeed, by the time we 
announced our intention to rebrand on 6 June 
– some eight years after coming into existence 
as an independent plc – we had become a 
collection of 14 trading brands. So, while we 
had started to operate more collaboratively, 
there was still some way to go in terms of 
creating a coherent Company-wide go-to-
market offering and platform for customer 
communication. Moreover, there was very  
little physical linkage between the operating 
brands, with each business having its own 
signage, workwear and e-mail address.  
Such a disparate approach was acting as  
a brake on our goal of creating a more 
cohesive and engaging culture for our people, 
as well as being inefficient from both a cost 
and a time perspective.
 
In summary, we strongly believed that 
maintaining the status quo was likely,  
at some point, to constrain the delivery  
of our objectives for Vision 2015 and beyond, 
and that, accordingly, rebranding was an 
important and logical milestone in the 
Company’s evolution.
Although each of our businesses manufactures 
and distributes a diverse and ostensibly 
unconnected range of products, what unites 
us as an organisation is that we are a leading 
supplier of essential components to our 
customers. As such, Essentra – an abstract 
name – was specifically chosen to capture 
what each of our businesses manufactures 
and supplies; namely millions of small but 
essential components which often play a 
critical enabling role in the products of the 
Company’s customers, everywhere and every 
day. The selection of a new brand took over  
a year of planning, extensive research and 
testing, and we believe that the new identity  
of Essentra best represents and clearly 
encapsulates what the Company does, 
is and aspires to be. 
Having formally rebranded the parent 
company to Essentra on 26 June, the individual 
businesses migrated in the second half of the 
year, with the majority of our sites being 
renamed on 14 October and the remainder by 
year-end – as scheduled. 
The Board and the Group Management 
Committee (“GMC”) are very pleased with  
the feedback which we have received to date 
on our rebranding. In terms of our customers, 
they are already gaining a greater awareness 
of the Company’s entire product and service 
offering, with more co-ordinated communication 
behind a single visual identity; while our investors 
recognise our new common platform behind 
which the entire organisation can mobilise, so 
as to continue to deliver sustained balanced 
profitable growth. 
However, it is from the perspective of our 
people – who have previously only been only 
loosely affiliated with “the Company” – that 
we are particularly encouraged, in terms of  
the way in which the Essentra brand has been 
embraced. It has also provided a catalyst for 
co-ordinating, updating and rethinking the 
way in which we communicate – both 
externally and internally, and from digital  
to printed formats – and, with the parent 
company having provided the rebranding 
guidelines and framework, we have been 
impressed by the way in which these have 
been interpreted and executed by our various 
businesses, all under the Essentra umbrella. 
Indeed, one of the areas which we have 
reinvigorated is our Corporate Values (see  
page 53): while the sentiment has not 
changed, we have taken the opportunity of 
using the prominent “E” of the Essentra logo  
to present our core beliefs in a more succinct 
and engaging way which is in keeping with  
our new communication style. 
Clearly it is still relatively early days to judge 
the success of the rebranding and the return 
on the £2.4m exceptional cost incurred in  
the process. However, we are convinced that, 
through working in a more co-ordinated  
way and leveraging our collective skills and 
capabilities under a single brand, we can 
benefit all our stakeholders. As such, the 
rebranding not only helps to underpin the 
delivery of our Vision 2015 strategic objectives 
in its final year, but also appropriately reflects 
our future ambitions. 
Moving towards a matrix  
organisational structure
It is imperative that we continue to evolve  
as Essentra becomes larger, to ensure that  
we maximise the opportunities available to  
the Company and, thus, the value we deliver  
to our shareholders.
During the year, we introduced a new 
organisational structure for our faster-growing 
opportunity markets, which has resulted in the 
appointment of dedicated General Managers 
in India, China and Latin America. Together 
with our Group Commercial Director, and  
with appropriate input from business-level 
management, these General Managers are 
responsible for maximising Essentra’s presence 
in their respective territory. As a result, we are 
now going to market in a more 
COLIN DAY
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  16 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
category-focused way, benefiting from the  
skills we have across our divisions to serve key 
customers better and to become a more 
relevant and important partner to them.
Then, towards the end of 2013 and as a logical 
next step to our more horizontal approach  
to faster-growing markets, we announced  
our intention to introduce a new regional 
organisational structure. This will supplement 
our divisional structure, and is designed as  
a growth enabler – to ensure that we operate  
in a more cohesive and co-ordinated way,  
so as to optimise and unify our investments, 
processes, resources and go-to-market  
efforts around the world. 
 
As a result, we will adopt more of a matrix 
organisational structure that will deliver 
greater in-market accountability and 
responsibility, and will better allow us to  
benefit from our collective capabilities  
and operate in a more efficient way.
The new structure groups our operations into 
three geographic regions – Europe, Americas 
and Asia – ultimately each with a small 
dedicated management team comprised  
of key business functions, including Finance, 
Commercial, Operations, Legal & Compliance 
and Human Resources. The role of these teams 
will be to drive “today’s business” in terms of 
in-market execution (ie, commercial, 
production and back office support), with the 
divisions taking responsibility for those activities 
of a longer-term, more strategic nature which 
will underpin “tomorrow’s business” (including 
planning, M&A, product innovation and range 
development).
To facilitate greater co-ordination between our 
businesses, so as to maximise the opportunities 
in each respective region, we have also decided 
to organise our divisional activities into two 
Strategic Business Units (“SBUs”): Distribution, 
which will encompass the Components business, 
and Specialist Technologies, which will include  
all our other activities.
 
A regional organisational structure has  
already been implemented by our Components 
business as well as in Health & Safety, with 
Human Resources and IT also managed along 
regional lines with effect from 1 January 2014, 
 so we have already made some progress 
towards this end. However, it is neither possible 
nor desirable to achieve these changes – which 
we expect to be cost-neutral – in one step,  
and therefore we will be phasing the 
integration process over the course of 2014.  
As 2014 will, thus, be a year of transition, we  
will retain our current divisional segment 
 analysis for the purpose of internal and  
external financial reporting.
Working together more collaboratively
In 2012, we established a number of principal 
product categories – from “industrial” to “point 
of purchase” – from which to deliver the next 
stage of our revenue expansion, and we made 
further progress in terms of exploiting existing 
– and importantly, new and innovative – 
product and cross-selling opportunities in  
2013. One such example was the launch of 
AquaSense™, a label concept developed and 
jointly patented by our Packaging and Porous 
Technologies businesses, and designed to help 
maintain and control freshness by storing and 
releasing water through its unique structure  
and material technology. An additional and 
more wide-ranging example of collaboration 
has been a Company-wide project assessing  
our collective capabilities to serve the rapidly 
growing e-cigarette market. Following 12 
months of intensive inter-divisional research into 
the industry itself and the substantial range of 
products available, we believe that as a 
Company we are well-positioned to act as a 
key supplier of high quality components – not 
merely of filters, but also of liquid / vapour 
handling solutions, extruded plastic, 
components and packaging – and will be 
seeking to commercialise our offering in 2014.
We are also increasingly either leveraging  
our site footprint in a more optimal way  
or, where we are investing in new facilities, 
ensuring that these provide opportunities  
to consolidate our respective businesses under 
one roof. In Germany, where our Components 
business required additional warehousing,  
we have successfully freed up space at Reinbek 
through transferring a portion of Filters activity 
to Hungary: this reconfiguration saved us €6m  
of capital expenditure that would have been 
incurred in building a new site. In India, our 
new 70,000 sq. ft. bespoke facility, which 
became operational in November as scheduled, 
has the capacity to accommodate 
manufacturing, warehousing and the 
appropriate infrastructure for all Essentra’s 
business activities. And our £7m newly-
constructed Components distribution centre 
at Kidlington, UK, not only allows us to deliver 
a wider choice of standard products next day, 
but will also act as a hub for servicing our UK 
and European network. 
Our Group Operations Director and  
his team are continuing to review our  
footprint, to identify further opportunities  
for rationalisation and efficiency savings 
through adopting a more Company-wide 
approach to our manufacturing and 
distribution capabilities.
Further strengthening the talent base
At all levels, our employees are a vital resource 
and we made a number of key appointments 
across the Company in 2013.
On the GMC, we welcomed Stefan Schellinger 
to Essentra as Corporate Development 
Director. Stefan brings significant mergers  
and acquisitions experience, and will be 
responsible for the development of Essentra’s 
overall strategy as well as the pipeline of 
potential transactions.
As leaders of our matrix organisational 
structure, we announced the appointment  
of Hugh Ross, Brett York, Scott Fawcett  
and Martin Dallas to the newly-created  
GMC positions of Managing Director – Europe, 
President – Americas, Managing Director – 
Distribution and Managing Director – Specialist 
Technologies respectively. We also filled the 
General Manager roles in China, India and Latin 
America to drive the development of our 
Left:
Design is a vital part of  
the packaging process, 
and our expertise in this 
area allows us to add value 
to our customers’ packs 
and help deliver a crucial 
competitive advantage
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
overall business activities in their respective 
markets, as well as created the position  
of Group Procurement Manager with 
responsibility for establishing sourcing and 
procurement strategies for Essentra and 
ensuring best cost and supply for all businesses 
and categories of spend.
 
During the year there were certain departures 
from the GMC, in addition to which Alan Tidy 
advised us of his wish to retire from his position 
as Group Human Resources Director, although  
he will continue to serve as Chairman of the 
Essentra Pension Plan Trustee Board and to 
undertake additional consultancy work for the 
Company as required following his retirement.
Alan will be succeeded by Gavin Leathem in 
March 2014. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank those fellow GMC colleagues 
leaving Essentra for their dedication and 
commitment to the successful delivery  
of our Vision 2015 strategy to date. 
Both the Essentra Management Development 
and the Graduate Development Programmes 
enjoyed further success in 2013. The two-year 
graduate programme has provided a talent 
pipeline for a number of years and, in 
December, 15 people joined the scheme  
which continues to expand its international 
reach, with graduates from Hungary, India  
and Thailand among those recruited. The 2013  
intake will join the 21 graduates recruited in  
2012, and will have the opportunity to develop 
their management skills through bespoke training 
which takes place around Essentra’s sites, giving 
graduates exposure to the business while 
carrying out an operational role from day one.
In summary, the Board and the GMC  
have no doubt that through rolling out  
our new organisational structure, we will  
be able to provide a more diverse range 
of career development opportunities across 
functions, markets and regions, which will  
help us to better attract and retain talent 
in the Company.
Reinforcing our track record in  
health and safety
Essentra’s overriding concern in the workplace 
continues to be the health, safety and welfare 
of all its employees and those who visit the 
Company’s locations, as well as those who 
carry out work on our behalf. And during the 
year, we established a regional leadership 
team to help drive further improvements in  
the standards which the Company has already 
achieved. Indeed, the appointment of Regional 
HSE Managers in Europe, Americas and Asia, 
together with a dedicated Systems Manager 
responsible for the collection, analysis and 
reporting of critical information, will not only 
provide a source of geographical expertise,  
but will also facilitate the rapid implementation 
of standards and the sharing of best practice 
across Essentra. 
As the global legislative backdrop for HSE 
continues to change apace, we believe that 
the adoption of this regional structure will 
further enhance both the quality and 
timeliness of our internal data capture and 
review systems, and thus is a critical element 
of our compliance strategy in these areas.
Our responsibilities
Essentra is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
responsibility, to ensure that the way in  
which we manage our activities reflects  
the expectations of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As a member of both the 
FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust,  
we recognise that our interaction with the 
environment and local communities is a 
critical component of the international 
reputation and quality of Essentra’s 
businesses, as well as a cornerstone of 
developing a responsible, progressive and 
winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities hold 
the ISO 14001 environmental accreditation  
and, with the exception of recently-acquired 
sites (which, as per Essentra policy have a 
period of 24 months to reach the required 
standard) they have also achieved the 
Occupational Health & Safety Management 
Systems OHSAS 18001; in respect of the latter, 
the Speciality Tapes site in Bridlington, UK 
attained the standard in 2013 as anticipated.
Attaining the ISO 50001 energy management 
standard at all our manufacturing facilities by 
the end of 2014 is a Company-wide objective, 
and we made further progress towards that 
goal during the year.
Essentra is committed to energy efficiency 
within our organisation and we have continued 
to improve our performance on this front: at 
the same time, we have also further reduced 
the environmental impact of our business in 
other aspects, with our War on Waste initiative 
delivering better utilisation – and reuse –  
of raw materials across the Company.
In summary
In the second full year of Essentra’s Vision  
2015 strategy, we made further strong  
progress towards our objectives during  
2013 – particularly in terms of implementing  
initiatives aimed at greater co-ordination  
and at leveraging more effectively our 
collective skills. In delivering these results,  
I would like to acknowledge the efforts of all 
our employees, and to thank them for their 
continued dedication and commitment. 
And as we enter the final 12 months  
of Vision 2015, we remain committed to 
continuing to evolve the business to maximise 
the potential opportunities available to the 
Company, not only to underpin the successful 
delivery of our objectives in 2014 but also our 
ability to generate long-term value for our 
stakeholders. The Board and the GMC are 
collectively engaged in formulating the 
strategy that will take Essentra beyond 2015, 
and we look forward to sharing it towards  
the end of 2014.
Outlook
The diversity of our products and end- 
markets, together with our international 
footprint, provides Essentra with a degree  
of defensiveness in an environment where 
economic recovery is still at a very early stage. 
As a result, we are well-positioned to deliver 
further balanced, profitable growth in 2014, 
and are aiming to continue to make progress 
towards our Vision 2015 objectives of at least 
mid single-digit like-for-like revenue growth 
and double-digit adjusted earnings per share 
growth, at constant exchange.
COLIN DAY
Chief Executive
20 February 2014
Above:
Our friendly and 
knowledgeable call centre 
operatives make it easy  
for our Components’ 
customers to do business 
with us 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR OBJECTIVE
Create sustainable long-term  
value for our shareholders
OUR STRATEGY AND 
OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES
Focus on strong translation  
of profit into cash
Deliver balanced, profitable 
growth in both our existing 
and future opportunity 
markets and technologies 
Prioritise volume growth  
to drive higher revenue  
and gross margin expansion
Re-invest in the business  
for future growth
PROGRESSIVE 
DIVIDEND
≥ 100% OPERATING  PROFIT 
CONVERSION TO CASH
VOLUME LEVERAGE TO DRIVE 
 GROSS MARGIN EXPANSION
50% CONVERSION TO 
OPERATING MARGIN
LIKE-FOR-LIKE REVENUE 
G R O W T H ≥  M I D 
SINGLE-DIGIT CAGR
HOW WE WILL ACHIEVE IT
Vision 2015 is an ambitious three-year 
strategy which was introduced in August 
2011, with a view to building upon the 
positive features and values of the 
Company while rekindling an appetite  
for growth behind key business objectives 
and targets. From a financial perspective, 
Vision 2015 calls for balanced profitable 
organic growth: a top-down model with 
an emphasis on strong performance 
across the board, rather than placing 
undue reliance on one particular metric 
to drive Essentra’s results. The Company 
seeks to complement this balanced, 
profitable organic growth with value-
adding acquisitions across its divisions. 
The delivery of Essentra’s strategic 
priorities is underpinned by focusing  
on key performance indicators which 
measure the Company’s progress in  
the delivery of shareholder value.
A number of these indicators are also  
used as principal elements in assessing  
the short-term and long-term performance 
of the operating businesses. Executive 
remuneration is linked to the priorities  
of Vision 2015.
OUR VISION IS TO BE A LEADING 
GLOBAL SUPPLIER OF SPECIALITY 
PLASTIC, FIBRE, FOAM AND 
PACKAGING COMPONENTS.
VISION 2015
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES
 > Manage our activities to reflect the high expectations of all our stakeholders 
 > Establish safe operational procedures, and manage our impact on the environment 
 > Attract and develop motivated and highly-skilled employees 
 > Conduct our business to the highest ethical standards
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 19
Performance measures  
for the executive Long-Term Incentive Plan
Performance measures 
for the executive annual bonus plan
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
2011
2012
2013
61.1
48.0
59.1
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (%)
2011
2012
2013
24.5
31.6
38.0
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (p)
2011
2012
2013
10.5
12.5
15.4
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (p)
2011
2012
2013
110
75
82
CASH CONVERSION (%)
2011
2012
2013
8
11
9
REVENUE GROWTH (%)
2011
2012
2013
35.9
36.1
34.9
GROSS MARGIN(%)
2011
2012
2013
15.6
15.9
16.3
OPERATING MARGIN (%)
2011
2012
2013
12.1
11.1
10.7
NET WORKING CAPITAL RATIO (%)
HOW DID WE DO?
KEY
1 
2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
2
 At constant exchange rates
3
 At constant exchange rates, excluding acquisitions and disposals
4
  At constant exchange rates, excluding the impact of intangible  
amortisation and exceptional operating items
 > Measures the Company’s ability  
to generate long-term value
 > Measures how the Company converts  
its profit into cash
 > Measures the ability of the  
Company to grow sales by  
operating in selected markets  
and geographies, and offering 
differentiated, cost-competitive  
products and services
WHAT WE MEASURE WHY WE MEASURE IT
Cash conversion
1
Operating cash flow as  
a % of operating profit
Revenue growth
3 
  
% growth in like-for-like revenue
Total shareholder return  
Total annual increase in value based on  
the increase in share price and the dividend 
paid to shareholders
 > Measures the amount of cash per  
share which the Company returns  
to shareholders
Dividend per share
% change in dividend per share
 > Measures the ability of the Company  
to finance its expansion and release  
cash from working capital
Net working capital ratio
2 
Defined as inventories plus trade & other 
receivables less trade & other payables, 
adjusted to exclude deferred consideration 
receivable / payable, interest accruals /  
capital payables and other normalising  
items, as a % of revenue
 > Measures the resources available  
for re-investment or profit growth
 > Measures the profitability  
of the Company
 > Measures the benefits generated  
for shareholders from the Company’s 
overall performance
Operating margin
1,4 
Operating profit
4
 as a % of revenue
Gross margin
2 
  
Gross profit as a % of revenue
Earnings per share
1,4 
 
% change in earnings per share
4 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
PLACE
In order to take advantage of new revenue 
growth opportunities, we look to expand  
our geographic footprint through reinforcing 
and strengthening our penetration in existing 
markets, and our presence in new or 
faster-growing economies.
PRODUCTS & MARKETS
We continually seek to develop new product 
initiatives which will help to drive future 
revenue growth. In order to continue to add 
value for our customers, we aim to leverage 
the collective capabilities of the Company  
in terms of our intellectual property and 
business know-how, and successfully 
commercialise innovative new products in 
our targeted end-markets. Range expansion 
and moving into adjacent technologies also 
provide us with growth opportunities. 
PEOPLE
Essentra’s Vision 2015 strategy is not just 
about financial performance – it is also  
about people. Indeed at all levels, our 
employees are a vital resource in the 
Company’s pursuit of operational excellence 
and the provision of quality products and 
service to our customers. As an international 
organisation, it is important that we 
attract an appropriate level of local talent 
and enhance mobility through increasing 
cross-divisional moves.
ESSENTRA’S KEY STRATEGIC 
OBJECTIVES CAN BE SUMMARISED  
AS THE “3Ps”: PLACE, PRODUCTS  
& MARKETS AND PEOPLE. THESE 
APPLY EQUALLY TO HOW WE SEEK 
TO DELIVER BALANCED, PROFITABLE 
ORGANIC GROWTH AND THE WAY  
IN WHICH WE IDENTIFY VALUE-
ADDING, COMPLEMENTARY 
ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 21 STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
PRODUCTS & MARKETS
IDENTIFY KEY NEW  
PRODUCT OPPORTUNITIES
PRODUCTS & MARKETS PLACE
FOCUS ON FASTER-GROWING  
MARKETS / ECONOMIES
PLACE PRODUCTS & MARKETS PEOPLE
IDENTIFY VALUE-CREATING, 
COMPLEMENTARY M&A OPPORTUNITIES
PRODUCTS & MARKETS PEOPLE
INVESTMENT IN IMPROVING OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE AND EXECUTION
PEOPLE
STRENGTHEN ORGANISATIONAL  
STRUCTURE AND TALENT BASE
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PROGRESS IN 2013 PRIORITIES IN 2014
 > Better leverage opportunities in 
faster-growing opportunity markets 
following adoption of a more  
co-ordinated commercial effort and 
greater in-market accountability
 > Further expansion of international 
distribution, sales and marketing 
expertise, to exploit growth opportunities
 > Successful integration of  
2013 acquisitions
 > Identify further opportunities  
across our divisions
 > Continue to grow and develop  
talent across Essentra
 > Increase intra-Company moves  
to enhance mobility
 > Attract appropriate level of talent  
for a global business
 > Continue to widen the geographic  
reach of the Management and  
Graduate Development Programmes
 > Continued investment to support  
revenue growth opportunities
 > Drive revenue growth from a more 
focused go-to-market effort by  
end-market
 > Progressive roll-out of regional 
organisational structure, to leverage 
collective capabilities better
 > Further successful exploitation  
of innovative and manufacturing 
capabilities in new technologies,  
products and services across  
the Company
 > Strategic expansion in India, with the 
opening of a new purpose-built facility
 > Greater co-ordination in China and  
Latin America
 > Further site roll-outs in both existing  
and new markets, to extend reach  
and improve penetration in  
Components and Speciality Tapes
 > Entry into opportunity markets via 
corporate activity (eg, Turkey, UAE)
 > Acquisitions of Contego and Dakota  
in Packaging & Securing Solutions
 > Acquisitions of Ulinco Components and 
Mesan in Component & Protection Solutions
 > Established UAE joint venture in  
Filter Products
 > Appointed Corporate Development 
Director, as well as regional and SBU 
Managing Directors to support the evolving 
matrix organisational structure
 > Successfully filled positions of General 
Manager in China, India and Latin  
America, and a number of other key  
roles to support Vision 2015 strategy
 > Extended geographical reach  
of the Management and Graduate  
Development Programmes
 > Continued investment in upgrading / 
adding machinery and equipment,  
and capacity expansion
 > Leveraged site footprint more optimally
 > Greater consolidation of business  
activities at individual sites
 > Continued range expansion and  
improved marketing effectiveness
 > Conversion of manufacturing know-how 
and intellectual property into commercial 
success across divisions Adjusted operating proﬁt
Non-cash items
Net working capital
Net capital expenditure
Adjusted operating cash ﬂow
Tax paid
Net interest paid
Pension contributions
Free cash ﬂow
FREE CASH FLOW RECONCILIATION 
(£m)
(43.7)
(17.5)
(9.4)
(6.1)
130.4 
25.8 
107.2 
74.2 
     (5.3)
Average Closing
FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012
US$:£ 1.57 1.59 1.66 1.63
€:£ 1.18 1.23 1.20 1.23
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
PRINCIPAL EXCHANGE RATES
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial information is prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and IFRSs as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board,  
and with the accounting policies set out on 
page 95.
Foreign exchange rates
Movements in exchange rates relative to 
sterling affect actual results as reported.  
The constant exchange rate basis adjusts  
the comparative to exclude such movements, 
to show the underlying performance of the 
Company. For the principal exchange rates for 
Essentra for the year ended 31 December 2013 
(“FY 2013”), see the table above. Re-translating 
at FY 2013 average exchange rates increases 
the prior year revenue and adjusted operating 
profit by £3.6m and £1.3m respectively.
Like-for-like basis
The term “like-for-like” describes the 
performance of the business on a comparable 
basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions, 
disposals and foreign exchange. The FY 2013 
results and the FY 2012 comparatives reflect 
the results of John R. Lyman Company and  
Big Blue Properties LLC (together “Lymtech 
Scientific” , acquired on 13 June 2012), Ulinco 
Components AB (“Ulinco Components” , 
acquired on 20 February 2013), Contego 
Healthcare Limited (“Contego” , acquired 
on 30 April 2013), Dakota Packaging Limited 
(“Dakota” , acquired on 7 November 2013)  
and Mesan Kilit A.S. (“Mesan” , acquired on  
30 December 2013). The impact of Securit 
World Limited (“Securit” , acquired on 17 
February 2012) and Jae Yong Co. Ltd (“ Jae 
Yong” , acquired on 23 April 2012) are not 
excluded from the like-for-like results as  
they are no longer separately identifiable.
Adjusted basis
The term “adjusted” excludes the impact  
of intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items, less any associated tax relief. 
In FY 2013, intangible amortisation was £14.2m 
(2012: £8.3m), and there was an exceptional 
pre-tax charge of £19 .2m (2012: £10.6m)  
mainly relating to integration costs and  
fees arising from the aforementioned 
acquisitions, and the rebranding of the 
Company to Essentra plc.
Trading performance
Full year revenue was 20.3% ahead of the  
prior year (+19 .7% at constant exchange)  
at £798.1m, with like-for-like growth of 8.7%.  
Ongoing operational initiatives, volume 
leverage and successful pricing programmes  
to mitigate input cost increases were partially 
offset by the mix effect of the very strong 
revenue growth in the lower margin Filter 
Products division. Current year acquisitions  
had a further dilutive impact such that, in 
total, the gross margin declined 100bps 
(120bps at constant exchange), to 34.9%.
On an adjusted basis, operating profit was 
ahead 24.8% (+23.2% at constant exchange)  
at £130.4m, equating to a 50bps uplift in  
the margin to 16.3% (+40bps at constant 
exchange). Operating profit as reported was 
£97 .0m, 13.3% higher than last year (+11.8%  
at constant exchange).
Net finance expense
Net finance expense was broadly unchanged 
at £10.6m (2012: £10.7m). The net interest 
charge on net debt rose to £9 .5m (2012: 
£8.5m), primarily as a result of additional  
debt taken on to finance acquisitions.  
The amortisation of bank facility fees  
decreased to £1.0m (2012: £1.3m) and the  
IAS 19 pension finance charge of £0.1m was 
lower than the prior year (2012: £0.9m).
Tax
The effective tax rate on profit before 
exceptional items and tax was 27 .4%  
(2012: 29 .4%).
Net income
Adjusted net income was up 31.3% (+29 .0% at 
constant exchange) to £86.9m. On a reported 
basis, net income of £60.3m increased 15.7% 
(+13.4% at constant exchange). Fully diluted 
adjusted earnings per share of 37 .0p was up 
23.3% (21.7% ahead at constant exchange).
Dividends
The Board of Directors recommends a  
final dividend of 10.6p per share (2012: 8.6p),  
an increase of 23.3%. This takes the FY 2013 
dividend to 15.4p per share (23.2% versus  
FY 2012).
Net working capital
Net working capital is defined as “inventories 
plus trade & other receivables less trade &  
other payables, adjusted to exclude deferred 
consideration receivable / payable, interest 
accruals / capital payables and other 
normalising items.”
Net working capital of £85.7m was £7 .7m 
higher than the 31 December 2012 level of 
£78.0m as a result of acquisitions and growth. 
The net working capital / revenue ratio reduced 
to 10.7% (2012: 11.1% at constant exchange) 
due to continued efforts to utilise the 
Company’s working capital more efficiently.
ANOTHER  
STRONG  
YEAR FOR 
ESSENTRA
FINANCIAL REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 23 FINANCIAL REVIEW
“WITH LIKE-FOR-LIKE REVENUE GROWTH 
OF 8.7%, AND ADJUSTED EPS AHEAD  
20.2% AT CONSTANT EXCHANGE, IN 2013 
WE COMFORTABLY EXCEEDED OUR VISION 
2015 TARGETS.”
Cash flow
Operating cash flow increased by 36.6%  
to £107 .2m (2012: £79 .3m). This included an 
outflow of net working capital for the year  
of £5.3m (2012: £7 .8m) and gross capital 
expenditure of £44.1m (2012: £43.8m), with  
net capital expenditure at £43.7m (2012: 
£43.2m). Net capital expenditure equated  
to 164% (2012: 191%) of the depreciation  
charge for the year of £26.7m (2012: £22.6m).
Net interest paid was £9 .4m (2012: £8.9m)  
and tax payments decreased by £0.1m to 
£17 .5m (2012: £17 .6m). The outflow in respect  
of pension obligations was lower at £6.1m 
(2012: £7 .6m). Free cash flow of £74.2m  
(2012: £44.4m) increased by 67.1%.
Net debt
Net debt at the end of the period was  
£217 .1m, an increase of £53.6m from 1 January 
2013. This reflected free cash flow of £74.2m, 
offset by dividends totalling £31.2m, net 
acquisitions of £66.0m (net of share placing) 
and foreign exchange and other items.
The Company’s financial ratios remain  
strong. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA as at  
31 December 2013 was 1.3x (31 December 2012: 
1.3x) and interest cover was 13.0x (31 December 
2012: 11.1x).
Balance sheet
At the end of 2013, the Company had 
shareholders’ funds of £398.8m (2012: 
£238.4m), an increase of 67 .3%. Net debt  
was £217 .1m (2012: £163.5m) and total  
capital employed in the business was  
£620.1m (2012: £407 .2m).
This finances non-current assets of £638.7m 
(2012: £412.2m), of which £213.7m (2012: 
£180.3m) is tangible fixed assets, the 
remainder being intangible assets, deferred  
tax assets and retirement benefit assets. 
The Company has net working capital of 
£85.7m (2012: £78.0m), current provisions  
of £12.3m (2012: £17 .5m) and long-term 
liabilities other than borrowings of £66.9m 
(2012: £47 .5m). The return on average invested 
capital (including intangibles) was 18.4%  
(2012: 21.1%), owing to acquisitions during  
the year.
Pensions
As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s  
IAS 19 pension asset was £10.6m (2012: liability 
of £3.9m) and the associated deferred tax 
liability was £1.6m (2012: deferred tax asset of 
£2.8m). The pension asset has been calculated 
after updating asset values and certain 
assumptions as at 31 December 2013.
Treasury policy and controls
Essentra has a centralised treasury  
function to control external borrowing  
and manage exchange risk. Treasury policies  
are approved by the Board and cover the 
nature of the exposure to be hedged, the  
types of financial investments that may be 
employed and the criteria for investing and 
borrowing cash. The Company uses derivatives 
only to manage foreign currency and interest 
rate risk arising from underlying business 
activities. No transactions of a speculative 
nature are undertaken.
MATTHEW GREGORY
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 
Treasury activities are is subject to independent 
reviews by the Group Assurance department. 
Underlying policy assumptions and activities 
are reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
Controls over exposure changes and 
transaction authenticity are in place, and 
dealings are restricted to those banks with  
the relevant combination of geographical 
presence and suitable credit rating. Essentra 
monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties 
and credit exposure to each counterparty.
Foreign exchange risk 
The majority of Essentra’s net assets are in 
currencies other than sterling. The Company’s 
normal policy is to limit the translation 
exposure and the resulting impact on 
shareholders’ funds by borrowing in those 
currencies in which the Company has 
significant net assets. As at 31 December 2013, 
Essentra’s US dollar-denominated assets were 
approximately 45% hedged by its US dollar-
denominated borrowings, while its euro-
denominated assets were approximately 82% 
hedged by its euro-denominated borrowings.
The majority of Essentra’s transactions are 
carried out in the functional currencies of its 
operations, and so transaction exposure is 
limited. However, where they do occur, the 
Company’s policy is to hedge the exposures  
as soon as they are committed using forward 
foreign exchange contracts.
MATTHEW GREGORY
Group Finance Director
20 February 2014 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO
The Components business is a global, 
market-leading manufacturer and distributor 
of an extensive range of plastic injection 
moulded, vinyl dip moulded and metal items. 
Operating units in 25 countries serve over 
150,000 customers with a rapid supply  
of essential components for a variety  
of applications in a very broad range of  
industries, such as equipment manufacturing, 
automotive, fabrication, electronics and 
construction.
The Pipe Protection Technologies business 
specialises in the manufacture of high 
performance innovative products from 
commodity resins to engineering-grade 
thermoplastics and polymer alloys for use  
in a range of end-markets. Locations in four 
countries, combined with a wide distributor 
network, serve customers around the world.
HOW WE DO IT
Our objective is to leverage our extensive 
product range and distribution capability, 
using our efficient sourcing and manufacturing 
operations and integrated IT platform,  
to respond to the demands of our diverse 
customer base. Our tool library, product 
development skills and manufacturing 
experience, combined with our inventory  
and logistics infrastructure, are unique assets.  
We have sophisticated business-to-business, 
multi-channel marketing expertise, and 
support this with our knowledgeable sales 
resource and comprehensive product 
catalogues, which are available in many 
languages and online.
We target organic growth through increasing 
the range of our products, expanding our 
customer base and entering new geographic 
markets. We also seek opportunities to grow 
through acquisition, where it can move  
our business into complementary product 
categories or further our geographic 
distribution capability.
COMPONENT & 
PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
THE DIVISION IS A GLOBAL, MARKET-
LEADING PROVIDER OF A RAPID SUPPLY  
OF PLASTIC AND METAL PRODUCTS FOR 
PROTECTION AND FINISHING APPLICATIONS.
Below and left:
From feet, castors  
and glides to transit 
protection, we can offer 
customers over 60,000 
products for next day 
delivery through our 
integrated, multi-
language catalogues  
and websites 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 1
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
3
2
REVENUE BY DESTINATION (%)
1. Americas 49.2
2. Europe 44.3
3. Asia including Middle East 6.5
REVENUE BY END-MARKET (%)
1. Oil and gas 21.3
2. Fabrication machinery 19.1
3. Distributors 14.6
4. Automotive 8.5
5. Electrical / Electronics 7.7
6. Hydraulics / Pneumatics 4.7
7 . Other 24.1
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 25 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
Right:
Our comprehensive 
sample offering allows 
customers to ensure our 
components meet their 
exact requirements
£223.7 m +7.3%
Revenue
(2012: £208.4m)
£52.6m +14.6%
Operating profit
1,**
(2012: £45.9m)
23.5% +150 bps
Operating margin
1
(2012: 22.0%)
HOW WE PERFORMED IN 2013
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 7 .3% (5.7% at constant 
exchange) to £223.7m. Excluding the 
acquisition of Ulinco Components in February 
2013, like-for-like growth was 4.6% and was 
driven by improved marketing effectiveness, 
the roll-out of new distribution sites and 
continued range development.
Underlying growth in the Components 
business was broad-based across key 
end-market sectors and geographies.  
The product range was expanded, with  
the addition of a further 5,000 products in  
both existing segments (including hardware, 
fasteners and cable management) as well  
as new areas such as motion control and 
vibration mounts. In addition, consolidated 
catalogues featuring our combined trading 
brand ranges were launched for the first time 
in Europe, Asia and North America; in the case 
of the latter region, this means that we now 
offer our customers over 60,000 products  
for next day delivery. Our successful roll-out 
programme continued, with the opening of 
new sites in Memphis and Greensboro, US as 
well as market entry in Mexico; the recently-
established operations in Slovakia and Austria 
also performed well.
Notwithstanding a very strong prior year 
result, Pipe Protection Technologies delivered 
further growth in 2013. As anticipated, the 
comparative performance improved in the 
second half of the year, boosted by a better 
market backdrop, encouraging business wins 
with major customers and new product 
development. The innovative and industry-
compliant MaxX range was further expanded, 
with the design and launch of a 
complementary product line to service drilling 
wellsite applications that require protectors 
which allow pipes to be lifted individually onto 
the drilling floor.
Our continued focus on efficient marketing 
investment and activity, particularly the 
increasing use of electronic marketing media, 
delivered strong lead indicators versus the 
prior year: marketing responses rose 8%,  
and the number of live accounts at the end  
of December increased to over 158,000 (+13%). 79.0 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
108.5
135.9
208.4
223.7
REVENUE 
(£m)
11.8 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
23.4
31.1
45.9
52.6
OPERATING PROFIT
1,**
(£m)
124.2 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
156.1
157.6
146.0
158.3
REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE 
(£k)
14.9 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
21.6
22.9
22.0
23.5
OPERATING MARGIN
1,**
 
(%)
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
Adjusted operating profit grew 14.6%  
(11.8% at constant exchange) to £52.6m,  
equating to a 150bps improvement in the 
margin. This uplift was driven by the continued 
successful integration and delivery of synergy 
savings from the acquisitions of Richco, Inc. 
and Ulinco Components, combined with 
ongoing operating and process efficiencies.
Complemented by value-creating M&A 
In February, we expanded our product range 
and geographic footprint with the acquisition 
of Ulinco Components. Based in Sweden, 
Ulinco Components is a leading distributor  
of plastic protection and finishing products, 
hardware and specialist masking solutions  
in the Nordic region.
On 30 December 2013, we announced  
the acquisition of 100% of the share capital  
of Mesan. Mesan is the leading Turkish 
manufacturer and distributor of a range  
of locks, hinges, latches and hardware 
accessories for use in a wide variety of end- 
markets, and significantly enhances our 
Components offering in this attractive 
segment. Additionally, with exports into more 
than 75 countries, including the Middle East  
& Africa and Asia, Mesan not only provides us 
with entry into Turkey but also into a number 
of other fast-growing markets.
2014 KEY INITIATIVES
 > Exploitation of new eCommerce platform
 > Further geographical expansion of 
Components and Pipe Protection 
Technologies businesses
 > Integration of recently-acquired  
Mesan business
 > Launch of new Components supply chain 
hubs in Singapore and Louisville, US
 > Successful delivery of new contract wins  
for Pipe Protection Technologies
 > Implementation of new CRM platform,  
to drive sales and marketing effectiveness
Further information on
www.essentracomponents.com
www.essentrapipeprotection.com
+7.3% +14.6%
+8.5% +150 bps
Improving operational excellence  
and execution
Towards the end of the year, we expanded  
our principal European Components facility  
at Kidlington, UK, with the opening of a new 
purpose-built distribution centre. Entailing  
a total investment of over £7m, the 3,500m
2
  
site will not only provide the necessary space  
to continue the rapid expansion of our product 
range, but will also allow us to make even 
greater improvements to our next day delivery 
offering through our global supply chain 
network. As such, it underscores our 
commitment to delivering a market-leading 
product range and service level to our 
customers, with the Kidlington facility not  
only serving the domestic UK market but  
also acting as a hub for our entire European 
distribution network, and allowing the 
rationalistation of smaller sites.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Number of active customers
  Why we measure it
Reflects marketing effectiveness and measures  
the potential population for future growth 
opportunities
How we have done
13.5% increase in customers purchasing in the prior  
12 months from 2012
New customer acquisition
Why we measure it
Reflects the success of targeting organic  
growth opportunities
How we have done
24.0% increase in live new customers  
compared to 2012
Marketing responses
Why we measure it
Indicates the potential revenue generating  
impact of marketing investment
How we have done 
8.3% increase in marketing responses  
versus 2012
On time in full
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet delivery demands
How we have done
90.4% compares to 92.5% in 2012
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 27 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
Given their very wide 
application, the global market 
for protection and finishing 
products is large, fragmented 
and ill-defined for both suppliers 
and customers; however, 
management estimates the 
value at in excess of £2bn pa.
Manufacturing GDP  
growth rate
With protection and finishing 
products being used in a very 
broad spectrum of industrial 
end-markets, those countries 
with a higher manufacturing 
GDP growth rate are particularly 
attractive.
Increased use of standard 
components
There is an increasing  
move to small, specialised 
manufacturing businesses, 
which assemble their specialised 
parts and equipment from a 
range of standard components. 
This approach provides them 
with flexibility, the ability to 
move quickly and provide their 
own customers with the service 
they require.
Just-in-time delivery
As customers are required  
to deliver their own products 
“just-in-time” , so their demand 
for critical components from 
their suppliers is increasingly  
on the same basis.
Increasing labour costs
Standardised manufacturing 
processes and components 
typically require less labour, 
thereby helping customers 
reduce their cost base.
There is also a trend among 
larger customers to design  
in “higher technology”  
markets such as the US, UK, 
Germany, Japan and Singapore, 
and then to manufacture in 
lower labour cost regions  
(eg, eastern Europe, China  
and India), which benefits 
component suppliers with  
global reach.
Industry specification
As end-markets become more 
sophisticated and demanding, 
so the requirement for higher 
quality components increases. 
Over and above this more 
general trend, certain customers 
– notably those in the oil and 
gas industry – are increasingly 
facing regulatory guidelines in 
terms of the specification of  
the components they use.
Key new product 
opportunities
 > Continue range expansion,  
to provide customers with  
the broadest selection  
of components
 > Develop new sectors for 
existing customer base,  
such as hardware
 > Globalise successful local 
products through established 
supply chain
 > Enter new and adjacent 
product markets, such as  
point of purchase
 > Launch products which  
are compliant with new 
industry standards
MARKET TRENDS
WHAT WE MEASURE
“WE ARE A LONG WAY FROM SATURATION IN ANY OF OUR 
MARKETS, EVEN THOSE WE HAVE BEEN IN FOR MANY YEARS.”
Above:
Use of the latest 
technology allows us  
to pick orders efficiently 
for rapid shipment to over 
150,000 customers 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
POROUS TECHNOLOGIES
THE DIVISION IS A WORLD LEADER IN THE DEVELOPMENT  
AND MANUFACTURE OF CUSTOMISED LIQUID AND VAPOUR 
HANDLING PRODUCTS ENGINEERED FROM THREE MATERIAL 
TECHNOLOGIES: BONDED AND NON-WOVEN FIBRE, 
POLYURETHANE FOAM AND POROUS PLASTIC.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW REVENUE BY END-MARKET (%)
1. Writing instruments 28.0
2. Printer systems 26.0
3. Clean room 17.5
4. Health care 16.9
5. Household products 8.8
6. Other 2.8
REVENUE BY DESTINATION (%)
1. Americas 43.8
2. Asia including Middle East 33.1
3. Europe 23.1
1
3
2
1
2
3
4
5
6
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 29 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO
Our range consists of components which  
serve as a critical part of a variety of end-
products, including medical diagnostic  
devices, wound care products, writing 
instruments, printer cartridges, air fresheners, 
cosmetic applicators and speciality wiping 
products used for critical environments such  
as clean rooms and laboratories.
HOW WE DO IT
Our objective is to leverage our technical 
expertise in collaboration with our  
customers, to provide them with innovative, 
high quality, reliable, quick-to-market  
solutions to their respective fluid and  
vapour handling challenges.
The division’s R&D teams focus on each of  
our three material technologies and constantly 
develop new intellectual property regarding 
materials, processes and applications, with  
a view to providing new and existing 
customers with unique solutions. Our 
orientation towards R&D further enables us to 
offer prototypes  
and modifications, to ensure components  
fit perfectly to our customers’ applications.
We seek to use our global footprint to provide 
our customers with shorter lead times and 
supply security. As our multiple locations  
utilise many identical proprietary processes 
and independent supply chains, we are able  
to provide a reliable source of back-up supply 
capability around the world. In addition, our 
global outlook allows us to respond to the 
various needs of our customers in differing 
geographies and cultures.
Quality is at the forefront of the division’s 
efforts, given the critical role many of our 
components play in our customers’ end-
products. Our production sites are ISO 
9001:2008 compliant, and our facility in St. 
Charles, US is also ISO 13485:2003 certified. 
Quality laboratories at each of our facilities 
provide consistency checks throughout the 
production process, to assure reliability and 
satisfaction to our customers.
HOW WE PERFORMED IN 2013
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 16.6% (14.0% at constant 
exchange) to £100.0m. Excluding the 
acquisition of Lymtech Scientific in June  
2012, as well as the transfer of a portion of 
intercompany revenue to the Filter Products 
division, like-for-like growth was 5.6%.
In writing instruments (c. 28% divisional 
revenue), an increase of 10% was driven by  
a strong result in both nibs and ink reservoirs. 
Printer systems (c. 26% divisional revenue)  
rose 9%, led by continued growth with a  
large global OEM.
Successful new product development in porous 
plastics, bonded fibre and foam in healthcare 
(c. 20% divisional revenue) was more than 
offset by the impact of a significant customer 
insourcing their wound care production, 
resulting in a decline of 3%. 
£100.0 m +16.6%
Revenue
(2012: £85.8m)
£23.5m +14.1%
Operating profit
1,**
(2012: £20.6m)
23.5% (50)bps
Operating margin
1
(2012: 24.0%)
Left:
No matter what the fluid 
handling challenge, our 
global team works around 
the clock to support our 
customers’ needs and 
deliver a solution that 
performs perfectly
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) 66.0 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
74.7
77.9
85.8
100.0
REVENUE 
(£m)
14.5 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
17.7
18.4
20.6
23.5
OPERATING PROFIT
1,**
  
(£m)
22.0 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
23.7
23.6
24.0
23.5
OPERATING MARGIN
1,**
 
(%)
148.0 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
164.2
170.2
155.6
163.7
REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE 
(£k)
30 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
Growth of 2% in household products & 
personal care (collectively c. 9% divisional 
revenue) was supported by new business  
wins with multinational customers in air care.
Investment in resources in Europe and Asia  
for the clean room wipes business started  
to deliver progress towards the division’s  
objective of globalising this product line,  
with encouraging new sales growth in  
both geographic regions.
In 2013, we continued our successful  
track record of converting our intellectual 
property and manufacturing know-how into 
commercial success. Similar in nature to our 
other technologies, porous plastic components 
are engineered from a variety of raw materials, 
each with differing properties (such as pore 
size, density, chemical resistance, rigidity and 
hydrophobicity). This technology allows us to 
increase our reach in the fluid-handling space 
and to expand further in existing markets. 
Indeed, during the year, we patented a  
porous plastic filter valve, a dual technology 
application also incorporating fibre, for use in 
suction canisters which delivers an essential 
enhancement to the operating room waste 
removal systems which medical professionals 
depend upon.
Building on our experience in producing 
superior medical grade foam for wound  
care applications, the team at our St. Charles 
facility successfully incorporated several 
customer ingredients to open up new markets 
as well as to provide additional functionality, 
such as assisting skin and exposed tissue to 
heal under optimal conditions. We also 
developed unique oil coalescing filters 
manufactured from bonded fibre for a range 
of industrial and transportation purposes, 
which provide customers with greater 
efficiency and a longer life span than 
traditional filtration media. 
Adjusted operating profit rose 14.1%  
(12.1% at constant exchange) to £23.5m, 
equating to a 50bps decline in the margin. 
Successful productivity improvements and  
cost reduction initiatives were more than  
offset by the short-term dilutive impact  
of infrastructure investment at Lymtech  
Scientific to generate future revenue  
growth opportunities.
+16.6%
+5.2% (50bps)
+14.1%
Above:
Our world class R&D laboratory 
capabilities allow us to push 
our technology into new  
areas, and to develop testing 
methodologies which specifically 
support the evaluation of our 
materials in our customers’ 
applications, giving them  
even greater confidence in  
our solutions
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 31 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES
Management estimates the 
global addressable market  
for our porous technologies 
products at around £1.2bn.  
The underlying growth rates  
and key trends facing the 
division vary depending on  
the end-market served and  
the respective fluid or vapour 
handling challenge being 
addressed.
Printing systems:  
performance improvements
Estimated market growth of 3% 
pa. While the market shows  
a degree of uncertainty given 
trading difficulties reported  
by certain OEMs, customers 
continue to look to enhance  
the performance of their 
products, such as through the 
use of increasingly complex inks.
Healthcare: enhanced  
fluid handling capabilities
Estimated market growth  
of 8-10% pa, driven by the 
migration from slower and  
more expensive laboratory-
based testing to results being 
provided at the point of care.
Advanced wound care: 
changing customer  
/ patient needs
Estimated market growth  
of 6% pa. A globally ageing 
population is resulting in a 
change in the incidence of 
medical conditions requiring 
advanced wound care products, 
such as diabetes.
Household & personal care: 
emerging market growth
Estimated market growth  
of 3-4% pa, with consumers 
increasingly transitioning to 
more sophisticated household 
and personal care products.
Non-woven products:  
growing requirement for 
sensitive environments
Estimated market growth  
of 6-7% pa. Industries such  
as electronics increasingly 
operate in controlled 
environments, while others  
(eg, hospitals) have a 
requirement for clean room 
conditions to combat infection 
and / or contamination risk.
Writing instruments:  
range expansion
Estimated market growth of 2% 
pa, with customers increasingly 
looking for a total solutions 
provider – from ink reservoirs  
to nibs.
Key new product 
opportunities
 > Improved technologies to 
further enhance fluid and 
vapour handling capability
 > Additional technology 
platforms, to take advantage 
of new end-market 
opportunities
 > Further range expansion
 > Investment in faster-growing 
product end-markets, such  
as medical
 > Continued focus on customer 
partnerships
“CUSTOMERS RELY ON US TO CONTINUE TO DEVELOP NOVEL, NEXT GENERATION 
PRODUCTS THAT WILL DRIVE THEIR NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS.”
MARKET TRENDS
WHAT WE MEASURE Improving operational excellence  
and execution
Further to our acquisition of Jae Yong in 2012, 
we upgraded the writing instrument reservoir 
lines in Korea to higher speed equipment  
which will allow more efficient production.  
We also extended our sterile alcohol bottling 
production capability at our Richmond,  
US site: as contamination control is critical  
in medical device, biotechnology and 
pharmaceutical manufacturing areas to 
validate them as sterile, this expansion will 
help underpin future revenue growth 
opportunities for our wipes business.
With the opening of the new purpose-built 
facility in Bangalore, India in 2013, the division 
also established local manufacturing 
capability for the first time in this strategically 
important, faster-growing opportunity 
market, where we will be seeking to build on 
our established writing instruments business to 
exploit growth opportunities in healthcare, 
nibs, consumer care and speciality filtration.
2014 KEY INITIATIVES
 > Increase pace of customised solutions  
for global OEMs in wound care
 > Additional expansion of capabilities  
in writing instruments
 > Further commercialisation of filtration 
capabilities across multiple technologies
 > Continue to build global distribution 
network and expand product portfolio  
in wipes
 > Geographical expansion into Latin America
Further information on
www.essentraporoustechnologies.com
Innovation – percentage of sales  
derived from new products
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the success of new products and 
technology 
How we have done
7 .8% of revenue generated from products launched 
in the last three years
Sustained IP development
Why we measure it
Continued development of intellectual property  
to support future growth and strong development 
project pipeline
How we have done
Currently 28 (2012: 27) patents in force in the US, 
with 18 (2012: 19) applications pending
Customer complaints
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems and  
service delivery
How we have done
85 complaints, being a 46.6% increase versus 2012 
and reflecting a full year impact of the acquisitions 
of Lymtech Scientific and Jae Yong
Man hours per machine hour
Why we measure it
Indicative of shop floor productivity
How we have done
1.77 (2012: 2.28) man hours per machine hour, and 
reflecting a full year of the acquisitions of Lymtech 
Scientific and Jae Yong Image caption:
Erinnum abobus aut mos 
aperum doloreratur 
sitiorerum asse est rectis 
moluptatem ipicaeorit 
volum ium am etus der
1
6
5
4
3
2
1
3
2
REVENUE BY DESTINATION (%)
1. Europe 69.6
2. Americas 21.5
3. Asia including Middle East 8.9
REVENUE BY END-MARKET (%)
1. Healthcare 35.9
2 .  T ob ac c o 23.9
3.  Document & identity solutions 12.9
4. Consumer goods 7.5
5. Transit packaging 3.9
6. Other 15.9
32 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
PACKAGING &  
SECURING SOLUTIONS
THE DIVISION IS A LEADING GLOBAL SUPPLIER  
TO THE CONSUMER AND HEALTHCARE 
PACKAGING MARKETS, AND TO THE POINT OF 
PURCHASE AND PAPER & BOARD INDUSTRIES. 
IT IS ALSO A LEADING PROVIDER OF BRAND 
PROTECTION AND IDENTITY SOLUTIONS.
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO
The Packaging & Securing Solutions division 
comprises the following activities:
Essentra Packaging is a global provider  
of healthcare and consumer packaging 
products. Our “Packaging Resolved” 
positioning emphasises the four core themes  
of Open, Close, Inform and Protect, where our 
cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, labels and brand 
protection security solutions can combine  
to provide all or merely one of these benefits. 
From helping to ensure that consumers do  
not get frustrated in opening packs to 
providing the reassurance that goods are  
fresh and have not been tampered with,  
our packaging components can be an  
integral part of the product and brand  
pack experience. 
Essentra Security is Europe’s leading provider  
of ID card printers, systems and accessories  
to direct and trade customers, providing  
the broadest product offering and most 
competitive value.
Essentra Speciality Tapes is a leading 
manufacturer and distributor of adhesive 
coated products for a wide range of industries 
and applications, in particular the point of 
purchase sector.
Right:
From authenticating 
branded goods to ensuring 
secure access, our 
extensive range of 
packaging and security 
technologies and 
accessories help our 
customers to beat the 
counterfeiters or prove 
personal ID
OPERATIONAL REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 33 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING AND SECURING SOLUTIONS
Right:
With over 65 years of 
experience, our Speciality 
Tapes team strives to set 
the quality standard in  
the industry, in both the 
production and distribution 
of our products
The Security business has been at the forefront 
of ID technology for over 30 years, and has 
access to the widest portfolio of products  
and services, including printers, software and 
consumables from leading manufacturers.  
Our systems produce durable, high quality, 
credit card-style photo ID cards which are 
compatible with the majority of security 
systems, and which can be specified to 
incorporate magstripes, barcodes, contactless 
chips or smart cards. To complement our ID 
card systems, the Security business also offers a 
range of manual and electronic visitor 
management systems, as well as an extensive 
range of ID accessories such as badge holders, 
clips and lanyards.
The Speciality Tapes business has expertise in 
coating multiple adhesive systems in numerous 
technologies. With close to 3,000 adhesive 
products available for same-day shipping, our 
products can meet all high performance needs, 
from foam, magnetic, finger lift and acrylic high 
bond tapes to hook and loop and non-skid 
foam.
HOW WE PERFORMED IN 2013
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 58.2% (58.7% at constant 
exchange) to £181.8m. Excluding the acquisition 
of Contego in April and Dakota  
in November, like-for-like growth was 4.1%.
Underlying revenue in Packaging (ie, excluding 
Contego and Dakota) increased 2%, led by 
promotional solutions in the wrapped food 
category and growth in the tobacco sector, 
particularly in Asia. During the year, we 
launched a number of new products, including 
the Prism high impact holographic tape range 
Collectively, the division serves customers  
in over 100 countries from facilities operating  
in ten countries. They are supported by an 
in-house design studio, R&D and multi-million 
pound print facilities, to deliver the very best  
in quality, service and reliability. 
HOW WE DO IT
Our objective is to use our business 
development philosophy and resource to 
identify innovation opportunities and translate 
these into novel, workable solutions. We seek 
to leverage our well-invested, developing 
international footprint to provide market-
leading quality and service on a global  
basis, and to add value for both customers  
and consumers.
The Packaging business manufactures a range 
of cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, labels, closures 
and seals which offer functional benefits to 
packaged goods through providing easy 
opening and resealability. Our products are 
also the ideal medium to carry sophisticated 
branding and communication messages,  
in the form of printed images, text or data. 
 
Additionally, we look to add value to our 
customers’ packaging through providing  
brand protection solutions, such as tamper 
evidence or authentication technologies, to 
enable them to identify and secure products  
in the fight against counterfeiting. Our 
offering comprises overt, covert and forensic 
technologies.
£181.8 m +58.2%
Revenue
(2012: £114.9m)
£30.2m +38.5%
Operating profit
1,**
(2012: £21.8m)
16.6% (240)bps
Operating margin
1
(2012: 19.0%)
and the innovative AquaSense™ label, a  
joint development project with the Porous 
Technologies division, which helps to control 
humidity within a pack or tin. We also 
launched a new commercial positioning for  
the business of “Packaging Resolved” around 
the four key aspects of effective packaging:  
Open, Close, Inform and Protect. This focus  
is aimed at better understanding consumer 
attitudes and priorities in terms of packaging 
functionality, to allow us to work more 
effectively with brand owners in the 
development of value-adding solutions.
Security declined 2%, with continued sales 
from the Blue Badge contract in the UK and 
the distribution of personal ID products being 
offset by weaker performance in certain 
non-core film and card activities.
The Speciality Tapes business delivered  
a strong result (+12%), driven by the point  
of purchase, industrial and food end-markets. 
The performance was supported by the 
continued development of finger lift tapes 
combined with successful new product 
launches, such as Duraco Red the clarity of 
which keeps graphics sharp and legible and 
which has proved particularly popular with 
point of purchase customers. All global 
locations performed well, with a strong 
contribution from the developing Express site 
format in North America and an encouraging 
start for our new site openings in Greensboro  
and Jacksonville, US and in Poland.
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) 80.9 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
88.8
99.7
114.9
181.8
REVENUE 
(£m)
14.8 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
18.2
20.3
21.8
30.2
OPERATING PROFIT
1,**
 
(£m)
18.2 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
20.5
20.3
19.0
16.6
OPERATING MARGIN
1,**
 
(%)
184.4 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
187.7
190.4
193.2
143.8
REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE 
(£k)
34 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
+58.2% +38.5%
-25.6% (240bps)
Right:
Our speciality tapes work 
hard behind the scenes  
to hold things together,  
in point of purchase displays 
that educate and inspire trial 
of new products, in appliances 
making them water-tight 
and quiet, and securely 
packaging contents as they 
travel around the globe  
– and so much more besides
Following on from the Asian Manufacturing 
Award which we received in 2012, we were 
honoured with further recognition in 2013  
in the Innovative Food / Beverage Packaging 
Design category for our wide-width message 
tape. As well as boosting on-shelf presence 
thanks to the colourful design possibilities,  
the message tape avoids brand owners having 
to redesign their entire pack each time a new 
promotion is run, reducing waste and saving 
origination fees. 
We also received a Sustainable Package 
Technical Award from the 4th China Package 
Technology Innovation and Sustainable 
Development Forum for our Rippatape™ 
product which, while designed primarily for 
easy opening, also increases the compression 
strength of secondary packaging: this can 
potentially allow producers to use thinner 
board, delivering both cost and environmental 
benefits in terms of reduced material 
consumption and lighter weight. 
Finally, we were proud to end the year with  
the prestigious award of Design Team of  
the Year at the UK Packaging Awards for  
our in-house department. As well as creating 
promotional and brand image designs for 
customers around the world, the team is  
also expert in high level security print  
design techniques which are integrated into 
packaging to support brand protection and 
anti-counterfeit activity, allowing us to add 
further value to our customers’ packaging.
Adjusted operating profit increased 38.5%  
(38.6% at constant exchange) to £30.2m, 
equating to a 240bps decline in the margin:  
on a like-for-like basis the margin was 50bps  
ahead. Our continued focus on cost  
reduction initiatives and efficiency 
improvements was more than offset by  
the initial dilutive impact from acquisitions  
and additional infrastructure investment.
Complemented by value-creating M&A
During the year, we significantly extended  
our packaging solutions capabilities in the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare markets  
with the acquisitions of Contego and Dakota. 
Established in 1991, Contego is a leading 
pan-European specialist business, providing  
a range of innovative print, packaging and 
support services from operational sites across 
Europe. With products including folding 
cartons, leaflets, self-adhesive labels  
and printed foils used in blister packs, the 
acquisition of Contego not only enhances  
the range and innovation opportunities offered 
to both of our existing customer bases but also 
provides access to potential new customers 
through leveraging our combined skills. 
We subsequently complemented the 
acquisition of Contego with that of Dakota. 
Dakota is a Dublin-based supplier of printed, 
folding and litho-laminate cartons to the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors,  
which not only reinforces our product range 
and customer base in these attractive growth 
industries but also provides significant 
additional scale in the sizeable Irish market.
The integration of both acquisitions to date is 
in line with expectations, and the consolidation 
of our site footprint will help drive further 
opportunities and efficiencies.
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Innovation – percentage of sales derived from 
recently developed products
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the success of new products and 
technologies
How we have done
21.1% of revenue generated from products launched 
in the last three years (excluding acquisitions)
On time in full
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems and  
service delivery
How we have done
95.8% compares to 97 .1% in 2012 (excluding 
acquisitions)
Customer satisfaction – customer complaints
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems and delivery
How we have done
6.9% decrease in complaints from 2012 (excluding 
acquisitions)
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 35 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING AND SECURING SOLUTIONS
“PACKAGING IS THE NUMBER ONE MEDIUM TO  
COMMUNICATE THE BRAND.”
Improving operational excellence  
and execution
In 2013, we successfully completed a number  
of operational initiatives to help support future 
revenue growth opportunities and to generate 
further efficiency savings. At our Speciality 
Tapes facility in Chicago, US, we significantly 
expanded our hot melt capability through 
investment in coating and related converting 
equipment, which will provide us with greater 
manufacturing flexibility and enhanced 
growth potential for finger lift tape. We also 
added new die stations at our Cardiff, UK 
packaging site, which allow for higher speed 
production of complex labels. As anticipated, 
the Speciality Tapes facility at Bridlington, UK 
secured OHSAS 18001 accreditation, during  
the year.
Following the acquisition of Contego,  
we undertook a strategic review of our 
packaging and securing operations, further  
to which we took the decision to withdraw 
from the manufacture and production of 
certain lower growth / margin, non-core 
security products (including security and 
protection films and ID cards) at our Banbury, 
UK site. As a result, the division will continue to 
provide customers with the widest range of ID 
card printers, systems and accessories, but we 
will solely align our authentication technologies 
capabilities in brand protection and security 
with our core packaging offering. Excluding 
these exited activities, our Security business 
posted growth of 4% in 2013.
2014 KEY INITIATIVES
 > Continue development of functional  
and creative packaging solutions
 > Continue integration of Contego  
and Dakota acquisitions
 > Extend geographical reach in healthcare 
packaging
 > Grow security sales across the packaging 
product offering
 > Further extend die-cut machinery base in 
Speciality Tapes, to capture global industrial 
growth opportunities
Further information on: 
www.essentrapackaging.com
www.essentrasecurity.com
www.essentraspecialtytapes.com
Management estimates the 
value of the global market for 
pressure sensitive tear tapes, 
labels and security technologies 
at c. £3bn, with growth ranging 
from 0-9% depending on the 
end-markets served.
Increasing consumer 
communication
Packaging is increasingly used to 
communicate brand messages, 
and to engage with consumers 
via promotions or competitions.
Functionality and convenience 
of packaging
There is a growing demand for 
packaging which not only offers 
optimum product protection, 
but is also easy for consumers  
to access without frustration.
Brand and identity protection 
and verification
Brand owners have a continued 
need to protect their assets 
from counterfeiters, while public 
and private organisations 
require secure identification  
of individuals.
Legislation
Increasing regulatory 
requirements, such as the 
European Falsified Medicines 
Directive, are driving demand 
for tamper evident packaging, 
while the more standardised 
pack requirements of the EU 
Tobacco Products Directive 
potentially limit the scope  
for innovative solutions.
Sustainability and  
waste reduction
There is a growing need for 
packaging to be resealable  
so as to maintain freshness and 
reduce waste, as well as to have 
a lower environmental impact. 
Provision of total solutions
Customers are increasingly 
seeking a partner which can 
deliver a complete offering – 
from design to end-supply –  
as well as individual products 
capable of providing multiple 
pack benefits. 
Key new product 
opportunities
 > Investment in technology,  
to develop novel, value- 
added packaging and  
brand protection solutions
 > Functional packaging benefits, 
such as opening, closing and 
tamper evidence
 > Eco-friendly packaging 
solutions, such as closing  
and resealing
 > Creative and secure design 
solutions to provide enhanced 
communication and 
authentication opportunities
MARKET TRENDS
WHAT WE MEASURE 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO
The Filter Products division is the only global 
independent supplier of filters. Not only do  
we offer standard filters, but as the leading 
supplier of special filters we offer innovative 
solutions that meet the consumer-driven 
demands of the tobacco industry against  
a backdrop of ongoing legislative changes.
We also increasingly provide adjacent services 
to the tobacco industry. Our Scientific Services 
facility located in the UK was one of the first 
independent externally accredited laboratories 
for the testing of cigarettes, cigarette filters, 
smokeless devices (such as e-cigarettes) and 
low ignition propensity (“LIP”) for cigarette 
papers, and has over 20 years’ experience  
of providing analytical services to state 
monopolies and both independent and 
multinational customers. Additionally, we  
offer a full bespoke range for the design, 
packing and packaging of filters for roll your 
own brands, providing an efficient and 
cost-effective solution to delivering retail-
ready products to the market.
The Filter Products division supplies over  
700 product specifications to more than  
320 customers, including all the multinational 
tobacco companies. We have nine 
manufacturing facilities in nine countries, 
supported by a UK-based research facility  
and three regional development centres.
HOW WE DO IT
Innovation is at the heart of our business,  
and our objective is to develop value-creating 
partnerships with our customers. We seek  
to leverage our long-standing experience, 
expertise and insight to provide brand 
differentiation and identity solutions, as  
well as excellence in both manufacturing  
and service. Our recognised ability to provide 
new value-added products and services is  
key to the division’s future growth, as market 
dynamics in the tobacco industry continue  
to evolve.
Research in filters is carried out at the Filters 
Technology Centre in the UK, supported by 
three regional development centres. Together, 
they work closely with customers to understand 
their specific needs, and strive to deliver 
innovative solutions which will give their  
brands differentiation and relevance, at a  
pace appropriate to local market conditions 
and legislative requirements. Our offering is 
further enhanced by our ability to complement 
our customers’ own strengths and assets in a 
variety of tolling, or outsourced management, 
relationship arrangements, as well as our 
growing adjacent services activities.
We continuously upgrade our technology  
and footprint, to ensure we exceed our 
customers’ expectations and remain at  
the forefront of market trends. Our flexible 
global manufacturing capability allows us  
to respond rapidly to market changes and 
customer demand for surge volumes, while a 
consistent focus on high standards of quality, 
cost control and production efficiency act as 
further sources of competitive advantage.
FILTER PRODUCTS
THE DIVISION IS THE ONLY GLOBAL 
INDEPENDENT PROVIDER OF FILTERS  
AND RELATED SOLUTIONS TO THE 
TOBACCO INDUSTRY.
£269.9m +15.5%
Revenue 
(2012: £233.6m)
£40.1 m +40.2%
Operating profit
1,**
(2012: £28.6m)
14.9% +270bps
Operating margin
1
(2012: 12.2%)
HOW WE PERFORMED IN 2013
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 15.5% (16.5% at constant 
exchange) to £269 .9m. Underlying volumes 
were ahead of the prior year, with particularly 
strong growth in Asia, and in both special and 
flavoured filters. In FY 2013, Asia accounted for 
61% of volumes (2012: 56%).
Building on our track record of successful 
innovation, a number of new products and 
development initiatives were launched during 
the year. These included Groove Core – the 
latest addition to our Performance range – 
which combines the performance benefits  
of activated carbon with high impact brand 
differentiation, as well as the BiTech™ filter 
whose unique construction enables 
manufacturers to combine the high filtration 
efficiency and cost effectiveness of paper with 
the familiar taste of cellulose acetate. We also 
continued to work closely with our customers 
to develop bespoke solutions to their specific 
needs, with such joint activity up 11% during 
the year. Ongoing intellectual property 
development supports our future innovation 
capabilities, and a further 21 patent and 
trademark applications were filed in 2013.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW REVENUE BY DESTINATION (%)
1. Asia including Middle East 47.6
2. Europe 34.6
3. Americas 17.8
SALES VOLUME BY TYPE (%)
1. Monoacetate 45.8
2. Other special 29.6
3. Carbon 18.3
4. Flavour 6.3
1
3
2
1
2
3
4
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 37 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS
Below:
Our commitment  
to product excellence, 
combined with our 
superior filter knowledge, 
help to ensure we meet  
– if not beat – the 
commercial imperatives  
of our customers 22.1 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
23.7
24.5
28.6
40.1
OPERATING PROFIT
1,**
 
(£m)
202.9 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
200.7
208.0
233.6
269.9
REVENUE 
(£m)
10.9 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
11.8
11.8
12.2
14.9
OPERATING MARGIN
1,**
 
(%)
113.6 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
126.1
136.2
143.1
163.7
REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE 
(£k)
Below:
With over 700 
specifications, our  
product ranges reflect  
the consumer trends in  
the tobacco industry  
and provide our customers 
with numerous options  
to meet their respective 
brand objectives
38 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
Given our objective of continuing to 
strengthen our customer relationships through 
supporting their innovation and improving 
their speed to market, we were particularly 
proud to be awarded a long-term contract 
with a major multinational customer. This  
new business win – being the largest individual 
contract in the Company’s history – is for  
an innovative combined filter in European 
markets: the incremental impact on our FY 
2013 results was not material, as initial 
shipments only commenced at the end of Q3.
Adjusted operating profit rose 40.2% (41.1%  
at constant exchange) to £40.1m, equating  
to a 270bps improvement in the margin. 
Higher raw material and other input costs 
were successfully offset by further productivity 
improvements, quality enhancement 
initiatives and continued cost control.
Undertaking value-creating M&A
In February 2013, we announced the formation 
of a joint venture with BBM Bommidala  
Group (“BBM”) in the UAE to manufacture 
filter products. BBM is one of India’s leading 
producers of tobacco products and by-
products – as well as a leading cigarette 
exporter from India – and this agreement 
strengthens our presence in the growing  
Middle Eastern market, where the more 
specialised Super Slim, charcoal and flavoured 
filters are showing a positive growth trend.  
A new 29 ,000 sq. ft. facility was constructed 
and was operational in Q3 as anticipated.
Improving operational excellence  
and execution
Consistent with our objective of maintaining  
a flexible and competitive geographic footprint 
to ensure we continue to deliver value to our 
customers, during the year we took the  
decision to close our facility in Jordan.
Further to the investment in expanding  
our Scientific Services laboratory in Jarrow,  
UK in 2012, additional services were introduced 
during the year with the site now fully  
accredited to provide the testing methods  
for all 93 compounds proposed by the US  
Food and Drug Administration, as well as 
cigarette ignition propensity. There was a 
significant increase in the level of e-cigarette 
testing undertaken, and the laboratory was  
also awarded a three-year government  
contract for testing all brands in the UK.
+15.5%
+14.4% 270bps
+40.2%
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
**
 2012 restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011)
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Conversion costs as percentage of revenue
Why we measure it
Continued focus delivers financial performance 
How we have done
25.8%, a 110bps improvement from 26.9% in 2012
On time in full
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet delivery demands
How we have done
96.9% compares to 97 .4% in 2012
Quality complaints per billion rods
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient use of material
How we have done
2.7 complaints per billion rods, a decrease from  
3.0 in 2012
Waste
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient use of material
How we have done
2.8%, a reduction from 3.2% in 2012
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 39 OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS
2014 KEY INITIATIVES
 > Continue to increase innovation in special 
filters to capture growing demand, 
particularly in China
 > Open additional facility in India, building on 
long-term successful joint venture with ITC
 > Successfully commercialise new Smokeless 
Nicotine Delivery products
 > Maintain focus on delivering further quality 
and productivity improvements
 > Extend geographic reach in the Middle East 
/ North Africa via Dubai joint venture
 > Position other filter raw materials as  
a credible alternative to acetate tow
Further information on
www.essentrafilters.com
The global tobacco market  
is valued at c. US$756bn, with 
broadly flat cigarette retail 
volume growth.
Regulation
The tobacco industry is heavily 
regulated around the world on 
health grounds, with significant 
restrictions on the way in which 
products can be marketed  
to consumers. Legislation 
continues to evolve, both in 
respect of traditional cigarettes 
and innovations such as 
e-cigarettes, as well as 
surrounding the testing and 
packaging requirements  
for these products.
Illicit trade
Counterfeiting of tobacco 
products is a significant and 
increasing challenge for the 
industry, undermining brand 
value, presenting a risk to 
consumers from low quality 
goods and reducing tax 
revenues. The illicit trade 
accounts for approximately 10% 
of duty-paid cigarette volumes 
and is estimated to be growing 
at c. 4% pa – well ahead of the 
overall industry.
 
“Beyond tobacco” products
The market for products beyond 
traditional cigarettes continues 
to evolve rapidly. There is 
increased interest in other 
nicotine delivery mechanisms 
which offer heat but not burn,  
in particular in e-cigarettes 
which are reportedly delivering 
exponential growth (albeit from 
a low base) and which are 
forecast to continue doing so.
East versus West
Accounting for over 60% of  
total world cigarette volume,  
the growth markets of Asia 
dominate the global tobacco 
industry and are forecast to 
continue to increase.
Consumer engagement
As per capita income rises – 
particularly in eastern markets 
– so lifestyles change and new 
segments are created, with 
different consumer expectations 
and aspirations from the 
products which they purchase. 
As such, there is an increasing 
demand for new products to 
reflect these changes.
Consumer need
Consumers are increasingly 
concerned with environmental 
matters, such as sustainability 
and pollution, and the impact of 
products which they purchase. 
Such needs are often unspoken 
but create challenges for the 
industry to supply products 
which address such 
considerations.
Cost and price
As the price of cigarettes has 
continued to increase, growth 
opportunities have been created 
for other industry segments 
including roll your own and 
Other Tobacco Products,  
such as chewing tobacco. 
Key new product 
opportunities
 > Lifestyle solutions (eg, Slims / 
Super Slims, low / ultra low  
tar, “eco” ranges)
 > Brand-specific requirements, 
such as recessed filters
 > Enhanced user experience, 
such as capsules, flavoured 
thread and activated carbon
 > Full bespoke service for roll  
your own brands
 > Provision of scientific services
“THERE IS AN INCREASING ROLE FOR FILTER INNOVATION IN 
ADDRESSING WIDER TRENDS IN THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY.”
MARKET TRENDS
WHAT WE MEASURE In addition, we continued to improve our 
capability and capacity with a further 
investment in 21 new machines, including 
high-speed, flexible triple filter combiners. 
Some 80% of our products are now 
manufactured using recently-installed 
equipment, which has contributed to 
significant improvements in our productivity 
while simultaneously reducing conversion 
costs. Indeed, this investment allows us to 
meet not only our customers’ current needs  
in terms of quality and functional tolerances, 
but also their future requirements as the  
global tobacco industry continues to evolve.
Employee development is a key commitment 
of the division. Over and above our well 
established Management Development and 
Graduate Development Programmes, the 
framework is aimed at enhancing training, 
driving career progression and ensuring robust 
succession planning. Our Filters Learning 
Centre is accredited to International 
Association of Continuing Education and 
Training standards, and we recruited an 
additional three dedicated associates in  
Asia during the year to reinforce our training 
efforts in the region even further. RISK INDICATORS
NO CHANGE IN 2013
REDUCED RISK IN 2013
INCREASED RISK IN 2013
40 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
VISION 2015
The management of risk underpins the 
Company’s Vision 2015 strategy, focusing  
on the challenges which arise in the 
international environment in which Essentra 
conducts business and reflecting the 
Company’s appetite for risk in the delivery  
of its business objectives. As such, risks are 
continuously monitored, associated action 
plans are reviewed, appropriate contingencies 
are provisioned and information is reported 
through established management control 
procedures.
The Company seeks continuously to improve 
its risk management processes and continues 
to develop new systems which serve to 
enhance the Company’s response to the risks 
inherent in its international business activities.
Essentra recognises that the ability to monitor, 
assess and respond to business risks may 
provide a competitive advantage. Reporting 
within the Group is structured so that key 
issues are escalated through the management 
team and ultimately to the Board if appropriate. 
Each area of the business is required to review 
its principal areas of risk and uncertainty 
formally and regularly. This is an ongoing 
process to ensure that there are clear and 
consistent procedures for monitoring,  
updating and implementing appropriate 
controls to manage identified risks. 
Essentra’s short- and long-term performance 
can be impacted by many risks and 
uncertainties, not all of which are within  
the Company’s control.
The Company is subject to the general  
risks and uncertainties which impact other 
international organisations, including  
political instability in the countries in which  
the Company operates and sources raw 
materials, the impact of natural disasters  
and changes in general economic  
conditions, including currency and interest  
rate fluctuations, tax regimes and raw  
material costs.
Detailed on the next page are the principal 
risks and uncertainties which the Board 
believes are specific to Essentra, having regard 
to its strategic objectives, together with the 
Company risk management response thereto. 
The details provided are not exhaustive and do 
not purport to be a complete explanation of all 
potentially relevant issues. There may be other 
risks and uncertainties which are unknown to 
the Board or which may not be deemed by  
the Board to be material at present but which 
could prove to be material in the future. 
EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF RISK AND 
OPPORTUNITY IS ESSENTIAL TO THE PROTECTION  
OF ESSENTRA’S REPUTATION AND THE ACHIEVEMENT 
OF SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 41 MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS
Risk
A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a 
portion of any of Essentra’s manufacturing  
or distribution facilities due to accident, 
labour issues, fire, terrorist attack, natural 
disaster, information technology failure, 
cyber security attack or otherwise which 
whether short- or long-term could adversely 
affect the Company’s ability to meet the 
demands of its customers. Some of the 
assets maintained by the Company, such  
as tooling and IT systems, are critical to  
the manufacture and delivery of particular 
products.
Impact
A material disruption to operational facilities  
or the loss of critical assets may negatively 
affect the Company’s:
 > Production capability and asset base
 > Supply chain management
 > Customer relationships
 > Reputation
 > Revenue
 > Profit
 > Financial condition
Mitigation
Essentra seeks to manage the risk of potential 
disruption of the supply of its customers by:
 > Operating within a flexible global 
infrastructure 
 > Installing fire and other risk prevention 
systems 
 > Implementing disaster recovery  
and business continuity plans
 > Assessing operational risks
 > Maintaining a comprehensive  
insurance programme
 > Alignment of Group information 
technology resources
DISRUPTION TO INFRASTRUCTURE
EMERGING TECHNOLOGY AND COMPETITION PRESSURES
FAILURE TO DRIVE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Risk
Essentra faces pressures from direct 
competitors as well as competition from 
alternative technologies. Some of the 
Company’s competitors may derive 
competitive advantage from greater 
financial resources, economies of scale, 
additional purchasing power or a lower  
cost base, and Essentra may face  
aggressive pricing practices. 
Impact 
Demand for competitors’ products and the 
development of competing technologies may 
result in: 
 > Loss of market positions 
 > Erosion of margins 
 > Intellectual property challenges
 > Decline in revenue
 > Decline in profitability
 > Deterioration in financial condition
Mitigation
Essentra seeks to mitigate the risk  
of competitive pressure by:
 > Sustained investment in research and 
development to develop the quality and 
breadth of its product and service offering
 > Exploiting innovation and manufacturing 
capabilities in new technologies, products 
and services
 > Developing long-term relationships with 
customers at a senior level
 > Protecting its intellectual property rights
 > Expanding its international distribution, 
sales and marketing expertise
 > Investing in both organic and acquisition 
growth opportunities
Risk
Essentra’s development and growth has 
benefited from the success of start-up 
operations and the continued growth of 
already established businesses. The rate  
of success of any development may in part 
be dependent on the Group’s innovative 
pipeline; employees who have the ability  
to successfully extend the product range,  
or identify and develop products. Additionally, 
continued development will be dependent  
on the successful implementation of the new 
organisation structure. There can be no 
assurance that the Company will develop, 
complete and integrate current and new 
suitable products and expand further 
through start-up operations.
Impact
If Essentra fails to meet the challenges of 
business development, the Company may 
experience:
 > Lower growth rates
 > Delay in the achievement of strategic 
objectives
 > Reduced profitability 
Mitigation
Essentra addresses the challenges of 
international business development with:
 > Experienced and skilled management 
 > Detailed due diligence and planning
 > Project risk reviews
 > External expert advice
 > Regional structure development 
RISK INDICATOR 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
Risk
A key component to Essentra’s future success 
is the ability to develop new and innovative 
products and services. In addition to seeking 
internationally applied patent and trademark 
rights, the Company relies on unpatented 
proprietary know-how and trade secrets. In 
the event that Essentra is unable to respond 
to competitive technological advances or to 
protect its intellectual property portfolio, the 
future performance of the Company may be 
adversely affected.
Risk
Essentra’s development and growth has 
benefited from value-adding acquisitions.  
The rate of any future acquisition integration 
may in part be dependent on the success  
of identifying the correct acquisitions and 
having sufficient resources available for 
integration. There can be no assurance that 
the Company will be successful in completing 
and integrating suitable acquisitions.
Impact
Failure to develop and protect intellectual 
property rights may expose the Company to:
 > Reduced revenue
 > Profit decline
 > Litigation
 > Reputational damage
Impact
If Essentra fails to meet the challenges of 
business development arising from acquisitions 
the Company may experience:
 > Lower growth rates
 > Delay in the achievement of  
strategic objectives
 > Increased costs 
 > Reduced profitability 
Mitigation
To counteract the Company’s exposure 
 to the erosion of its intellectual property 
portfolio, Essentra:
 > Invests in research and development
 > Secures formal registrations of patent  
and trademark rights
 > Adopts appropriate confidentiality and 
licensing practices
 > Monitors potential infringements and  
takes appropriate enforcement actions
Mitigation
Essentra addresses the challenges of mergers 
and acquisitions with:
 > Experienced and skilled management 
 > Detailed due diligence and planning
 > Project risk reviews
 > External expert advice 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS 
CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION
KEY RAW MATERIAL SUPPLY
Risk
In some of Essentra’s businesses the 
customer base is relatively concentrated.  
In addition, trends in certain markets, 
particularly in the oil and gas industry,  
may reduce the demands for the Company’s 
products. Should Essentra’s customers decide 
to satisfy their requirements internally or 
from other suppliers and if Essentra were 
unable to secure new business this could 
result in a significant loss of business.
Impact
The loss of certain of Essentra’s key  
customers may expose the Company to:
 > Reduced revenue
 > Restructuring costs
 > Profit decline
 > Deterioration in financial condition
 > Reputational damage
Mitigation
To counteract the Company’s exposure to  
a concentration of key customers, Essentra:
 > Invests in innovative, high quality,  
value-added products and services
 > Develops long-term relationships and 
loyalty with customers at all levels through 
key account management techniques
 > Seeks new markets and growth 
opportunities to expand the customer base
Risk
Some of Essentra’s businesses are dependent 
on the availability of specialist raw materials 
or components which are incorporated into 
the Company’s products. Key raw materials 
may be subject to price fluctuations from 
supply shortages. If rapid increases occur  
in the price of such raw materials prices, 
including energy costs, the Company’s 
revenue and profitability may be materially 
and adversely affected.
Impact
If Essentra is exposed to raw material price 
increases or supply shortages, the Company 
may suffer:
 > Disruption to supply
 > Increased costs
 > Profit decline
 > Reduced revenue
Mitigation
To counteract the Company’s exposure to 
increases in raw material costs or supply 
shortages, Essentra seeks to:
 > Adopt appropriate procurement practices
 > Secure longer-term supply agreements
 > Implement cost recovery programmes
 > Investigate the availability of alternative 
supply options
 > Use consignment stock
RISK INDICATOR
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 43 MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY
TALENT MANAGEMENT
COMPLIANCE RISK – LAWS AND REGULATIONS
Risk
A substantial part of Essentra’s business 
relates to the supply of filter products and 
packaging solutions to manufacturers in the 
tobacco industry. Future performance may 
be affected by trends in the tobacco industry, 
such as changes in the consumption of filter 
products, self-manufacture and increasingly 
restrictive regulations. Tobacco-related 
litigation could also adversely affect Essentra, 
although there is no history of the Company 
being involved in such claims. 
Impact
Essentra’s relationship with the  
tobacco industry may lead to:
 > Reduced revenue 
 > Restructuring costs
 > Profit decline
 > Reputational damage
 > Deterioration in financial condition 
Mitigation
In seeking to minimise the potential  
impact of the exposure to the tobacco 
industry, Essentra:
 > Invests in the research and development  
of innovative and new value-added 
products and services
 > Targets growth opportunities outside  
the manufacture of filter products
 > Focuses on low cost filter production
 > Takes internal and external legal advice  
to manage litigation risk
 > Seeks to add value with a range of low cost 
and innovative packaging solutions
Risk
Essentra’s international operations are 
dependent on existing key executives and 
certain other employees in order to sustain, 
develop and grow its businesses and there 
can be no assurances that these employees 
will remain with the Company. The success  
of the Company will reflect its ability to 
retain, attract and motivate highly qualified 
executives and other personnel equipped to 
deliver on Essentra’s strategic objectives. 
Impact
If Essentra fails to retain, attract or motivate 
the required calibre of employees, its 
operational performance and financial 
condition may be materially impacted by  
a lack of:
 > Experience
 > Expertise 
 > Commercial relationships
 > Market insight
 > Product innovation
Mitigation
In order to manage the risk of personnel 
change, Essentra: 
 > Regularly reviews personal development 
and succession planning
 > Sets appropriate key performance 
indicators
 > Implements management development 
schemes and other training programmes
 > Sets effective remuneration programmes
 > Provides long-term share-based  
incentive plans
 > Uses a talent management system
 > Continues to recruit graduates on its 
development programme
RISK INDICATOR
Risk
Risk related to regulatory and legislative 
changes involves the possible inability of the 
Company to comply with current, changing 
or new legislation / regulation. Many of 
Essentra’s current business activities are 
subject to increasing regulation and 
enforcement activity by relevant authorities. 
As the Company moves into new markets 
and territories in pursuit of its strategic 
priorities, Essentra is exposed to new and 
additional compliance risk.
Impact
Failure by the Company or its employees  
or others acting on its behalf to abide by  
the laws and regulations could result in:
 > Administrative, civil or criminal liability
 > Significant fines and penalties
 > Suspense or debarment of the Company 
from trading
 > Reputational damage
 > Loss of commercial relationships
Mitigation
In order to manage compliance risk Essentra:
 > Establishes a clear compliance culture  
from the top down
 > Conducts risk assessments and ongoing 
compliance reviews
 > Implement relevant policies and procedures
 > Provides behavioural guidance and training 
to all employees
 > Monitors compliance through verification 
procedures
 > Engages local advisers as appropriate  44 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENCOMPASSES A BROAD 
RANGE OF PHILOSOPHIES, ACTIVITIES AND STANDARDS. 
ESSENTRA CONSIDERS THE ISSUES THAT ARE MATERIAL TO ITS 
BUSINESS AND SEEKS TO RESPOND TO THEM IN A MANNER 
APPROPRIATE TO THE INTERESTS OF ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
 > Promote Essentra Values
 > Establish clear policies and guidance
 > Secure employee awareness and 
engagement
 > Continue to promote Right to  
Speak policy
 > Respond to new risks and 
requirements
 > Provide further training
 > Drive employee responsibility
 > Seek increased assurance
 > Investigate complaints
 > Refreshed Values as part of  
the rebranding to Essentra
 > Continued communication of core 
policies through e-Learning and 
reviews in Essentra Group System
 > Implemented new compliance 
systems
 > Trained employees in Code of 
Business Ethics
Reduce the impact  
of carbon emissions 
and secure 
continuous 
improvement in 
environmental 
performance
 > Set carbon emission targets at  
each operational location
 > Reduce carbon emissions,  
prevent pollution and improve 
manufacturing efficiency
 > Implement initiatives to reduce 
waste and increase recycling
 > Explore the use of energy-saving 
technology in manufacturing
 > Extend the span and quality  
of data collection
 > Develop new techniques with 
suppliers and customers for 
environmentally friendly products
 > Gaining ISO14001 accreditation
 > Gaining ISO 50001 accreditation
 > Continue with global carbon 
reduction initiatives
 > Offset emissions when possible
 > Continue environmental 
improvement to ensure retention  
of accreditations
 > Secure accreditation for newly 
acquired sites within two year period
 > Pursue accreditation to ISO 50001 for 
all manufacturing facilities by 2015
 > Continue to prioritise “War on  
Waste” initiative
 > Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation  
at principal manufacturing sites
 > Establish Group standards for 
improvements and results
 > Encourage employee initiatives  
to reinforce Company training
Secure continuous 
improvement in  
health and safety
 > Achieved OHSAS 18001 at  
Speciality Tapes, Bridlington
 > Established the Essentra 8 Safety 
Expectations, to help reinforce 
personal responsibilities with regard 
to safe behaviours in the workplace
 > Improved the reporting of hazards 
and near miss incidents
 > Identify other training needs
 > Demonstrate year-on-year 
improvement in the lost work  
day rate
 > Regionalise the HSE function
 > Implement three-year HSE 
improvement plan
Ensure the highest 
standards of 
business integrity 
and conduct
PRIORITIES / GOALS HOW DO WE MANAGE IT? HOW DID WE DO? HOW WILL WE DO IT?
 > Established year-on-year 
environmental improvement 
objectives
 > Improved utilisation of raw 
materials and energy at principal 
operating locations (excluding 
acquired sites)
 > Invested in high-speed combining 
machines at the Jarrow, UK facility, 
to improve energy and production 
efficiency
 > Reduced environmental impact 
through site consolidation
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 21.9 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
22.7
22.1
22.9
26.7
ACCIDENT TREND AVERAGE INCIDENTS
3.2 2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2.6
2.2
2.3
4.3
LOST TIME ACCIDENT TREND INCIDENTS
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 45 ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE
Essentra recognises the significance  
and importance of being a responsible  
corporate citizen in the workplace, 
marketplace, environment and community. 
The Company’s international operations  
fulfil their responsibility to record, monitor  
and make publicly available the potential 
impact of its activities. In pursuing its 
corporate strategy, Essentra’s aim is to adopt 
business practices that are economically, 
socially and environmentally sustainable,  
and to promote these to its stakeholders in 
order to strengthen relationships, share 
knowledge and encourage best practice. 
The Company’s risk management processes 
include consideration of the potential impact 
of corporate responsibility issues on Essentra’s 
performance. The Company’s investment 
decisions take into account appropriate 
evaluations of the potential consequences  
for its employees, customers and suppliers  
and the environment. 
The Essentra Values are fundamental to the 
Company’s adoption of the highest standards 
of business ethics and integrity that underpin 
its relationships with both internal and external 
stakeholders. Essentra’s culture is one of 
openness, integrity and accountability 
Employees are encouraged to act fairly in their 
dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, 
suppliers and business partners.
The Essentra Values can be found on the 
Company’s website www.essentra.com and  
on page 53.
WORKPLACE
Health and safety
Essentra’s overriding commitment in the 
workplace continues to be the health, safety 
and welfare of its employees and all those  
who visit the Company’s operations, as well  
as those who carry out work on behalf of the 
Group. The Board provides health and safety 
leadership and the Chief Executive has primary 
responsibility for setting the principal health 
and safety objectives within which the detailed 
policies operate, and for reviewing progress 
against those objectives.
The Group-wide intranet-based management 
reporting system facilitates an extensive  
live programme of active monitoring, that 
measures in detail how successful the 
Company is in managing the safety of  
its workplaces at individual site level.
The Company manages occupational health 
by identifying key risk activities, undertaking 
health assessments and, where appropriate, 
implementing health surveillance programmes. 
The Company has achieved the Occupational 
Health & Safety Management Systems  
OHSAS 18001 standard for all its principal 
manufacturing facilities, with the Speciality 
Tapes site at Bridlington, UK achieving the 
standard during the year as anticipated. 
Recently acquired sites are given a period  
of two years to reach the required standard,  
in accordance with Essentra policy. Acquisitions 
and growth contributed to an increase in the 
accident trend during the year.
The Company has designed procedures and 
developed a culture which aims for continuous 
improvement, with the sharing of best practice 
in all areas of health and safety. In 2013, the 
Company reorganised its Health, Safety & 
Environment (“HSE”) function along regional 
lines from its previous divisional bias.  
The adoption of a structure with a more 
geographical focus is expected to deliver 
further improvement in the Company’s health 
and safety performance, and will support and 
streamline Essentra’s ongoing HSE compliance 
and governance strategies. In particular, it will 
facilitate the development of greater regional 
regulatory expertise, the rapid implementation 
of standards and a higher degree of data 
standardisation across the Group. Dedicated 
Regional HSE Managers for each of Europe,  
the Americas and Asia have been appointed, 
as well as an HSE Systems Manager responsible 
for data collection, analysis and reporting: 
these positions all report to the Group HSE 
Manager, who in turn reports to the Group 
Operations Director.
To support Essentra’s objective of continuous 
improvement, a three-year HSE operational 
improvement plan was implemented during 
2013. The Company has identified non-
standard work as a risk factor that may result 
in injury or near miss incidents, and the 
improvement plan seeks to further enhance 
the way in which health and safety change  
is identified, reported and communicated.  
This is expected to improve the Company’s 
ability to learn from potentially hazardous 
conditions and prevent their reoccurrence  
or escalation into more serious incidents. 
Specifically , eight formal Group-wide expectations 
have been adopted, to reinforce personal 
responsibilities with regard to safe behaviours 
in the workplace and to support the successful 
delivery of the improvement plan.
Essentra’s businesses undertake extensive 
training programmes which are particularly 
focused on the key, or most frequent, risks in 
their operations. Training in risk assessment 
and root-cause analysis are key features in the 
Company’s health and safety management.
Details of Essentra’s health and safety 
performance for 2013 and subsequent  
progress throughout 2014 can be viewed  
on the Company’s website www.essentra.com.
Employees
Essentra’s employees are a vital resource in  
the pursuit of operational excellence and the 
provision of quality products and service to its 
customers. The skills and expertise of Essentra’s 
employees drive the innovation which enables 
the Company to provide added value to its 
customers, enhance supply chain logistics  
with its suppliers and reduce the environmental 
impact of its operations. 
The Company regularly reviews its 
organisational structure to ensure that  
the business has the necessary personnel  
to deliver its strategic priorities. 
Essentra understands the importance of 
having the right people with the right skills  
now and in the future to deliver the exceptional 
service and expertise which is the bedrock  
of the Company’s long-term relationships 
with its customers. To deliver that service 
and expertise, Essentra is continually improving  
its comprehensive talent pool, from graduates  
to senior management. Essentra runs a very 
successful graduate training programme 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILTY 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
which, historically, recruited from Europe and 
North America, but which continues to expand 
its international reach, with graduates from 
Hungary, India and Thailand being among 
those recruited in 2013.
Key strategic aspects of recruitment, training 
and development are overseen or co-ordinated 
at a Group level to ensure consistency of 
approach, to identify strategic threats and 
opportunities and to open up a wider range  
of opportunities for employees.
Essentra encourages its employees to develop 
and manage their own careers. It facilitates 
this by providing relevant job training and, 
where appropriate, aims to fill vacancies with 
existing staff where employees are suitably 
qualified and experienced.
Essentra encourages the involvement of 
employees in the Company’s performance 
through employees’ share schemes.
Essentra is committed to improving  
employee engagement and learning  
more about the needs of its workforce.  
In addition to the impact of the training  
and development programmes, employee 
engagement is enhanced by the 
communication practices which  
have been adopted across the businesses.
Essentra values highly the commitment of its 
employees and recognises the importance of 
communication to good working relationships 
and practices. The Company seeks to ensure 
that employees are informed on matters 
relating to their employment and on financial 
and economic factors affecting the businesses. 
The Company actively seeks feedback and 
ideas from employees to improve its 
operations, and forums appropriate to 
Essentra’s local businesses have been 
established to allow employees to voice their 
views as to how the Company should fulfil  
the demands of all its local and international 
stakeholders. The Company’s European 
Information and Consultation Forum  
facilitates the discussion of issues across all  
of its operations in the European Union.
The Company recognises the importance  
of, and the benefits to be derived from, 
diversity across its international operations  
and is committed to offering equal 
opportunities to all people without 
discrimination of any form. Essentra 
remunerates fairly with respect to skills, 
performance and local market conditions. 
The gender of Essentra’s employees as at  
31 December 2013 was:
Male Female
Non-Executive Directors 4 1
Executive Directors 2 0
Senior Managers 33 4
All employees 4,026 1,706
The Company gives full and fair consideration 
to employment applications by disabled 
people. In the event of employees becoming 
disabled, every effort is made to ensure that 
the training, career development and 
promotion opportunities available to disabled 
persons are as far as possible identical to those 
of other non-disabled employees.
Throughout its global activities Essentra 
supports human rights as set down by the 
United Nations Declaration and its applicable 
International Labour Organisation conventions. 
Operations based in India, Indonesia, Jordan  
and Thailand are also accredited to SA 8000 
which details fundamental principles of  
human rights. 
The Group’s activities are carried out in developed 
countries that have strong legislation governing 
human rights. The Group complies fully with 
appropriate legislation in the countries in which it 
operates. Essentra’s commitment to Human 
Rights is repeated in its Values and Code of 
Business Conduct policy. 
MARKETPLACE
Essentra’s reputation with its customers and 
suppliers and in the communities where it 
operates, is based not only on the quality of  
its performance, but also on the integrity of  
its management of the workplace and the 
environment, and its ethical and responsible 
conduct in the marketplace. The development 
and continuation of long-term business 
relationships reflects the trust placed in the 
Company, and such commitments are an 
important component in the ongoing success 
of the Company.
Essentra’s Code of Business Ethics policy  
is applicable to all its businesses around  
the world. The policy details the standards 
expected by Essentra in the conduct of its 
business and its relationships with third 
parties, including free and fair competition, 
plus the prohibition of bribery and political 
donations, and provides general guidance on 
honest and fair dealings with suppliers, 
customers and local and national authorities. 
Essentra is committed to working with its 
suppliers to ensure the welfare of workers  
and employment conditions within its  
supply chain meet or exceed internationally 
recognised standards. 
ENVIRONMENT
Essentra applies a structured approach to 
maintaining its environmental impact by:
 > Implementing and maintaining environmental 
and energy management systems certified to 
ISO 14001 on a global basis
 > Measuring and monitoring consumption 
and emissions, and setting targets to 
improve performance 
 > Conducting environmental impact 
assessments and developing site 
management plans
 > Providing training to employees, and 
engaging with customers and suppliers  
to raise environmental awareness
 > Providing facilities to segregate and reuse  
or recycle waste
Essentra is listed in the FTSE4Good index  
which is designed to measure the performance 
of companies striving to meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility  
standards, and to facilitate investment  
in those companies where corporate 
responsibility issues are an influencing factor  
in an investor’s decision-making process.
In the UK, Essentra’s sites comply with the 
Carbon Reduction Commitment (“CRC”) 
legislation. The Company has recently 
registered for Phase II and has complied  
with all relevant data submissions. Essentra 
continues to apply the principles of the CRC  
to its global operations and is well placed  
to manage further legislative changes in  
its operating regions.
 
Given the diversity of Essentra’s international 
operations, local management drives 
environmental performance in accordance 
with Group policy, copies of which can be 
found on the Company’s website  
www.essentra.com. Specific site-level 
objectives are established to ensure 
compliance with local legislative and  
external management systems (ISO 14001).
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILTY CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILTY
COMMUNITY
Essentra’s commitment to being a responsible 
corporate citizen extends to support for 
appropriate non-political and non-sectarian 
projects across a range of organisations and 
charities. Regardless of regional or national 
boundaries, the Company aims to support the 
creation of prosperous, educated, sustainable 
and healthy communities in the countries and 
cultures in which it operates. In its attempts  
to bring benefits back to those communities 
whose support provides a basis for Essentra’s 
success, the Company has focused on 
education and enterprise, health and welfare 
and the environment, with support driven  
at a local, rather than a corporate level.  
The approach is to support and enhance 
employee efforts in their communities through 
the application of the Company’s resources.  
In pursuit of its aims within the community, 
Essentra has developed targeted programmes 
for local communities, often involving 
commercial sponsorship and significant 
employee engagement through direct 
involvement or secondment.
ETHICS
Essentra’s culture is one of openness, integrity 
and accountability. Employees are required  
to act fairly in their dealings with fellow 
colleagues, suppliers, customers and business 
partners. All employees undertake training on 
the Company’s Code of Business Ethics policy 
which is updated annually. In addition, all 
employees are required to review and confirm 
their acceptance of critical Group policies,  
with the majority of employees being required 
to review and accept all of the Group policies. 
Essentra operates a confidential whistleblowing 
policy called “Right to Speak” , with an external 
call centre which enables all Group employees 
to raise any concerns.
Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach  
to bribery and corruption which extends to  
all business dealings and transactions in  
which the Company is involved. This includes 
prohibiting political donations, offering or 
receiving inappropriate gifts and making 
facilitation payments.
Essentra uses a variety of indicators to monitor 
environmental performance, but the following 
core impacts are identified for the Group as  
a whole:
 > Greenhouse gas emissions from energy use, 
including electricity, natural gas, heating 
fuel, transport and travel
 > Use of resources, including water
 > Generation and disposal of waste
Essentra is continuously seeking ways to 
improve its utilisation of natural resources.  
A process of continuous improvement is 
applied not only to the impact of its usage,  
but also to the measurement and capture  
of key environmental data. The Group has 
additionally established research and 
development facilities in the UK, Asia and  
the US to investigate the use of renewable 
resources and recyclable / biodegradable 
versions of products.
The following assumptions, methodology, 
definitions and data validation processes  
have been used to report the Group’s key 
environmental performance indicators in  
2013. The reported data complies with the 
Companies Act, for the Mandatory Reporting 
of Greenhouse Gases.
 > Boundary scope: Data from all locations 
over which the Company has operational 
control is collected and measured
 > Primary data sources: These include billing, 
invoices and other systems provided by  
the supplier of the energy to communicate 
energy consumption
 > Secondary data sources: These include the 
Company’s internal systems used to record 
and report the above consumption data
 > Internal data validation: The process  
used to review and compare primary data 
with secondary data. All invoices and data 
loggers for locations consuming more than 
1 million Kwh per year are cross-checked 
with the data held within the Company’s 
own internal data capture systems
 > Conversion factors: The 2013 Government 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting, published by the UK Department 
for Environment Food & Rural Affairs 
(“DEFRA”), are used when converting  
gross emissions. The applicable country 
conversion factors published in this 
guidance have been applied to operations 
outside of the UK 
 
 > Intensity metric: Total carbon emissions  
per £m of revenue are used to calculate  
the Company’s intensity metric.
Tonnes of CO
2 
e (gross)  
for the year ended  
31 Dec 2013
Scope 1 11,595
Scope 2 63,361
Total gross emissions 74,956
Total carbon emissions  
per £m revenue
93.92
 
Acquisitions and growth have contributed  
to Essentra’s increased use of energy. The 
application of energy improvement initiatives  
is expected to continue to improve the Company’s 
overall utilisation of energy and raw materials.
Core impacts
for the year ended  
31 Dec 2013
General waste
1
2,183
Recycled factory  
waste & cardboard
2
1,503
Water
3
217m
3
1
 Tonnes of waste to landfill
2
 Tonnes of production waste
3
 Per £million of Company revenue
Essentra is committed to ensuring good 
environmental practices at all its locations,  
in its operational processes and investment 
decisions. Essentra’s principal manufacturing 
locations are ISO 14001 accredited, and all the 
Company’s European businesses comply with 
EU and domestic regulations.
Due to the scale of Essentra’s international 
operations, the use of energy and raw 
materials has both environmental and 
commercial importance. Where possible,  
and financially viable, raw materials and  
energy from renewable resources are utilised  
to limit environmental impact, commercial  
risk and costs.
Essentra actively engages with its employees, 
customers, and suppliers to exploit 
opportunities offered by new technologies, 
improved process operations and novel 
materials, to reduce its environmental  
impact and improve profitability further.
Supplier standards are subject to review  
by the Company’s employees who audit  
their environmental credentials. 1
4
7 8
5 6
2 3
9
10 11
13
12
1
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 4. MALCOLM WAUGH
Group Commercial Director
Malcolm Waugh joined Essentra in 2007  
as Managing Director of Payne Tear Tape,  
and was appointed to his current role in 
January 2012. Prior to joining Essentra,  
Malcolm was Commercial Director at  
Tetra Pak UK and Ireland, holding a variety  
of business development and commercial 
positions during his 18-year career there.
3. HUGH ROSS
Managing Director, Europe
Hugh Ross joined Essentra in 1999.  
Before being appointed to his current  
role in January 2014, Hugh was President  
of the Speciality Tapes business, prior to  
which he held increasingly senior roles in  
the Filter Products and the Packaging & 
Securing Solutions divisions in North America. 
Hugh is a Chartered Accountant, having 
qualified with PricewaterhouseCoopers,  
and served as an Officer in the British Army. 
6. JOANNA SPEED
Corporate Affairs Director
Joanna Speed joined Essentra in 2011 as 
Corporate Affairs Director, having previously  
held the position of Investor Relations Director  
at Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Scottish  
& Newcastle plc. Prior to this, Joanna was  
an equity analyst and worked in investment 
banking for a number of international banks. 
Joanna is a Chartered Accountant, having 
qualified with Arthur Andersen. 
12. STEFAN SCHELLINGER
Corporate Development Director
Stefan Schellinger joined Essentra as  
Corporate Development Director in 2013, 
before which he was Finance Director – 
Emerging Markets at Gilbarco Veeder Root 
from 2011, having initially joined the Danaher 
Corporation as Director, Corporate 
Development – Europe in 2005. Prior to this, 
Stefan worked in investment banking at  
JP Morgan and is a Chartered Accountant,  
having qualified with Arthur Andersen.
13. ALAN TIDY
Group Human Resources Director
Alan Tidy joined Essentra in 2005 as  
Group Human Resources Director. Alan  
was previously HR Director at Wagon plc,  
prior to which he held divisional HR roles  
at Caradon plc and Rio Tinto plc. Alan is 
Chairman of the Essentra UK Pension  
Trustee Board and a Chartered Member  
of the Institute of Personnel and 
Development.
Alan is retiring from Essentra and will be 
succeeded by Gavin Leathem in March 2014.
11. ALAN RICHARDS
Group Operations Director
Alan Richards joined Essentra as Group 
Operations Director in 2012. Prior to  
joining Essentra, Alan was Senior Director  
– Manufacturing Excellence at the Mars  
Group, and has held a number of  
increasingly senior operational roles in  
the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and mining 
industries. Since 1 January 2013 Alan has  
been responsible for the Group’s Health,  
Safety & Environment practices.
9. PT SREEKUMAR
Managing Director, Filter Products
PT Sreekumar joined Essentra in 1995,  
being initially responsible for the Company’s 
joint venture in India. Before being appointed 
to his current role in 2005, Sreekumar was 
Regional Director for Asia Pacific, responsible 
for the business in Asia and the Middle East. 
Prior to joining Essentra, Sreekumar worked for 
the Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
10. JON GREEN
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, and  
was appointed Company Secretary &  
General Counsel in July 2005. Prior to joining 
Essentra, Jon worked as an in-house lawyer  
for a number of large international businesses, 
including Hays plc and Unilever plc. Jon is a 
qualified solicitor. 
8. MARTIN DALLAS
Managing Director, Specialist Technologies
Martin Dallas joined Essentra in 2012 as 
Managing Director of Consumer Packaging, 
and was appointed to his current role in 
February 2014. Prior to joining Essentra,  
Martin was Sales & Marketing Director for 
Europe and the Americas at Amcor Flexible 
Packaging before which he was Commercial 
Development Director – Europe, Middle East  
& Africa at Cadbury plc, having held a variety 
of increasingly senior commercial positions 
during his 26-year career there.
1. COLIN DAY
Chief Executive
Colin’s biographical details  
can be found on page 51 .
2. MATTHEW GREGORY
Group Finance Director
Matthew’s biographical details  
can be found on page 51 .
5. BRETT YORK
President, Americas
Brett York joined Essentra in 2001 as Vice 
President of Sales & Marketing for Alliance 
Plastics. Before being appointed to his current 
role in January 2014, Brett held the position of 
President of Component Distribution Americas 
from 2012 and President of the Speciality Tapes 
business from 2007 . Prior to joining Essentra, 
Brett held a variety of increasingly senior 
commercial and operational positions at a 
number of companies, including Industrial 
Molding Corp., Waddington and PepsiCo. 
7 . SCOTT FAWCETT
Managing Director, Distribution
Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010  
as Managing Director of the Moss Plastic  
Parts business, and was appointed to his 
current role in January 2014. Prior to joining  
Essentra, Scott was Head of eCommerce  
at Electrocomponents plc, where he held  
a variety of increasingly senior sales, marketing 
and eCommerce positions during his 17-year 
career there.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 49 GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 1 2 3
4 5
6 7
50 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5. TERRY TWIGGER
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: June 2009
Skills and experience
Terry has considerable mergers and 
acquisitions experience and has also held  
a number of senior finance roles, including 
having previously been Finance Director at 
Meggitt PLC. Prior to his retirement in 2013, 
Terry was Chief Executive of Meggitt.
Past appointments
Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, Director  
of Lucas plc.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee,  
member of the Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
4. MATTHEW GREGORY
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board: September 2012
Skills and experience
Matthew joined Essentra in 2003 as Finance 
Director of the Moss Plastic Parts business  
and became Finance Director of the Protection 
& Finishing Products division in 2006. Before 
being appointed to his current role in 2012, 
Matthew was Corporate Development Director 
where he played a key role in the development 
of the Company’s strategy and in building its 
mergers and acquisitions capability. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Matthew worked for the  
Rank Group plc in a number of senior finance 
positions. Matthew is a Chartered Accountant, 
having qualified with Ernst & Young.
6. LORRAINE TRAINER
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2013
Skills and experience
Lorraine began her executive career  
at Citibank, and has some 20 years’  
experience in Human Resources at such 
blue-chip companies as the London  
Stock Exchange and Coutts NatWest Group.  
Lorraine currently combines her Board work 
with consultancy at and around Board level  
in Director development.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director of Colt Group S.A.  
and Jupiter Fund Management plc.
Past appointments
Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
1. JEFF HARRIS
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board: May 2005
Skills and experience
Chairman of Essentra since its formation  
in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in ensuring 
continuity upon demerger and in the 
subsequent development of the Company.  
Jeff is a Chartered Accountant, having spent 
over 25 years working in public companies,  
and brings a wealth of experience to Essentra.
 
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director of Synergy Health plc. 
Past appointments
Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance 
UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman  
of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of 
Associated British Foods plc, Non-Executive 
Chairman of Cookson Group plc and 
Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC. 
 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
2. PAUL DRECHSLER
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2005
 
Skills and experience
Paul is currently the Chairman of the Teach 
First charitable organisation. Having served  
on the Board of Essentra since its formation  
in 2005, Paul has played a key role in the 
development of the Company, particularly 
regarding its remuneration policy. Paul brings 
extensive business experience to his role, 
having spent 24 years at ICI plc in a variety of 
senior positions and at Wates Group Limited as 
Chairman and Chief Executive. 
Other appointments
Chairman of Teach First, member of the Trinity 
College Dublin Business School Advisory Board, 
Board member of CBI, member of the Board of 
Business in the Community and Chairman of 
the Education Leadership Team. 
Past appointments
Chairman and Chief Executive of Wates  
Group Limited, Executive Director of ICI plc,  
Chairman of the ICI Group pension fund. 
Committee membership 
Chairman of the Remuneration  
Committee, member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees.
3. COLIN DAY
Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board: April 2011
Skills and experience
Prior to joining Essentra, Colin was Chief 
Financial Officer at Reckitt Benckiser Group  
plc for over ten years. In addition to leading the 
finance function there, Colin was instrumental 
in both mergers and acquisitions activity and 
the development of group strategy. Before 
joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a range  
of senior finance and operational positions  
at a variety of companies.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc  
and AMEC plc.
Past appointments
Chief Financial Officer of Aegis Group plc, 
Non-Executive Director of EasyJet plc,  
Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Cadbury plc.
7 . PETER HILL, CBE
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2013
Skills and experience
Peter is currently Chairman of the speciality 
chemicals business Alent plc, where he also 
chairs the Nominations Committee. Peter 
brings a wealth of experience to Essentra, 
gained in particular in increasingly senior 
operational and strategic executive roles,  
and has also served on a number of Boards  
in a Non-Executive capacity for over 20 years. 
 
Other appointments
Chairman of Alent plc, Non-Executive Director 
of the Royal Air Force.
Past appointments
Chief Executive of Laird PLC, Executive 
Director of Constain Group PLC, Non-
Executive Director of Cookson Group plc, 
Meggitt PLC and Oxford Instruments plc, 
Non-Executive Board member of UK Trade 
and Investment.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 51 BOARD OF DIRECTORS FURTHER PROGRESS IN 
DELIVERY OF VISION 2015
AS ESSENTRA HAS CONTINUED ITS STRONG GROWTH, 
THE BOARD HAS MADE FURTHER PROGRESS IN 
RESPONSE TO THE INCREASING DEMANDS OF  
THE GOVERNANCE AGENDA.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
In 2013 Essentra continued to deliver  
its Vision 2015 strategic objectives, with 
impressive organic growth supported by 
value-adding transactions. Indeed, both 
recent acquisitions and an increasingly 
co-ordinated and horizontal management 
approach have established a strong 
foundation for further development of  
the Group’s operations in both existing  
and new markets and geographies. 
Risk appetite
The Board continues to focus on strategy  
and sets the performance targets for the 
Group. The executive management team is 
empowered to deliver those targets, through 
appropriate levels of delegated authority and 
support. During the year the Board reviewed 
the risk appetite for the Group and maintained 
its focus on ensuring the appropriate balancing 
of risk and reward in the Company’s pursuit  
of its strategic objectives, overseeing the 
delivery of continued strong growth, within  
the parameters of the Board’s established 
appetite for risk.
Board responsibilities
The rigorous monitoring of financial and 
operational performance has remained 
fundamental to the fulfilment of the Board’s 
responsibilities during the year. The pace of 
development within the Group remains 
founded on strong governance, based on 
transparency and integrity driven by an 
effective Board, with appropriate internal 
controls and a comprehensive understanding 
of risk. 
Code compliance
I am pleased to confirm that the Group 
complied throughout the year with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, except 
for the period between February 2013 and the 
beginning of July 2013 when the Committees 
operated with only two independent directors. 
This was rectified in July 2013 with the 
appointment of new Non-Executive Directors.
 
The required regulatory and governance 
assurances are provided throughout this 
report. The Board has received regular updates 
on the various legislative and governance- 
related developments which occurred during 
the year, and I am committed to ensuring that 
the highest standards of governance and 
compliance are maintained across the Group. 
Audit Committee
The work of the Audit Committee has 
continued to focus on the integrity of  
financial reporting and the oversight of  
the risk management process and internal 
controls across the Group. The latest 
governance requirements provide for  
the Committee to give a more detailed 
assessment of the key matters under 
consideration and the potential impact  
on the financial statements for the year. 
During the year the Group Assurance  
function developed and implemented a  
new risk framework which has been developed 
using real time on-line reporting. This will 
continue to ensure the Company’s expansion 
does not prejudice the strength of its controls 
and processes.
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee 
continued to be challenging during 2013, 
seeking to reward executives fairly for some 
very strong results and setting remuneration  
at levels which will attract new key executives 
to the Group, while being sensitive to the 
restraint expected in the current economic 
environment. The importance of the drive to 
attract, retain and motivate the team required 
to deliver the objectives of Vision 2015 and 
beyond necessitates the Remuneration 
Committee to ensure that the Company’s 
practices and incentives are appropriate, 
while maintaining a clear alignment with  
the interests of shareholders. Indeed, the high 
levels of share ownership required of the Group 
Leadership Team, illustrate the commitment  
to ensuring that alignment. 
Core values and behaviours
I strongly believe that good governance is 
founded on the core values and behaviours 
established by the Board and communicated 
throughout the Group. The Company has a 
strong culture of high standards of business 
ethics based on clear principles. The Board’s 
participation in the Company’s compliance 
training programmes, and its commitment to 
the development of new policies and practices 
in response to the increasing level of regulation 
impacting its global operations, serves to 
ensure that the “tone from the top” is clearly 
understood and reinforced.
As the Group continues to grow in size and 
complexity, one of the greatest challenges 
facing the Board is to ensure that we have  
in place the right people, culture and processes  
to exploit fully the opportunities for further 
balanced growth, and to manage effectively 
the risks to which the business is exposed.
Board evaluation
It is essential that the Company has a fully 
engaged and committed Board with an 
appropriate mix of skills, experience and 
knowledge, which is capable of engaging in 
positive and constructive debate to meet such 
challenges. The Board re-engaged Lintstock to 
undertake the annual review of the Board and 
its Committees and the individual directors, 
including myself.
Following a full evaluation last year, the process 
this year consisted of a questionnaire tailored 
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER ETHICAL 
We are open and 
honest, acting  
with integrity in  
our dealings with 
stakeholders and  
with respect for  
the environment.
ESTEEM
We treat others  
as we would wish  
to be treated 
ourselves – with 
dignity, respect  
and fairness.
ENERGY
We are unstinting in  
our drive for continuous 
improvement and  
in our commitment  
to maximise value  
for our shareholders.
ENTHUSIASM
We are passionate 
about what we  
do, celebrating  
our successes and 
learning from  
our experiences.
EXCELLENCE
We strive to exceed 
expectations,  
every day and in 
everything that  
we do.
ENTERPRISE 
We aspire to think 
differently and  
to challenge 
the status quo.
“ I AND THE BOARD CONTINUE TO SEEK 
WAYS IN WHICH WE CAN ENSURE THAT 
ESSENTRA’S GOVERNANCE DELIVERS 
ADDITIONAL VALUE FOR THE BENEFIT  
OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS”
JEFF HARRIS
to the specific circumstances of Essentra, that 
reiterated the importance of ongoing training 
for Directors in seeking to ensure clear 
understanding of material developments  
and issues potentially impacting the Company. 
Ensuring best practice risk management is  
a key priority of the Board and it is intended  
to undertake an externally facilitated review  
to drive further improvements in the Board’s 
performance in the oversight and 
management of risk, within clearly delivered 
parameters which are established and 
understood across the Group. 
The Lintstock report concluded that the Board 
continues to fulfil its responsibilities effectively, 
and that its performance has continued to 
improve. In response to the issues identified in 
last year’s review, the Board and the Executives 
worked hard to ensure the Board was focused 
on the key strategic issues facing the Company 
and that meetings and agendas reflected the 
appropriate balance. A focused strategy 
day outside of the usual Board business 
provided a great opportunity to discuss the 
future development of the Company afresh. 
Changes to the composition of the Board 
have also contributed to developing the 
interaction between Directors and the 
management teams. It is planned that 
external Board monitoring will be undertaken 
in the future. 
There is no related party connection with 
Lintstock, other than the work carried out  
on an arm’s length basis.
Employee engagement
I visited a number of Essentra facilities  
during the year and plan to tour a number  
of other sites during 2014. I am always  
greatly impressed by the commitment and 
enthusiasm of my colleagues wherever I travel 
in the world. In particular, a visit to three of our 
sites in the US reminded me of the diversity of 
the operations within the Group. The Board 
visited the Company’s facilities at Jarrow and 
Portsmouth, UK in September and also at 
Houston, US in October. It is anticipated that 
Board meetings will continue to be held  
at at least two operational sites during 2014,  
to ensure the Board remains in touch with local 
managements and teams.
As you will have seen, the Group successfully 
rebranded to Essentra plc during 2013. The 
Board and I are particularly pleased with  
how this change has been embraced so 
enthusiastically by my colleagues around  
the world, which has helped to increase the 
cohesion of the Group amongst Essentra 
employees worldwide.
 
Board changes
We significantly strengthened the Board  
during the year with the appointment of  
two independent Non-Executive Directors, 
ENTHUSIASM EXCELLENCE ENERGY
ESTEEM ETHICAL ENTERPRISE
CHAIRMAN
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 53 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
ESSENTRA VALUES Peter Hill and Lorraine Trainer. Both have 
enjoyed highly successful executive careers, 
and bring to the Company a wealth of Board 
experience and insight, gained in a variety of 
industries and over a number of years. 
Paul Drechsler will be stepping down as the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director,  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and also as a member of the various Board 
Committees following the 2014 AGM. Paul  
has been a Non-Executive Director since  
the formation of the Company in 2005,  
and as such will, in accordance with the 
Corporate Governance Code, no longer be 
considered as independent after May 2014.  
We are pleased that Paul will continue as a 
Non-Executive Director such that the Board 
and the Committees continue to receive the 
benefits of his experience and knowledge  
of Essentra.
Following the 2014 AGM, it is intended that 
Lorraine Trainer will be appointed as the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
subject to her election as a Non-Executive 
Director. Lorraine has some 20 years’ 
experience in the Human Resources field, and  
I am sure she will lead the Committee through 
the continuously changing and challenging 
environment in which it operates.
Terry Twigger, who has been a member of the 
Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee
since June 2009 , will be appointed as the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 
subject to his election as a Non-Executive 
Director.
During 2014 I anticipate that the Board  
will move forward with plans to add a new 
Non-Executive Director as we conclude the 
refreshment of the Board, to secure the skills 
necessary to drive the next stages of the 
Company’s growth beyond Vision 2015 and 
provide appropriate ongoing succession planning.
I joined the Board at the same time as  
Paul, and I have committed to continue  
in my role as Chairman to ensure continuity, 
particularly in light of changes to the 
composition of the Board.
The Board noted with regret the passing  
of Lars Emilson in June 2013. Lars resigned  
as a Non-Executive Director in February 2013 
on health grounds, having served on the Board 
since 2007 . He was a valued colleague who 
made a significant contribution to the 
development and success of the Company, 
and will be sadly missed by all who worked  
with him.
Succession diversity
The Nomination Committee will continue  
its work, having proper regard to the benefits  
of diversity, to ensure that the composition  
of the Board continues to be appropriate for 
the Company as it makes further progress 
towards its strategic objectives. The Board’s 
commitment remains to ensuring that it 
employs the best people to do the best job  
for the benefit of the Group and its shareholders, 
in line with its diversity policy. And during  
the year there have been a number of senior 
management changes as the Group seeks to 
secure a talent base capable of delivering its 
strategic objectives. 
While the Nomination Committee primarily 
devotes its attention to Board succession,  
the Board has increased its focus on reviewing 
the quality of executive management and the 
processes for finding and developing a diverse, 
mobile and international talent base. Additional 
resources have been made available to  
pursue this objective, with the implementation  
of an improved global talent management 
system to identify and manage the  
Company’s pipeline. 
The Graduate Development Programme 
continues to recruit from different universities 
in several countries, and the success of this 
development programme can readily be seen 
in the high number of graduates now working 
internationally in a number of key management 
roles across the Group.
Governance agenda
In summary, as the Company continues  
its strong growth, we have made excellent 
progress in response to the increasing 
demands of the governance agenda, both 
internally and externally. However, just as  
the Company continually looks for new  
ways to improve its financial and operational 
performance, I and the rest of the Board 
remain receptive to ways in which we can 
develop our practices, to ensure that the 
Company’s governance delivers additional 
value for the benefit of shareholders.
JEFF HARRIS 
Chairman
20 February 2014
Strategy  
– Deliver further progress towards 
strategic objectives of Vision 2015  
and beyond
Financial performance
 –  Continued delivery of balanced 
profitable growth
 – Improve year on year dividend
Succession planning  
– Maintain focus on international 
talent management 
Risk  
– Secure value from improved 
management of risk 
Compliance  
– Ensure tone from the top drives 
highest standards of behaviours 
 > Review of performance and benchmarking 
against Vision 2015 objectives
 > Delivery of four acquisitions and one JV
 > Approval of investment opportunities  
to drive future growth 
 > Continued improvement in revenue
 > Margin improvement
 > Increased dividend
 > Appointment of two Non-Executive Directors 
 > Review of talent base in conjunction with 
move to a new matrix structure 
 > Development of talent programmes 
 > Further review of risk management practices
 > Assessment of cyber security risk 
 > Review of developments in the governance 
and compliance landscape
 > Further focus on compliance activities 
 > Developing strategic objectives  
beyond 2015
 > Continue developing the organisation 
structure to drive future growth
 > Continued improvement in revenue
 > Increased profitability 
 > Dividend progression
 > Drive ROCE
 > Ensure succession planning within new 
organisation structure
 > Oversee talent management programmes 
for key personnel 
 > Ensure alignment of risk appetite with 
strategic objectives
 > Drive continuous improvement in risk 
management practices
 > Further develop understanding of the 
management of IT system risk 
 > Reinforce and closely monitor leaderships 
commitment to the tone
 > Ensure compliance programmes respond  
to new vulnerabilities or concerns
2013 OBJECTIVES PROGRESS 2014 PRIORITIES
54 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Supports the Board in establishing formal and transparent 
arrangements for considering how it should apply the  
required financial reporting, internal control principles  
and risk management processes, and the audit of the  
financial statements of the Company
Is responsible for selecting and recommending candidates  
for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors  
of the Company, taking into account the balance, 
structure and composition of the Board and the future 
challenges and opportunities facing the Company
Is responsible for making recommendations to the Board  
on remuneration policy and aligning senior executives’ 
remuneration with the interests of shareholders and  
other stakeholders, particularly in the design of the 
performance-related elements of remuneration packages
The Essentra Board is accountable to all of the Company’s 
stakeholders for the standards of governance which are 
maintained across Essentra’s diverse range of global businesses.  
In fulfilling its role, the Board:
 > Sets the Company’s strategic aims 
 > Determines the nature and extent of acceptable risks  
in achieving its strategic objectives 
 > Oversees the establishment of formal and transparent 
arrangements for the application of corporate reporting, risk 
management and internal control requirements and principles
 > Ensures that the necessary financial and human resources  
are in place for the Company to meet its objectives
 > Sets the Company’s values and standards
 > Reviews the performance of the Company’s executive 
management 
 > Presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment  
of the Company’s position and prospects to its shareholders
The GMC provides general executive management of the 
Company within agreed delegated authority limits determined  
by the Board.
In fulfilling its role, the GMC:
 > Develops and implements strategy, financial and operational 
plans and targets and allocates resources
 > Monitors and delivers financial and operating performance
 > Maintains an effective internal control framework and is 
responsible for compliance
 > Implements an effective management structure and develops 
effective succession plans
 > Is responsible for effective internal and external reporting  
and communication
The GLT comprises the most senior managers from across the 
Group who are collectively charged with driving the achievement 
of Essentra’s Vision 2015 strategy. It has a key role in reinforcing 
the behaviours that contribute to a robust governance culture 
across the Group
THE BOARD THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
THE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
THE GROUP LEADERSHIP TEAM
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 55 Board of Directors’ meeting attendance
Board Chairman: Jeff Harris
Membership and attendance
Jeff Harris 6 (6)
Colin Day 6 (6)
Matthew Gregory 6 (6)
Paul Drechsler 6 (6)
Peter Hill 4 (4)
Terry Twigger 6 (6)
Lorraine Trainer 3 (4)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number  
of meetings that could have been attended.
Lorraine Trainer was unable to attend a Board 
meeting due to an engagement arranged prior 
to her appointment as a Director.
The Essentra Board is accountable to all the 
Company’s stakeholders for the standards  
of governance which are maintained across 
Essentra’s diverse range of global businesses. 
During the year, Essentra was and continues  
to be subject to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the “Code”) published by the Financial 
Reporting Council, a copy of which can be 
found on their website www.frc.org.uk.  
The edition of the Code published in 
September 2012 applied throughout the  
year ended 31 December 2013. The Financial 
Conduct Authority has yet to change the 
Listing Rules, and therefore requires that 
certain complicance statements are made  
in relation to the edition of the Code issued  
in June 2010. This report addresses the 
requirements of both editions of the Code. 
Essentra confirms that the Company has 
complied with the Code except for the period 
between 5 February 2013 and 30 June 2013. 
During this period the Audit Committee and 
Remuneration Committee operated with only 
two independent Non-Executive Directors.  
This was unavoidable due to the unexpected 
resignation of Lars Emilson. The Company 
immediately took steps to recruit a successor 
but due to its rigorous recruitment procedures 
was unable to fulfil the position until later in 
the year. During this intervening period the 
Committees continued to hold meetings and 
to act in accordance with their terms of 
reference. These meetings were attended by 
the Chairman of the Board and 
suitable independent advice was taken when 
appropriate. The Board was satisfied that the 
meetings were conducted in accordance with 
the spirit of the Code.
The Company applies the Code’s principles of 
openness, integrity and accountability through 
its own behaviour, corporate governance best 
practice and by adopting, as appropriate and 
proportionate for a company of the size and 
nature of Essentra, recommendations of 
relevant professional bodies.
The Company’s governance structure,  
based on the leadership principles of the  
Code, were reviewed during the year, and  
in seeking to continuously improve its structure 
introduced a Treasury Committee. From 
1 January 2014, an Operational Risk 
Management Committee and an Executive 
Risk Committee were also introduced. 
The Board is collectively responsible for the 
long-term success of the Company and its  
role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership 
within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls, which enables risk to be assessed  
and managed in the pursuit of the Company’s 
strategic objectives.
The Essentra Board is accountable to all the 
Company’s stakeholders for the standards  
of governance which are maintained across 
Essentra’s diverse range of global businesses.
In fulfilling its role, the Board:
 > Sets and continually reviews the Company’s 
strategic aims 
 > Determines the nature and extent of 
acceptable risks in achieving its strategic 
objectives 
 > Oversees the establishment of formal  
and transparent arrangements for the 
application of corporate reporting,  
risk management and internal control 
requirements and principles
 > Ensures that the necessary financial  
and human resources are in place for  
the Company to meet its objectives
 > Sets the Company’s values and standards 
 > Reviews the performance of the Company’s 
executive management 
 > Presents a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and  
prospects to its shareholders
Board composition and independence
As at the date of this report the Board has 
seven members comprising a Non-Executive 
Chairman, two Executive Directors and four 
Non-Executive Directors. The names of the 
Directors serving at the end of 2013 and their 
biographical details are set out on page 51 .  
All Directors served throughout the year, save 
as noted below.
Peter Hill – appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 July 2013
Lorraine Trainer – appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2013
Lars Emilson – resigned as a Non-Executive 
Director with effect from 5 February 2013
The Board believes that it and its Committees 
have an appropriate composition to discharge 
their duties effectively and that the members 
of the Board in conjunction with the senior 
executive teams are well equipped to drive, 
and are capable of delivering, the Company’s 
Vision 2015 strategy and longer-term objectives. 
The Board is of the view that it has a highly 
competent Chairman who, together with each 
of the other Non-Executive Directors, has 
considerable international experience at a 
senior level in the management of activities 
broadly similar to those carried out by Essentra 
and the material issues likely to arise for  
the Group.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive are separately held and are so 
defined as to ensure a clear separation  
of responsibilities. Details are available on  
the Company website www.essentra.com.  
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures  
its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is 
responsible for the executive management  
and performance of Essentra’s operations. 
Together with the primary responsibilities  
of the Senior Independent Director and  
the Non-Executive Directors there is a system 
which exists of checks and balances in  
which no individual has unfettered decision- 
making power.
Roles
The Senior Independent (“SI”) Non-Executive 
Director, currently Paul Drechsler, can be 
contacted via the Company’s registered office. 
In that role he is available to shareholders to 
discuss and develop an understanding of their 
issues and any concerns which cannot be 
resolved by discussions with the Chairman,  
the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director 
or where such contact is inappropriate. 
56 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMAN
 > Leads the Board
 > Ensures effective communication with 
shareholders
 > Ensures effective communication flows 
between Directors
 > Facilitates the effective communication  
of all Directors
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
 > Implements strategy
 > Develops manageable goals and priorities
 > Leads and motivates the management 
teams 
 > Develops proposals to present to  
the Board on all areas reserved for  
its judgement
For the year ended 31 December 2013  
it was the opinion of the Board that  
the Non-Executive Directors were each 
considered to be independent of 
management. In assessing independence,  
the Board considers that the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors are independent of 
management and free from business and 
other relationships which could interfere with 
the exercise of independent judgement now 
and in the future. The Board believes that  
any shareholdings of the Chairman and  
Non-Executive Directors serve to align their 
interests with those of the shareholders. 
The Board considers that the Non-Executive 
Directors provide an independent view in  
Board discussions and in the development  
of the Company’s strategy. Non-Executive 
Directors also ensure a sound basis for good 
corporate governance for the Company, 
challenging management’s performance  
and, in conjunction with the Executive 
Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial 
controls and systems of risk management  
are maintained as appropriate to the needs  
of the businesses within Essentra. 
The Board is content that the Non-Executive 
Directors devote sufficient time to the business 
of Essentra. 
Jeff Harris was appointed to the board of 
Synergy Health plc as a Non-Executive Director 
and as the Senior Independent Director from  
1 September 2013. The Board considers that 
despite this appointment, the Chairman of  
the Board continues to be able to allocate 
sufficient time to the Company and to 
discharge his responsibilities effectively.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive 
Directors are available for review at the 
Company’s registered office and prior to  
the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
The Company’s Articles of Association  
require that all new Directors seek election  
to the Board at the AGM following their 
appointment. In addition, the Board has 
agreed that, in compliance with the Code,  
all current Directors will put themselves 
forward for re-election on an annual basis. 
Following the Board performance evaluation 
undertaken during the financial year, the 
Board is satisfied that each of the Directors 
being put forward for re-election at the  
AGM continues to be effective and that  
their ongoing commitment to the role is 
undiminished.
The conduct of Board matters
In managing the affairs of the Company,  
the Board has adopted a schedule of reserved 
matters which are to be reviewed annually 
including:
 > Strategy and resources
 > Annual plan
 > Treasury policies
 > Major capital and operating  
expenditure proposals
 > Major acquisitions and disposals
 > Debt facilities
 > Key Group policies
 > Appointments to the Board
 > Systems of internal control
 > Dividend payments
 > Categories of public announcements
The detailed implementation of all these,  
and general operational matters are the 
responsibility of executive senior management 
and regular formal management reports  
are provided to the Board. 
During 2013, the Board was closely engaged  
in the detailed monitoring of performance  
and the actions necessary to maintain the 
balanced, profitable growth of the Company  
in accordance with its Vision 2015 objectives.  
It also remained focused on the longer-term 
strategic objectives which it has defined and 
the appropriate management of particular 
risks impacting the Group within the risk 
appetite parameters which were defined  
by the Board during the year.
Boards and Committees
During the year there were six scheduled  
Board meetings, one of which was held at  
the Filter Products Jarrow, UK, facility, and  
one of which was held at the Pipe Protection 
Technology Houston, US site. In addition  
to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board 
met on a number of other occasions as 
required and, in particular, reviewed in detail, 
the further development and delivery of the 
Group strategy. The Chairman and Chief 
Executive maintain regular contact with  
the Directors, and the Chairman also holds  
as appropriate, from time to time, informal 
discussions with Non-Executive Directors 
individually or collectively without any of  
the Executive Directors being present,  
to review performance, discuss succession 
issues, to monitor corporate control 
mechanisms and to discuss any other material 
matters relevant to the Board. Two opportunities 
to facilitate such discussions between the 
Non-Executive Directors were arranged during 
the year. 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary & General Counsel, sets 
the programme for the Board during the year. 
The Board considers reports from the Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director 
covering operational, financial performance 
and other significant business issues.  
Board meetings are structured to allow  
open discussion and all Directors participate  
in determining the Group’s strategy and 
regularly reviewing the trading and financial 
performance of the Company.
Committees are a valuable part of the 
Company’s corporate governance structure 
and the Board looks to the Audit Committee  
in particular to undertake the majority of  
the work involved in monitoring and seeking 
assurance as to compliance with the controls 
within this framework. However, the Board as 
a whole maintains oversight of such important 
matters and after each committee meeting 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports 
on the matters which have been reviewed.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated  
to the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. These Committees report  
as appropriate to the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Engagement with management
The Board receives detailed reports at each 
scheduled Board meeting on the operational 
and financial performance of the businesses 
from the Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director, together with regular 
updates on any material issues which may 
impact the Group.
The Board received detailed presentations  
from senior management across a range  
of businesses within the Company during  
the course of the year, in addition to reviewing 
strategic plans and budgets across the 
Company. The Board also considers reports 
from senior functional management about 
matters of material importance to the 
Company which arise from time to time. 
There is a programme of meetings, both 
formal and informal, with members of  
the senior executive management and  
the Board has the opportunity to engage  
with local management during site visits.  
The Board derives a better understanding  
of the Company’s operations and business  
model as a result of such contact.
Applying Essentra’s Corporate 
Responsibility principles
The Chief Executive is the Director with  
primary responsibility for the implementation 
and integration of Essentra’s Corporate 
Responsibility principles across the Company. 
During 2013 the Group Operations Director, 
supported by the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel, was responsible for  
co-ordinating the operation of detailed policies 
on health and safety , ethics and the environment 
which support Essentra’s commitment to its 
Corporate Responsibility principles. Further 
details of these policies can be viewed via  
the Corporate Responsibility page on the 
Company’s website at www.essentra.com. 
Conflict of interests
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid  
actual or potential conflicts of interest.  
The Company’s Articles of Association  
permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, 
to authorise situations where a Director has an 
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. In addition, 
the Company has a conflict of interests policy 
governing the responsibilities of Directors in 
such situations. The decision to authorise  
a conflict of interest can only be made by 
non-conflicted Directors (those who have  
no interest in the matter being considered) 
and in making such a decision the Directors 
must act honestly and in good faith when 
giving authorisation where they think this is 
appropriate, and will be most likely to promote 
the Company’s success. The Company 
Secretary & General Counsel maintains  
a register of Directors’ interests so that any 
potential concerns are addressed before any 
material concerns may arise. During the course 
of the year, there were no material conflicts of 
interest impacting on the conduct of the 
Board’s activities.
Information and professional development
The Chairman, supported by the Company 
Secretary & General Counsel, takes 
responsibility for ensuring that the Directors 
receive accurate, timely and clear information.
On appointment an induction programme 
tailored to their individual needs is available  
to Directors and is designed to assist them  
in their understanding of Essentra and its 
operations. Throughout a Director’s tenure 
they are encouraged to develop their 
knowledge of the Group through meetings 
with senior management and site visits. 
Directors are also provided with updates,  
as appropriate, on matters such as fiduciary 
duties, Companies Act requirements,  
share dealing restrictions and corporate 
governance matters. 
All Directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel who is responsible to  
the Chairman for ensuring that Board 
procedures are complied with and that 
applicable rules and regulations are followed. 
During the year under review the Company 
Secretary & General Counsel’s advice was 
sought in relation to share dealings.  
In the furtherance of their duties, there are 
agreed procedures for the Directors to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary, 
at the Company’s expense. No Director took 
independent professional advice during  
the year.
Performance evaluation
The Board engaged Lintstock Ltd to undertake 
an evaluation of the performance of the Board 
in 2013, following up on the review process 
conducted in 2012.
Each of the Committees has terms of 
reference approved by the Board, copies of 
which are available on the Company’s website 
or on request from the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel.
Operational matters and the responsibility  
for the day-to-day management of the 
businesses are delegated to the Chief 
Executive, supported by members of senior 
executive management and the respective 
Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents as 
appropriate, within delegated authority limits 
and in accordance with clearly defined systems 
of internal control. 
During 2014 Essentra will transition to a  
more matrix organisational structure, with the 
establishment of three geographical regions  
to supplement the existing divisional structure.
The role of the regions will be to drive in-market 
execution, with the divisions and the newly- 
created strategic business units (SBUs) taking 
responsibility for those activities of a longer-
term more strategic nature.
The Chief Executive will continue to be 
supported by the GMC which will consist  
of senior executive management, regional  
and SBU heads. The GMC will continue to have 
delegated authority limits in accordance with 
clearly defined internal controls established by 
the Board.
The Board was supported during the year by 
the GMC, which ensures a strong link between 
Essentra’s overall corporate strategy and its 
implementation within an effective internal 
control environment.
The GMC provides general executive 
management of the Company within agreed 
delegated authority limits determined by  
the Board:
 > Developing and implementing strategy, 
financial and operational plans and targets 
and allocates resources
 > Monitoring and delivering financial and 
operating performance
 > Maintaining an effective internal control 
framework and taking responsibility for 
compliance
 > Implementing an effective management 
structure and develop effective  
succession plans
58 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTOR’S REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The first stage of the review involved  
Lintstock engaging with the Chairman and  
the Company Secretary & General Counsel  
to set the context for the evaluation and to 
tailor the questionnaires to the specific 
circumstances of Essentra. All respondents 
were then requested to complete an online 
questionnaire addressing the performance of 
the Board, the Committees and the Chairman.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report 
which addressed the following areas:
 > The current size and composition of  
the Board were reviewed, and the  
Board’s understanding of the opportunities,  
risks and challenges associated with  
the Company’s strategic objectives,  
and of the views of major investors  
and stakeholders, were considered
 > The dynamics between the Board  
members and between the Board  
and senior management were evaluated
 > The management of time at the Board  
and the Board’s annual cycle of work  
were considered, and the support  
afforded to the Board was assessed
 > The Board’s oversight of the Group’s 
strategy for Vision 2015 and beyond  
was reviewed, and the Board members’ 
views as to the top strategic issues  
facing the Company were identified
 > The risk appetite of the Board was 
evaluated, as were the Board’s 
management and oversight of risk
 > The succession plans for Executive Directors 
and for key management positions beneath 
the Board were assessed, and the Board 
members’ views as to the top priorities for 
the incoming Human Resources Director 
were identified
 > The composition and performance of the 
Committees of the Board were considered, 
as was the performance of the Chairman 
and individual Directors
It is envisaged that Lintstock will conduct  
an appraisal in 2014 to follow up on the issues 
raised in this year’s process. The review content 
for each subsequent evaluation is designed  
to build upon learning gained in the previous 
year, to ensure that the recommendations 
agreed in the review are implemented and  
that year-on-year progress is measured.
Shareholder communications
The Board recognises the importance of 
effective communication and seeks to 
maintain open and transparent relationships 
with its shareholders and other stakeholders, 
including providers of finance, customers and 
suppliers. This is achieved by regular updates 
through press announcements, the corporate 
website and other published material.
The Company also communicates regularly 
with its major institutional shareholders and 
ensures that all the Directors, including the 
Non-Executive Directors, have an 
understanding of the views and concerns  
of major shareholders and are able to explain 
business developments and financial results  
as appropriate. The Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director and the Corporate Affairs 
Director have primary responsibility for  
investor relations. Presentations for analysts 
and institutional shareholders were held  
during the year and meetings were also held 
with key institutional investors to discuss 
strategy, financial performance and 
investment activities. Slide presentations are 
made immediately available after the full year 
and half year results and are also available on 
the Company’s website to view and download.
All shareholders have the opportunity to  
meet any of the Directors of the Company 
should they so wish. Feedback from meetings 
with shareholders is provided to the Board  
so they are aware of any issues or concerns. 
Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as  
an occasion to communicate with all 
shareholders, including private investors,  
who are provided with the opportunity to 
question the Directors. 
At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged  
on each resolution will be made available,  
both at the meeting and subsequently on  
the Company’s website. Each substantially 
separate issue is presented as a separate 
resolution and the Chairmen of the  
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration  
Committees are available to answer  
questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers  
will be posted to shareholders more than  
20 working days before the AGM.
Financial reporting
The Directors have acknowledged, in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set  
out on page 88, their responsibility for 
preparing the financial statements of the 
Company and the Group. The Directors are 
responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts and they consider that the 
Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole 
are fair, balanced and understandable. The 
external auditor has included, in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report set out on pages 136 to 138 of 
the 2013 Annual Report Book 2, a statement 
about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the 
publication of unaudited quarterly Interim 
Management Statements and Half Year 
Results as required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority. These provide an explanation of 
material events and transactions that have 
taken place during the relevant period and 
their impact on the financial position of  
the Company and the Group, and a general 
description of the financial position and 
performance of the Company and the Group 
during the relevant period.
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance
In accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association, and to the extent permitted  
by the laws of England and Wales, the 
Directors are granted an indemnity from the 
Company in respect of those liabilities incurred 
as a result of their office. In respect of those 
matters for which the Directors may not be 
indemnified, the Company maintained a 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy 
throughout the year. It is anticipated this policy 
will be renewed. Neither the Company’s 
indemnity nor the insurance provides cover  
to the extent that the Director is proven to 
have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Internal controls
In accordance with the Code, the Board 
acknowledges its overall responsibility to 
shareholders to ensure that an adequate 
system of risk management and internal 
control is in place. This is essential for reliable 
financial reporting and also for the effective 
management of the Group.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the system has 
been delegated to the Audit Committee which 
assesses the quality of the control environment 
when monitoring and reviewing the integrity  
of the Group’s financial statements and any 
significant judgements that were made in  
their preparation.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT are designed to ensure significant risks, 
investment decisions and management  
issues are identified, considered and escalated 
as necessary at the earliest opportunity. 
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents 
are responsible for ensuring the communication 
of and compliance with Essentra’s internal 
controls across their respective divisions. 
Control of significant risks
The Board’s responsibility for risk and risk 
management in Essentra encompasses:
 > Determining the Company’s approach  
to risk
 > Setting and instilling the right culture 
throughout the Company
 > Identifying the risks inherent in the 
Company’s business model and strategy, 
including risks from external factors
 > Monitoring the Company’s exposure to risk 
and the key risks that could undermine its 
strategy, reputation or long-term viability
 > Providing an effective oversight of the risk 
management processes in the Company
 > Ensuring the Company has effective crisis 
management systems
A Group risk framework is in place which 
supports the Board in fulfilling these 
responsibilities and serves to reinforce  
the risk review processes embedded within  
the businesses. 
The Audit Commitee enhances the quality of 
the Board’s oversight of the risk management 
process within Essentra but does not 
determine the Company’s appetite and 
tolerance for risk. 
In continuing to enhance and improve  
the risk management activities within the 
Company, from January 2014 the Board 
endorsed the formation of a new Operational 
Risk Management Committee which will 
report to the Audit Committee through the 
Group Head of Assurance, and an Executive 
Risk Committee which will report to the Board 
through the Chief Executive. 
The respective risk committees, will meet on a  
regular basis during the year and report to the 
Board or Audit Committee as appropriate on 
the Company’s identification and mitigation  
of risk within the parameters established by 
the Board.
The Board is of the view that a rigorous 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating  
and managing significant risks faced by  
the Company was in place throughout  
2013 and up to the date of approval of the  
2013 Annual Report. This process has  
been reviewed by the Audit Committee  
and will be reviewed routinely to ensure  
that the system of internal control and risk 
management remains fit for purpose.
The risk appetite established by the Board 
provides clarity on those areas where the 
Board wishes to take little or no risk and  
those where the Board would be comfortable 
adopting a greater level of risk taking. It is 
intended that this assessment will be used to 
support the Board’s ongoing decision making 
and underpin the risk management processes 
across the Company. 
Risk appetite will change over time to  
reflect changes in the economic environment, 
strategy and performance of the Company 
and it is the intention of the Board to review 
this at least on an annual basis in conjunction 
with its strategic and financial planning 
processes.
The Company has an established process  
for the development of risk practices.  
Further to the setting of the risk appetite  
by the Board there is a more formal method  
of defining acceptable levels of risk within the 
organisation. The risk process has evolved  
and is validated through the preparation  
of risk registers which are used to assess risk 
tolerances and the registers are reviewed  
and discussed by senior management prior  
to being put forward to the Audit Committee 
or Board.
With the continued development of the Group 
Assurance function further controls have been 
introduced to improve effectiveness, reduce 
costs and support business performance. 
During 2013 a risk management technology 
platform was introduced which will enhance 
the reporting tools currently being used and 
will enable the Company to improve risk 
management, develop risk strategies into risk 
mitigation, and eliminate any lack of coverage. 
The platform allows real time reporting of risks 
from the operational businesses to the 
executive management.
Essentra’s internal controls are designed  
to safeguard the Company’s assets and  
to ensure the integrity and reliability of 
information used both within the businesses 
and for public announcements. The Board has 
overall responsibility for the Company’s system 
of internal control and risk management and  
for reviewing the effectiveness of this system. 
Such a system can only be designed to mitigate, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can therefore 
only provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement  
or loss.
The following procedures are in place which 
enable the Board to review the effectiveness  
of the system of internal control:
 > The Audit Committee meets regularly and 
reviews the effectiveness of the internal 
control environment of the Group
 > The Audit Committee is supported by the 
Group Assurance function which undertakes 
extensive internal audit responsibilities 
across the Group
 > Risk management reports are presented 
which detail an analysis of the key risks at  
a Group level, summarise developments 
potentially impacting the Group from a  
risk, governance or compliance perspective 
and propose actions for the Company in 
response to such developments 
 > The Board has the opportunity to review  
the internal control environment at local 
sites when Board meetings are held away 
from the Company’s head office
 > Every month each division submits detailed 
operating and financial reports covering all 
aspects of performance. These are reviewed 
within the Group’s central finance function 
and summary reports are communicated  
to the GMC and the Board
 > Certificates are required from the 
businesses to confirm compliance with  
the Group’s policies and procedures
 > Self-certification is required from all 
businesses and divisions at both the half 
year and year end to confirm compliance 
with Group financial policies and procedures
Policies and procedures, which are subject  
to ongoing review and updated as required  
in response to strategic, operational, business, 
legal or regulatory developments, with the 
approval of the Board or its respective 
Committees as appropriate, are communicated 
across the Group. Essentra’s internal controls 
60 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nomination Committee 2013 key activities
 > Reviewed the succession planning for the 
Board and senior executives and in doing so 
considered diversity, experience, knowledge 
and skills. Reviewed the composition and 
structure of the Company’s Board and  
the CommitteesReviewed the Group 
Conflict of Interests policy and register and 
was satisfied that there were no material 
issues of conflict
 > Reviewed and made recommendations  
to the Board in respect of the two  
Non-Executive Directors, Peter Hill  
and Lorraine Trainer
Considerations included the Board needing  
to comprise of the right blend of individuals 
whose skills and experience were gained  
in a diverse range of backgrounds. Above  
all the successful applicants needed to exhibit 
independence of mind, integrity and courage 
to challenge constructively when appropriate. 
An external resource, the Zygos Partnership, 
assessed the applicants and proposals to  
the Nomination Committee which were 
subsequently recommended to the Board.
There is no related party connection with the 
Zygos Partnership other than the work carried 
out on an arms length basis.
The Nomination Committee and the  
Board as a whole supports the spirit of the 
recommendations set out in the Lord Davies 
Report “Women on Boards” . Securing the right 
combination of skills, experience and expertise 
allows the Board to effectively lead the 
sustainable growth and success of the 
Company for the benefit of all stakeholders. 
The fundamental objective must be to ensure 
that the best people are appointed to do the 
best job for Essentra, taking into consideration 
other factors such as market and international 
experience and diversity of thought and 
background. Appointing people on merit 
without any form of discrimination is a key 
component of Essentra policies across all  
its international operations at all levels. 
Nomination Committee
Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris
 
Membership and attendance 
Jeff Harris Non-Executive  
Chairman
4 (4)
Paul Drechsler SI Non-Executive  
Director
 4 (4)
Peter Hill Non-Executive  
Director
1 (1) 
Terry Twigger Non-Executive  
Director
4 (4)
Lorraine  
Trainer
Non-Executive  
Director
1 (1)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number  
of meetings that could have been attended
The Company Secretary & General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Nomination 
Committee.
At the end of the year the Nomination 
Committee comprised Jeff Harris, who  
chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler,  
Peter Hill, Lorraine Trainer and Terry Twigger, 
the skills and experience of whom can be 
found on page 51 . The Chief Executive and 
Group Human Resources Director attended  
by invitation as appropriate. 
Lorraine Trainer and Peter Hill joined the 
Nomination Committee on 1 July 2013.  
Lars Emilson resigned from the Nomination 
Committee in February 2013.
The Nomination Committee meets as required 
and during 2013 it met four times.
The Nomination Committee is responsible  
for selecting and recommending candidates 
for appointment as Executive and  
Non-Executive Directors of the Company.  
In furtherance of these duties and when 
considering succession planning, the 
Nomination Committee looks at the balance, 
structure and composition of the Board and 
takes into account the future challenges and 
opportunities facing the Company. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT TERRY TWIGGER
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
Valuation of accounts receivable
The Audit Committee reviewed the 
management accounts of the business  
in which working capital management is  
a key metric and which show the receivable 
balance of each business. Any significant 
movement was challenged and considered, 
and confirmation sought that any older 
balances were properly provided against 
according to group policy. In addition the 
Audit Committee reviewed the twice yearly 
report of the external auditor, which had 
been previously discussed with the Group 
Finance Director, that sets out the gross 
balances of the businesses, together with 
any related provision against the carrying 
value. The Audit Committee reviewed the 
report of work to be done by the external 
auditor on trade receivables to confirm 
both existence and recoverability; it 
 also considered the appropriateness of 
provisions held against the carrying value  
of accounts receivables having regards  
to the age of creditworthiness of the 
customer. In addition, the Audit Committee 
ensured that adherence to the group 
accounting manual with respect to aged 
receivables was included in the scope of  
the Assurance function and reviewed the 
key issues from all internal reports during  
the year to assess conformity. These 
matters were also discussed with the Group 
Finance Director and the external auditor. 
As a result of the processes and reporting in 
place the Audit Committee is satisfied that 
management is giving its full attention to 
any outstanding issues. 
 
A summary progress report is presented at 
each Audit Committee and a semi-annual  
risk report is submitted, to correspond with  
the reporting of full and half year results.
financial experience, further details of which 
can be found on page 51 .
The Audit Committee supports the Board  
and confirmed that the external auditor’s 
independence was safeguarded, establishing 
formal and transparent arrangements for 
considering how it should apply the required 
financial reporting, internal control principles 
and risk management processes to the audit 
of the financial statements of the Company. 
The Audit Committee reports to the full Board 
on a regular basis, but no less frequently than 
at every Board meeting following a Committee 
meeting. There is an annual cycle of items that 
are to be considered by the Audit Committee. 
The timetable of these items is scheduled  
in accordance with the requirements of the 
annual audit cycle. The responsibilities of the 
Audit Committee are defined in its terms of 
reference, which are reviewed annually, copies 
of which are available at www.essentra.com. 
Audit Committee 2013 key activities
Financial statements and reports
 > Examined the 31 December 2012 Annual 
Report and Accounts and the 30 June 2013 
Half Year Report. This involved reviewing, 
challenging and approving the going 
concern basis of preparation, the 
accounting policies and disclosures,  
the financial reporting issues and the 
assumptions and judgements made
 > Reviewed in detail the key judgement of  
the Financial Statements and the levels  
of disclosure, and the following main issues  
were considered:
Audit Committee
Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger
 
Membership and attendance 
Terry Twigger Non-Executive  
Director
4 (4)
Paul Drechsler SI Non-Executive  
Director
4 (4)
Peter Hill Non-Executive  
Director
3 (3)
Lorraine 
Trainer
Non-Executive  
Director
3 (3) 
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number  
of meetings that could have been attended
The Company Secretary & General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Other attendees
The external auditor, Chairman of the Board, 
Group Finance Director and Group Head of 
Assurance attended meetings by invitation  
as appropriate. During the year, the Audit 
Committee met the external auditor, KPMG, 
and the Group Head of Assurance without  
the Executive Directors being present.
Lorraine Trainer and Peter Hill joined  
the Audit Committee on 1 July 2013.  
Lars Emilson resigned from the Audit 
Committee in February 2013. 
Governance
All the Committee members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors, and have financial 
and / or related business experience gained  
in senior positions in other large diverse 
organisations.
Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee since 2009 , and the Board  
is satisfied that Terry has recent and relevant 
62 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Tax contingencies
The Audit Committee reviewed the central  
tax provisions created during the year and  
the effective tax rate, together with their 
corresponding assumptions. During the year 
the Group Finance Director presented to the 
Audit Committee details of the Group’s 
long-term tax strategy. The Audit 
Committee questioned and challenged 
the Group Finance Director as to the 
Company’s appetite for risk in this area. 
Having considered the explanations and 
rationale provided by the Company, and 
taking this into consideration along with  
the conclusion of the external auditor,  
the Audit Committee concluded that, the 
contingencies were appropriate given the 
nature of the activity undertaken by the 
Group.
Valuation of warranties and  
restructuring provisions
The Audit Committee reviewed and received 
reports from the external auditor outlining 
the assumptions made for the recording  
of provisions at the year end, specifically  
in relation to warranties and restructuring 
provisions. The Audit Committee reviewed 
the management accounts, the bases of 
calculation and also the information and 
explanations provided by the Group Finance 
Director to value these provisions, and 
evaluated the report and concluded that 
they were satisfied with the assumptions 
made and the judgements applied. This 
area is a prime source of audit focus, and 
accordingly the external auditor provided 
detailed reporting to the Audit Committee 
and addressed the issue at the planning 
stage of the external audit plan.
Exceptional items
The Audit Committee considered the value 
and treatment of the exceptional items,  
and the assumptions underlying this value.  
The Company provided detailed analysis  
as to the reasons why these costs should  
be classified as exceptional and that they 
related to acquisitions, integrations and 
non-deductible restructuring costs and  
also rebranding costs, further details of  
which can be found in note 3 on page 110  
of the Annual Report Book 2 of the financial 
statements. The Audit Committee 
challenged the appropriateness of this 
classification to ensure the costs were truly 
exceptional and could not be considered  
to be recurring. The Audit Committee also 
challenged the Group Finance Director as  
to whether the amounts involved were 
sufficiently material to be considered exceptional. 
T aking into consideration the accounting policy 
of the Company, the explanations given by 
the Group Finance Director and the views 
and conclusion of the external auditor, the 
Audit Committee remains comfortable with 
classification of these exceptional costs.
 > Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls and disclosures made in 
the Annual Report and financial statements
 > Considered the Financial Reporting Council 
(“FRC”) letter, that was received during 2013 
as part of the FRC’s cyclical reviews of FTSE 
350 companies. During this process the 
Audit Committee discussed the key areas 
raised by the FRC in their letter. The Audit 
Committee reviewed management’s 
response to those areas and determined 
that the suggested agreement to enhance 
certain minor disclosures was appropriate  
in the current year financial statements.  
The review has subsequently been closed  
by the FRC 
Risk management and internal audit
 > Reviewed and considered reports from  
the Group Head of Assurance including  
any issues relating to internal controls  
and the status of actions taken in  
response to any identified concerns
 > Oversaw the development of risk  
management practices through the internal 
Assurance function
 > Assessed the areas of focus for internal 
audit and the adequacy of coverage,  
having regard to the potential risks 
impacting the Group
 > Reviewed the output from the Group 
processes used to identify, evaluate and 
mitigate risk, and considered the key risks 
arising from the Company’s activities and 
the response of senior management to 
those challenges
 > Assessed the Company’s response to cyber 
security and information technology risks
 > Oversaw compliance activities and  
monitored the impact of the business  
and regulatory environment
 > Reviewed the adequacy of the Company’s 
resources in relation to financial reporting, 
tax and treasury management requirements
 > Reported on any Right to Speak activities 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 63 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE External auditor and non-audit work
 > Reviewed and agreed the scope of the  
audit work to be undertaken by the external 
auditor
 > Agreed the terms of engagement and fees 
to be paid to the external auditor for their 
audit of the 31 December 2013 financial 
statements
 > Received a report from the external  
auditor on its independence and objectivity 
including quality control procedures
 > Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, 
resources and independence of the external 
auditor  and assessed their performance 
 > Reviewed proposals for the engagement of 
the external auditor for non-audit services 
and confirmed that their independence was 
safeguarded 
The internal procedures implemented by  
the Company to ensure the Board maintains 
overall control for all material strategic, 
financial, operational and compliance matters 
affecting the Company are included within  
the internal control section of this Report.  
The Board establishes the standards and 
values that govern the Group and agrees  
the structure of the Group’s internal controls. 
Engagement of the external auditor
Although the external auditor has been in 
place since the Company’s public listing in 
2005, the external auditor periodically changes 
the audit partners at a Group, divisional and 
country level in accordance with professional 
and regulatory standards in order to protect 
independence and objectivity and provide 
fresh challenge to the business. Such changes 
are carefully planned to ensure that the Group 
benefits from staff continuity without incurring 
undue risk of inefficiency.
The external auditor provides the Audit 
Committee with relevant reports, reviews, 
information and advice throughout the year  
as set out in the terms of their engagement. 
Their performance was formally assessed by 
the Audit Committee in conjunction with the 
executive management team, and the Audit 
Committee is satisfied that they continue  
to be effective and provide appropriate 
independent challenge of the Company’s 
management. In making its assessment of  
the external auditor, the Audit Committee had 
due regard to their expertise, resourcing and 
independence. 
As such, the Audit Committee has not 
considered it necessary this year to conduct  
a tender process for the appointment of  
its external auditor. Having carried out the 
review described above and having satisfied 
itself that the external auditor remains 
independent and effective, the Audit Committee 
has recommended to the external Board that 
the external auditor be reappointed at the  
2014 AGM.
The Audit Committee is mindful of ongoing 
debate about the operation of the audit 
market, audit tenure and the longevity of  
the audit firm relationships with the companies 
they audit. KPMG Audit Plc has been in place 
as the Company’s external auditor since 
inception of the business in 2005, and it is the 
current intention to implement the transitional 
arrangements proposed by the UK Competition 
Commission and initiate an audit re-tender no 
later than 2017 . The Audit Committee will keep 
this re-tendering time frame under review and 
will use its regular reviews of external auditor 
effectiveness to assess whether an earlier date 
for a re-tender would be appropriate.
There are no contractual obligations  
restricting the Audit Committee’s  
choice of external auditor.
The Audit Committee takes responsibility for 
reviewing the Group’s internal controls through 
its engagement with the Group Assurance 
function. The Group Head of Assurance is 
responsible for providing assurances as to  
the adequacy of internal controls function 
throughout the Company and attends each 
Audit Committee meeting. At the start of the 
year the Audit Committee agrees the annual 
internal audit plan, which is drawn up on a 
risk-based approach across a broad section  
of the Company’s activities. Any significant 
findings from internal control audits 
undertaken during the year have been 
appropriately investigated and necessary 
action taken to address and rectify any 
weaknesses that may have been identified. 
With the strong growth and acquisition 
activity undertaken by the Company and the 
expansion into new markets and geographies, 
the Audit Committee has sought assurance 
that the internal controls, together with risk 
management and compliance activities, have 
continued to develop in accordance with all 
relevant requirements and that appropriate 
resource is being made available to respond  
to those demands. 
During the year the Audit Committee has 
overseen a comprehensive external review  
of the integrity of the Company’s information 
technology systems, having regard to 
identified cyber security risks and the 
importance of the protection of the proprietary 
information of the Company and its 
customers. As a result of that review, and 
under the supervision of the Audit Committee, 
the Company is centralising the management 
of its information technology systems under 
new resource and adopting a variety of policy 
and process improvements to preserve the 
integrity of those business critical systems. 
64 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED In addition to the annual review of the service 
provided by the external auditor, the Audit 
Committee gives consideration from time to 
time to whether the audit might be provided 
more efficiently or effectively by an alternative 
audit firm, and the Company may put the 
audit out to tender at any time if the Audit 
Committee deems it appropriate.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the 
independence of the external auditor  
the Audit Committee reviewed:
 > Changes in senior audit personnel  
in the audit plan for the current year
 > A report from the external auditor 
describing their arrangements to identify, 
report and manage any conflicts of interest
 > The extent of non-audit services provided  
by the external auditor
To assess the effectiveness of the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:
 > The external auditor’s fulfilment of the 
agreed audit plan and variations from it, 
and reports highlighting the major issues 
that arose during the course of the audit
 > Feedback from the businesses evaluating 
the performance of each audit team
The external auditor is engaged to express  
an opinion on the financial statements.  
The audit includes the review and test of the 
system of internal financial control and the 
data contained in the financial statements  
to the extent necessary for expressing an  
audit opinion on the truth and fairness of  
the financial statements.
Non-audit services policy
The importance of maintaining the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor, by 
minimising its involvement in projects of a non-
audit nature, is of fundamental concern to the 
Audit Committee. It is, however, also 
acknowledged that, due to its detailed 
understanding of the Company’s business,  
it may sometimes be necessary to involve  
the external auditor in non-audit related  
work, principally comprising further assurance 
services relating to due diligence and other 
duties carried out in respect of acquisitions, 
disposals and tax services. The Audit 
Committee has adopted a policy in relation 
to the engagement of the external auditor  
to supply non-audit services, with defined 
parameters and approval requirements in 
relation to any such appointments.
The majority of the non-audit work carried  
out by the external auditor during the year 
relates to tax compliance services and 
acquisition-related activity in overseas 
jurisdictions, and the Audit Committee 
believes that given their experience the 
external auditor was the most appropriate 
suppliers of this work.
Details of the fees paid to KPMG during the 
year can be found in note 3 to the financial 
statements on page 110 of the 2013 Annual 
Report Book 2.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 65 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE PAUL DRECHSLER
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
DEAR SHAREHOLDER,
As Chairman of the Essentra Remuneration 
Committee I am pleased to present the  
2013 Remuneration Report to shareholders.
As required by law, at the 2014 AGM 
shareholders are being asked to vote 
separately on our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy and our Annual Report on Remuneration, 
set out in the next two sections of this report. 
We have invited comments on a draft of the 
policy statement from our shareholders in 
advance and made changes as appropriate. 
There have been no material changes to  
the policy as presented last year.
If the Policy Report is approved at the 2014 
AGM it will take effect from that date.
The remuneration policy continues to  
be focused on aligning the interests of 
executives with those of our shareholders,  
and is structured to enable the Group to 
attract, motivate and retain the talent 
required to deliver its Vision 2015 strategy. 
When considering the senior executive 
remuneration structure, the Committee  
also takes into account the pay and conditions 
of all UK employees or of such other jurisdiction 
within which the Executive Directors operate  
or reside.
The year to 31 December 2013 saw continued 
strong growth in financial and operational 
performance, as outlined in the Strategic 
Report. As a result of this strong performance 
in relation to balanced growth, working capital 
and personal objectives, the Committee 
determined that the annual bonus would  
be 100% of the maximum for both the  
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director. 
In addition, the long-term incentive award 
granted in April 2011 to Colin Day was subject 
to a performance period which ended on  
31 December 2013. As a result of Earnings  
Per Share growth of 44% and Total Shareholder 
Return performance which ranked above the 
upper quartile compared to the comparator 
group, the award will vest in full in April 2014. 
More details are provided on page 79 . The 
Committee is comfortable that the level of 
reward adequately reflects the corporate and 
personal performance over the period.
Given the large number of employees who are 
currently based in the US, a need for a similar 
Sharesave scheme as is already available in the 
UK has been highlighted, and it is hoped that 
introducing such a scheme will encourage even 
further employee share ownership. Following a 
review with our advisers, the Company 
proposes that such a US Sharesave Scheme is 
introduced in 2014. This scheme requires 
shareholder approval, which will  
be sought at the 2014 AGM.
The existing UK Sharesave Scheme is nine  
years old and will need to be renewed by 
shareholders during 2015. Consequently it is 
proposed that the UK Sharesave is submitted 
for renewed approval at the 2014 AGM. The  
UK Sharesave Scheme rules remain the same 
except they have been updated to reflect 
changes in legislation including the increase  
in monthly savings to £500.
I hope that you will find this report of the 
Committee’s work comprehensive and 
understandable, and that you will join me  
in supporting the two resolutions in respect  
of this years’ Report of the Remuneration 
Committee at the Company’s AGM in 2014. 
With a nine-year tenure as Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee, by May 2014  
I will no longer be viewed as independent  
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code guidelines, and thereafter  
I will stand down after the AGM. Lorraine 
Trainer will be my successor as Chairman  
of the Committee. Lorraine has extensive 
experience of remuneration matters both  
at an operational level and as a previous 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
elsewhere. I will be continuing as a Non-
Executive Director of the Board and will be 
available if requested to assist the Committee 
in the performance of its future responsibilities.
I would like to take this opportunity to  
thank Alan Tidy, the Group Human Resources 
Director, who will retire in April of this year  
for all of his help and support in advising  
me and the Committee since its formation  
in 2005.
As a Committee, we wish to maintain an 
ongoing constructive dialogue with investors 
and relevant representative bodies. This means 
we will consult with our major shareholders on 
any material changes to the remuneration 
policy, and in the meantime welcome any 
feedback you may have.
 
PAUL DRECHSLER
Remuneration Committee Chairman
20 February 2014
This Report to shareholders for the year  
ended 31 December 2013 sets out the policies 
under which the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors are remunerated and incorporates 
tables of information showing details of  
the remuneration and share interests of  
the Directors. 
 
The Remuneration Committee’s Report, 
including the Policy Report and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration, is intended to be  
in full compliance with the requirements of 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups Regulations 2013, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012 issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council and the Listing Rules.
66 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Remuneration Committee
Committee Chairman: Paul Drechsler
Membership and attendance
Paul Drechsler 3 (3)
Peter Hill 2 (2)
Terry Twigger 3 (3)
Lorraine Trainer 2 (2)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number  
of meetings that could have been attended
The Company Secretary & General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Remuneration 
Committee.
The Remuneration Committee determines  
and recommends to the Board the framework 
for the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and the Chairman of the Board. The Chief 
Executive’s remuneration proposals for the 
members of the Group Management 
Committee are reviewed by the Remuneration 
Committee, and recommendations as regards 
those proposals are made to the Board. 
The Remuneration Committee also takes note 
of the remuneration policy as detailed by the 
Chief Executive in respect of other levels of 
management in the Company, and makes 
such recommendations to the Chief Executive 
as the Remuneration Committee deems 
appropriate. The Remuneration Committee 
has regard to the proposed remuneration 
policy for other management and employees 
across the Group, when determining 
recommendations on remuneration for the 
Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the  
risks surrounding the Company’s existing 
remuneration policies on an annual basis  
and has determined that are no significant 
concerns with the structure or operation  
of the remuneration policy. 
The remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and the Chairman of the Board is the 
responsibility of the Remuneration Committee, 
and the remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors is the responsibility of the Board as  
a whole. No Director is involved in determining 
or voting on their own remuneration.
In determining the policy for the Executive 
Directors, the Remuneration Committee’s 
objective is to ensure that those individuals  
are provided with appropriate incentives to 
encourage enhanced performance and are,  
in a fair and responsible manner having regard  
to the long-term performance of the 
Company, rewarded for their individual 
contributions to the success of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee’s main 
responsibilities are to:
 > Develop the Group’s remuneration policy  
for the Executive Directors and other senior 
executives, covering basic salary, bonus, 
long-term incentives, retirement provisions 
and other benefits
 > Strike an appropriate balance between  
(i) the fixed and variable; and (ii) the cash 
and equity-related components of total 
remuneration packages
 > Review and determine the terms of 
employment and remuneration of the 
individual Executive Directors, including  
any specific retirement or severance terms
 > Determine the remuneration of the 
Chairman of the Board
 > Establish and review the operation of  
any employee share plans, including the 
granting of awards, the setting and testing 
of performance conditions and exercising  
of any awards under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
 > Select, appoint and determine the terms  
of reference for independent consultants  
to advise the Remuneration Committee  
on remuneration matters
The Remuneration Committee’s key  
objectives are to:
 > Align senior executives’ remuneration with 
the interests of the shareholders and other 
stakeholders, particularly in the design of 
the performance-related elements of their 
remuneration packages
 > Establish a competitive remuneration 
package attracting, retaining and 
motivating high quality management
 > Promote the achievement of both the 
Company’s annual and longer-term 
strategic objectives by providing a 
remuneration package that contains 
appropriately motivating targets
 
Alignment with Group strategy
The Board as a whole establishes the 
remuneration policy and considers the 
alignment of Group performance and  
the remuneration of its senior executives, 
including the Executive Directors, to be of  
the utmost importance. It believes that senior 
management should be highly rewarded  
(on a market-competitive basis) for the 
delivery of stretching goals but should also 
receive reduced rewards when the business 
does not perform to expectations. To achieve 
this alignment, Essentra’s remuneration 
package is leveraged with a high percentage  
of pay “at risk” against the achievement of 
stretching goals. Furthermore, one half of any 
bonus for Executive Directors is delivered in the 
form of Essentra shares which will vest after a 
three year period. These requirements closely 
tie the long-term value of executive remuneration 
to the long-term interests of shareholders.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 67
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT As set out on pages 18 to 21 Essentra’s  
Vision 2015 strategy seeks to create  
sustainable shareholder value through  
the delivery of balanced, profitable growth  
in its existing and future opportunity markets 
and technologies. The strategy also calls for 
strong conversion of profit into cash. Those 
priorities are reflected closely in the design  
of the remuneration packages, which seek  
to drive their delivery through a combination  
of financially driven targets, key personal 
objectives based around operational issues  
and relative shareholder return.
The Remuneration Committee considers  
all elements of the remuneration package  
as a whole. It looks to ensure that an 
appropriate balance is maintained between 
them so that the need for both short-term 
success and long-term sustainable growth is 
recognised. The Remuneration Committee  
also ensures that non-financial business 
measures and individual objectives reflect 
adequately the Company’s environmental, 
social and governance responsibilities.
The remuneration structure which was 
implemented during 2012 continues to  
apply. This structure retains the principles  
of increased share ownership with more 
stretching targets linking higher potential 
incentive reward and Total Shareholder  
Return (“TSR”), in order to secure alignment 
with shareholder interests.
The structure:
 > Reflects the Company’s Vision 2015 
strategic objectives
 > Ensures that incentive plan metrics  
and targets provide executive reward  
for delivering the business objectives  
but do not encourage any unnecessary  
risk taking 
 > Rewards the delivery of performance 
annually, across a broad foundation of 
business fundamentals which should lead  
to growth in Earnings Per Share (“EPS”),  
a key metric for shareholders
 > Focuses rewards so they are delivered if  
the Company delivers financial growth  
in line with stretching targets
 > Creates a more stretching financial target 
for incentives that reflect a step change  
in business performance
 > Rewards executives if they deliver 
outstanding performance which  
creates significant and sustainable 
shareholder value
 > Provides no additional reward for the same 
financial performance
 > Requires Essentra executives to hold 
significant shareholdings in the Company
 > Rewards executives for organic and 
acquisition growth, and adjusts targets  
for mergers and acquisitions
 > Maintains clawback provisions to safeguard 
shareholders’ interests
Summary of components of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee structures 
senior executive remuneration in two distinct 
parts: (i) fixed remuneration of basic salary, 
pension and benefits; and (ii) variable 
performance-related remuneration in the form 
of cash bonuses, deferred share bonuses and 
long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is 
structured so that the variable performance-
related pay element forms a significant portion 
of each package. The majority of total 
remuneration at the maximum performance 
level will derive from the Company’s long-term 
incentive arrangements, which are strongly 
aligned to Essentra’s strategic objective to 
secure long-term shareholder value.
The table opposite should be read in conjunction 
with the recruitment policy.
68 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance  
measures
Basic salary
To reflect the particular skills and 
experience of an individual and to 
provide a competitive basic salary 
compared with similar roles in 
similar companies
Reviewed annually (effective  
from 1 January) . Pay is determined 
by reference to a rounded 
assessment which considers:
 > The skills and performance  
of the individual
 > Their roles and responsibilities
 > External market data
The Remuneration Committee 
also takes into account pay and 
employment conditions for UK 
employees of the Company when 
considering increases to basic 
salary levels
Current salaries are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration
Salary increase percentages  
for Executive Directors will not 
normally exceed those awarded  
to other employees of the Company 
within the jurisdiction in which the 
Director resides and works
If there is a significant increase in 
responsibility, change in scope of 
a role, or size of the business then 
basic salary may increase by more 
than this level. This may be relevant 
for new appointments, whose 
basic salary is moved towards  
the desired market rate as their 
experience and performance in 
the role develops
Not applicable
Total annual bonus
To incentivise the delivery of Group 
performance-related objectives, 
and to aid retention and to align 
Directors’ interests with those of 
the Company’s shareholders
One half of the total annual bonus 
is paid in cash shortly after the 
annual results announcement
The other half is deferred into 
shares which will normally vest 
after three years, subject to 
continued service 
Performance is assessed against 
measures and targets which  
are established on an annual basis 
by the Remuneration Committee. 
As performance increases so does 
the percentage payable up to  
the maximum 
The deferred bonus is subject to 
clawback for reasons of material 
misstatement or mispresentation 
of performance 
Chief Executive  
– 150% of basic salary
Group Finance Director 
– 125% of basic salary
The majority of the bonus 
opportunity is calculated by 
reference to a matrix of financial 
measures which at present 
include revenue and operating 
profit growth.  
A minority of the bonus is 
currently subject to targets on 
working capital management  
and personal objectives
The Remuneration Committee  
will review performance 
measures, weightings and targets 
on an annual basis to ensure they 
are aligned with the business 
strategy at the time
The performance measures and 
weightings for the 2014 annual 
bonus are set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration on  
page 77
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 69 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance  
measures
Long-Term Incentive Plan B 
(“LTIP B”)
To drive the long-term delivery  
of the Group’s objectives, aid 
retention and to align Directors’ 
interests with those of  
the Company’s shareholders
An annual award of  
performance share awards  
with a three-year performance 
and vesting period
Awards are subject to clawback 
for reasons of material 
misstatement, miscalculation or 
misconduct which results in the 
participant leaving the Company
Chief Executive – annual award  
of performance share awards 
capped at 300% of basic salary
Group Finance Director –  
annual award of performance 
share awards capped at  
200% of basic salary
Vesting will be subject to  
at least two performance 
conditions as determined by  
the Remuneration Committee  
on an annual basis 
The performance conditions  
will at least consist of relative  
TSR performance and adjusted 
EPS performance, measured over  
a three-year period
The Remuneration Committee 
may adjust the weightings of  
the performance conditions to 
include a third performance 
measure which is aligned to  
the corporate strategy
25% of each element vests at 
threshold performance, rising  
on a straightline basis for 
performance up to the maximum 
level for full payment 
All Employee Plans
To create alignment of  
employees’ interests with  
those of shareholders and  
an awareness of the  
Company’s share price 
performance
Under the UK Sharesave, 
employees (including Executive 
Directors) are invited to enter a 
savings contract of three years  
or five years, whereby the 
proceeds can be used towards the 
exercise of an option granted at 
the time they participate. The 
option price can be up to a 20% 
discount on the date of grant 
share price
An equivalent US Plan is to  
be set up during 2014 (subject  
to shareholder approval).  
It is currently intended that  
the US Plan will be operated  
in a similar manner to the  
UK Sharesave, although with  
a two-year savings contract  
and an option price of up to  
a 15% discount
For the UK plan, shares worth  
up to the value of the savings  
a Director agrees to make over  
the saving period at the previously 
agreed option price. The savings 
amount is subject to the HMRC 
limit, currently £250 per month  
for UK operations, but rising  
to £500 for invitations after  
April 2014
The US Plan, if approved,  
will be limited to the monthly 
dollar equivalent of the UK 
Sharesave plan
No performance conditions apply 
to All Employee Plans
Pension 
To provide cost-effective  
long-term benefits  
comparable with similar  
roles in similar companies
A contribution to a defined 
contribution plan or paid  
as a cash supplement
Chief Executive – 25%  
of basic salary
Group Finance Director – 20%  
of basic salary
Not applicable
70 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance  
measures
Other benefits
To provide cost-effective  
benefits comparable  
with similar roles in  
similar companies
Other benefits comprise medical 
expenses, life insurance, and  
a car and fuel allowance. 
The Remuneration Committee 
may vary these benefits from time 
to time to suit business needs, but 
they will be provided on broadly 
similar terms to those offered to  
other Group employees
Car, fuel and / or car allowance  
of £1,500 annually 
Private medical insurance with 
family level cover
Life insurance cover of four  
times basic salary
The value of benefits may vary 
from time to time depending  
on service provider costs
Not applicable
Shareholding requirement
To align the interests of  
Executive Directors and 
shareholders, encourage  
a focus on long-term  
performance and risk 
management
These shareholding guidelines are 
to be built up over five years from 
date of appointment
The Remuneration Committee  
will review progress towards  
the guidelines on an annual basis, 
and has the discretion to adjust 
the guidelines in what it feels are 
appropriate circumstances
Only shares beneficially  
owned are taken into account  
in assessing compliance with  
these guidelines
The guideline minimum level  
is 300% of basic salary for the 
Chief Executive and 200% of  
basic salary for the Group  
Finance Director 
Non-Executive Directors are 
encouraged to hold a minimum  
of 7 ,500 shares 
Not applicable
Non-Executive Directors
To attract high-calibre non-
executive directors with the 
relevant experience and skills
The fee for the Chairman of  
the Board is determined by  
the Remuneration Committee, 
while the fees for Non-Executive 
Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole 
A basic fee is payable to all 
Non-Executive Directors with 
supplementary fees for those  
with additional responsibilities, 
such as acting as Senior 
Independent Director or chairing  
a Board Committee
Fees are reviewed on an  
annual basis with reference  
to market levels in companies  
of a comparable size and 
complexity, and taking account  
of the responsibilities and time 
commitment of each role
Fees for the current year are 
stated in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration
Fee increases may be greater than 
those of the wider workforce in 
any particular year as they reflect 
changes to responsibilities and 
time commitments and the 
periodic nature of any increases 
Not applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 71 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Colin Day
0 £000 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
Total ﬁxed pay Actual bonus (cash) Deferred shares Long-term share awards
Below target
Target
Maximum
Matthew Gregory
Below target
Target
Maximum
100
46
22
13 13
13
22
14 14 26
52
52
100
52 13 13 22
14
27
14
14 45
28 44
22.9 XX.X
Remuneration Committee discretion  
when operating the annual bonus and 
long-term incentives
The Remuneration Committee will operate  
the annual bonus plan and long-term incentive 
plans according to their respective rules and 
will be consistent with normal market practice, 
the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where 
relevant, including flexibility in a number  
of regards. These include:
 > When to make awards and payments
 > How to determine the size of an award  
or a payment, or when and how much  
of an award should vest
 > Who receives an award or payment
 > How to deal with a change of control  
or restructuring of the Group
 > Whether a participant is a good / bad 
leaver for incentive plan purposes, and 
whether and what proportion of awards 
vest and timing of delivery
 > How and whether an award may be 
adjusted in certain circumstances 
(eg rights issues, corporate restructuring,  
events and special dividends)
 > What the weighting, measures and targets 
should be for the annual bonus plan and 
LTIP B from year to year
The Remuneration Committee also retains  
the ability within the policy to adjust the 
targets and / or set different measures and  
alter weightings for the annual bonus plan,  
and to adjust targets for the LTIP B if events 
occur which cause it to determine that the 
conditions are unable to fulfil their original 
intended purpose.
Existing awards
The Remuneration Committee intends to 
honour any commitments entered into with 
current or former Directors on their original 
terms, including outstanding LTIP B and 
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan awards 
which have been disclosed in previous 
remuneration reports. Any of these payments 
to former Directors will be set out in the Report  
of the Remuneration Committee as and  
when they occur.
Choice of performance measures and 
approach to target setting
The Remuneration Committee sets 
performance metrics under both the annual 
bonus plan and LTIP B which are clearly  
aligned to the Group’s strategy and are part  
of its key performance indicators.
For the annual bonus plan there is a strong 
focus on financial metrics which form part  
of the Company’s key performance indicators 
and are aligned with the Company’s objective 
of achieving growth in revenue and profit while 
ensuring working capital management 
remains tightly controlled. Any personal 
performance measures are directly linked  
to strategic objectives. 
Remuneration mix 
The graph below demonstrates the potential 
remuneration mix at below target, target and 
maximum for each of the Executive Directors. 
Assumptions: 
•	 Bonus 	 maximum 	 of 	 1 5 0 % 	 of 	 salar y 	 f or 	 Colin 	 Day 	 and 	 1 2 5 % 	 of 	 sa lar y 	 f or 	 Mat t he w 	 Gr egor y
•	 Ass u mes 	 an 	 L T I P 	 B 	 aw ar d 	 of 	 3 00 % 	 of 	 salar y 	 f or 	 Colin 	 Day 	 and 	 2 00 % 	 of 	 salar y 	 f or 	 Mat t he w 	 Gr egor y
•	 T ar get 	 – 	 5 0 % 	 of 	 annual 	 bonus 	 maximum 	 paid 	 and 	 2 5 % 	 of 	 L T I P 	 B 	 aw ar d 	 v ests
•	 Maximum 	 – 	 1 00 % 	 of 	 annual 	 bonus 	 maximum 	 paid 	 and 	 1 00 % 	 of 	 L T I P 	 B 	 aw ar d 	 v ests
•	 No 	 shar e 	 price 	 gr o w t h 	 or 	 dividend 	 ac crual 	 c ons ider ed
•	 Shar esav e 	 aw ar ds 	 hav e 	 been 	 ignor ed	
Total remuneration (%)
72 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED The precise metrics chosen and weighting 
ascribed to each measure may vary, as 
detailed in the policy on pages 69 to 71 ,  
in line with the Company’s strategy. 
For the LTIP B, performance targets are set 
based on a range of measures which will at 
least consist of relative TSR, which provides  
a clear alignment between the interests of 
shareholders and executives, and also 
challenging EPS growth targets that support 
the long-term levels of earnings growth 
targeted by the Company. The Remuneration 
Committee may choose to alter the 
weightings of each measure or introduce 
further measures which are aligned to 
long-term strategic objectives at that time. 
Targets under both the annual bonus plan  
and LTIP B are set based on sliding scales, 
which only provide a modest reward for 
delivering threshold performance, with 
maximum payout requiring significant 
out-performance. Financial targets are  
set based on a combination of the internal 
budgeting process and external market 
forecasts for the Company. 
New appointments
 > Basic salary – will be set based on relevant 
market data, experience and skills of the 
individual, internal relativities across the 
Company and the individual’s current basic 
salary. Where new appointees have initial 
basic salaries set below market rates, any 
shortfall will be managed with phased 
increases (which may be greater than  
those offered to the wider workforce) over  
a period of two to three years, subject to 
their development in the role
 > Pension – a contribution to a defined 
contribution plan or a cash supplement 
may be offered with the relevant maximum 
not exceeding that for the current Chief 
Executive as a percentage of salary
 > Other benefits – as provided to current 
Executive Directors. Where necessary the 
Remuneration Committee may approve  
the payment of relocation expenses to 
facilitate recruitment, and flexibility is 
retained for the Company to pay for  
legal fees and other costs incurred by the 
individual in relation to their appointment
 > Bonus – the annual bonus described in  
the Policy Table on pages 69 to 71 will apply  
to a new appointee with the relevant 
maximum not exceeding that for the 
current Chief Executive; and, in the first 
year, being pro-rated to reflect the 
proportion of employment during the  
year. The Remuneration Committee may 
set different performance measures and 
targets to those of the other Executive 
Directors, depending on the timing and 
scope of any appointment. In order to 
facilitate the recruitment the Remuneration 
Committee may deem it necessary to 
guarantee a level of bonus, in compensation 
for any bonus forgone at their current 
employer. This guarantee will be limited  
to the bonus in relation to the first year  
of employment
 > Share incentives – in normal circumstances 
new appointees will be granted awards 
under the LTIP B on the same terms as other 
Executive Directors but not exceeding the 
limit for the current Chief Executive. An 
award may be made shortly following  
a new appointment
 > Buy-out awards – to potentially facilitate 
the recruitment through the buy-out of 
existing awards from their current employer, 
the Remuneration Committee will retain 
the ability to use incentive arrangements. 
Such arrangements will not be more 
favourable to the individual with respect  
to vesting periods, expected value and 
whether there are performance metrics  
as awards being forfeited from their current 
employer’s plans. Buy-out awards will be 
made using existing incentive arrangements 
where possible, but it may be necessary to 
use the exemption under Listing Rule 9.4.2. 
Shareholders will be informed of any such 
payments at the time of appointment 
 > In the case of internal appointments,  
any variable pay element awarded in 
respect of the prior role would normally  
be allowed to pay out according to its 
terms, adjusted as relevant, to take into 
account the appointment 
 > For external and new internal appointments, 
the Remuneration Committee may set 
lower share ownership guidelines, or permit 
a longer period for them to be met
Service contracts and exit payments
Service contracts normally continue until the 
Director’s agreed retirement date or such other 
date as the parties agree.
 > The policy for executive service contracts is 
that notice periods will normally not exceed 
12 months. Colin Day has a service contract 
dated 1 April 2011 and Matthew Gregory has 
a service contract dated 7 September 2012, 
both with a notice period of 12 months  
from either party. The service contracts  
for the Executive Directors are available  
for inspection by shareholders at each  
AGM and during normal business hours  
at the Company’s registered office
 > The Remuneration Committee’s policy in 
relation to termination of service contracts 
is to apply an appropriate level of mitigation, 
having regard to all of the circumstances of 
the individual, the termination of employment, 
and to any legal advice received. The 
Company has the right to make a payment 
in lieu of notice (such payment being made 
based on salary and at the Remuneration 
Committee’s discretion as to the value of 
benefits), and any such payment may be 
made in monthly instalments at the 
Company’s discretion, with a requirement 
for the individual to make reasonable 
endeavours to find alternative employment 
and may be reduced to take into account 
any sums earned during the payment 
period by way of employment elsewhere
 > There are no enhanced provisions on  
a change of control
 > In certain circumstances, such as gross 
misconduct, the Company may terminate 
employment immediately without notice  
or payment 
 > In addition, any statutory entitlements or 
payments to settle or compromise claims  
in connection with a termination would  
be made as necessary
 > The service contract for any new appointment 
would be on a similar basis to that 
described above
 > The payment of any annual bonus will  
be at the Remuneration Committee’s 
discretion, based on the individual 
circumstances and would be pro-rated  
for the period of service and subject  
to performance achievements
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 73 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Differences in remuneration policy 
between Executive Directors and  
other employees
The Remuneration Committee is kept  
informed of pay and employment conditions  
in the wider Group and this is factored into 
deliberations when setting the remuneration 
policy for Executive Directors. The Group-wide 
salary increase budget and the proposed 
increase for UK based employees, or employees 
of such other jurisdiction within which the 
Executive Directors operate or reside, is 
considered by the Remuneration Committee 
when determining any basic salary increase  
for Executive Directors. 
As stated previously, the overall remuneration 
package for Executive Directors is structured  
so that the variable performance-related  
pay element forms a more significant portion 
compared to pay for other employees.  
This policy is to ensure there is a clear link 
between the individual and corporate 
performance achieved, the value this creates 
for shareholders and the overall reward to 
Executive Directors. The weighting of variable 
pay will vary throughout the Group based  
on the seniority of the individual, the role and 
specific responsibilities. Whilst tailored annual 
bonuses are offered to a large number of 
employees, long-term incentives are targeted 
at more senior levels of management where 
they have the most influence on overall  
value creation. 
How the views of employees are taken  
into account
The Company does not actively consult  
with employees on matters of executive 
remuneration. Given the diverse geographies 
and pay cultures in which the Group operates, 
the Remuneration Committee believes  
any consultation is unlikely to produce  
relevant or material feedback. 
How the views of shareholders are taken 
into account
The Remuneration Committee has consulted 
with major shareholders and investor bodies in 
the past when material changes to the policy 
have been proposed, and this approach will 
continue in the future with the overall aim to 
maintain an open and transparent dialogue. 
 > Under the rules of the LTIP B, outstanding 
awards may vest if a participant leaves for 
specified reasons, including injury, disability, 
ill health, death, retirement with the 
Company’s agreement, redundancy, or  
the business or company in which the 
participant is employed ceasing to be  
part of the Group or on a change of control.  
In these circumstances a participant’s 
award vests on an appropriate time pro 
rata basis (unless the Remuneration 
Committee decides it is inappropriate  
to do so on a change of control only), 
subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance criteria at the normal vesting 
date with the balance of the award lapsing. 
The Remuneration Committee has discretion 
to determine that the performance period 
should end on the date of cessation of 
employment if it feels this is appropriate.  
If, however, the termination of employment 
is not for one of the specified reasons, and 
the Remuneration Committee does not 
exercise its discretion to allow an award to 
vest a participant’s award lapses in full on 
date of cessation 
 > The Deferred Annual Share Bonus  
awards (“DASB”) may vest if a participant 
leaves for specified reasons including  
death, the business or company in which 
the participant is employed ceasing to be 
part of the Group, retirement with the 
agreement of the Company or at the 
discretion of the Board. DASBs will either 
vest on the normal vesting date or such 
earlier date as the Board determines
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors do not have 
service contracts and do not participate  
in any Company pension, share or incentive 
schemes. In accordance with best practice, 
letters of appointment have been issued  
for all Non-Executive Directors for an initial  
period of three years, but may be terminated 
by either party with three months’ notice.  
No compensation is payable on termination, 
except for fees and expenses accrued to  
date. These letters are available for  
inspection by shareholders at each AGM  
and during normal business hours at  
the Company’s registered office.
External appointments
Essentra recognises its senior executives can 
benefit from serving in a personal capacity  
as non-executive directors of non-Essentra 
Group companies. It is, at the same time, 
conscious of the corporate governance 
recommendations that Executive Directors 
should take account of the time commitment 
required by a non-executive position.  
Executive Directors are permitted to accept  
non-executive directorships offered by listed 
companies and other organisations, which 
provide industry experience or public service. 
Such outside appointments are subject to prior 
Board approval, taking into account existing  
duties potential conflicts of interest and  
time commitments outside of Essentra’s 
responsibilities. Any fees earned from  
these roles may be retained by the  
Executive Director.
74 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Committee processes
The Remuneration Committee during  
the year consisted of Paul Drechsler 
(Committee Chairman), Lars Emilson  
(resigned on 5 February 2013), Terry Twigger, 
Peter Hill (appointed on 1 July 2013) and 
Lorraine Trainer (appointed on 1 July 2013).  
As reported in the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman’s letter on page 66 it is intended  
that Lorraine Trainer will be appointed as 
the Remuneration Committee Chairman  
after the 2014 AGM, subject to her election, 
following Paul Drechsler stepping down.
The Remuneration Committee met three  
times during the year. Details of the 
attendance are shown in the Remuneration 
Policy Report on page 67 .
Remuneration Committee 2013  
key activities
 > Approved the Remuneration Report  
for the Annual Report 2012
 > Reviewed and approved a UK Sharesave 
invitation for 2013
 > Approved the 2013 cash bonus payments 
including the achievement of the 2012 
personal objectives 
 > Approved the bonus rules and targets for 
2013 including the personal objectives for 
the Group Management Committee
 > Approved the LTIP B awards made in  
April 2013
 > Monitored the Group Leadership Team’s 
shareholding requirements
 > Reviewed Executive Director basic salaries 
for 2014
 > Considered overall policy in line with new 
reporting regulations
 > Exercised discretion over good leaver terms 
for the Company’s share incentive plans
 > Reviewed and approved a proposal,  
to be submitted to shareholders, for the 
implementation of an All Employee 
Sharesave plan in the US
 > Reviewed the senior executive remuneration 
risk policy 
Advice
During the year, Essentra’s Group Human 
Resources Director was invited by the 
Remuneration Committee to provide views 
and advice. In addition, with the approval of 
the Remuneration Committee, the Company 
received services and advice from the following 
independent and expert consultants:
 > New Bridge Street, a part of Aon Hewitt  
who are a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and have signed  
up to its Code of Conduct, provided  
advice on the Company’s long-term share 
incentive plans and on the remuneration  
of the Executive Directors and other senior 
executives within the Company.  
New Bridge Street provided no other 
services to the Company. Fees charged  
for the year under review were £81,500
 > Punter Southall, who provided advice and 
information on pension matters. Fees 
charged for the year under review were 
£117 ,162
 > Punter Southall, who provided investment 
consulting services to the Trustees of the 
Company’s UK pension scheme, and Aon 
Hewitt who provided actuarial advice to  
the Company for the US pension scheme  
and are appointed as the Group’s  
insurance broker 
The Remuneration Committee continuously 
monitors the Company’s relationship with 
independent advisers. The Company is 
comfortable that no conflicts of interest exist.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 75
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Total Single Remuneration Table for 2013 (audited)
The remuneration received by Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 (and the 31 December 2012 comparative) was as follows:
Year
Salary and 
fees
£000
Taxable 
benefits
1
£000
Cash in 
lieu of 
pension
2
£000
Bonus (cash  
and deferred  
shared)
3
£000
Long-Term 
Incentive  
Plan
£000
Remuneration 
following 
loss of office
£000
Other
4
£000
Total
£000
Executive Directors
Colin Day 2013 600 19 150 900 2,053
5
– – 3,722
2012 564 19 141 846 – – – 1,570
Matthew Gregory
7
2013 280 13 56 350 327
6
– 61 1,087
2012 80 4 16 100 – – – 200
Steve Crummett
8
2013 – – – – – – – –
2012 207 22 41 259 – 501 – 1,030
Non-Executive 
Directors
Jeff Harris 2013 178 – – – – – – 178
2012 174 – – – – – – 174
Paul Drechsler 2013 61 – – – – – – 61
2012 58 – – – – – – 58
Peter Hill 2013 23 – – – – – – 23
2012 – – – – – – – –
Lorraine Trainer 2013 23 – – – – – – 23
2012 – – – – – – – –
Terry Twigger 2013 56 – – – – – – 56
2012 53 – – – – – – 53
Lars Emilson 2013 8 – – – – – – 8
2012 43 – – – – – – 43
1
 Taxable benefits comprises of a fully expensed car or cash allowance plus private medical insurance and life insurance cover
2
 Colin Day receives a pension contribution of 25% of basic salary while Mathew Gregory receives a pension contribution of 15% of basic salary
3
 50% of the annual bonus is deferred into shares for a period of three years
4
  Exercise of a five-year savings contract in the Company’s Sharesave Scheme. The valuation is the difference between the exercise price and the option price on the 
date which they become exercisable
5
 Long Term Incentive Plan Part B
6
  Long Term Incentive Plan Part A
7
 Appointed 7 September 2012 and therefore his variable pay was pro-rated for time served during the year ended 31 December 2012
8
  Resigned as a Director on 7 September 2012, Steve Crummett remained employed by the Company until 31 December 2012. For the year ended 31 December 2012  
Steve received £94,977 in salary, £18,996 in benefits and £118,721 bonus for this period. Steve also received a payment of £268,528 as compensation for loss of office
Outside appointments (unaudited)
Colin Day is a non-executive director of AMEC plc and WPP Group plc, and received fees of £195,700 in respect of these directorships for the year 
ended 31 December 2013. 
76 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Pension schemes (audited)
Colin Day received a supplementary payment equal to 25% of basic salary to permit him to secure pension benefits, and is separately provided  
with life assurance cover with a benefit of four times basic salary.
Matthew Gregory received a supplementary payment equal to 20% of his basic salary to permit him to secure pension benefits. Matthew 
contributes 5% of his basic salary up to the scheme specific cap which the Company matches. The Company match is deducted from his 
supplementary payment. Matthew is a member of the Essentra Pension Plan – Defined Contribution section (“the DC plan”). The DC plan  
provides a death in service benefit of four times basic salary.
Annual bonus (audited)
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the performance measures and targets for the Executive Directors were based upon a matrix of balanced 
growth, working capital and personal objectives. 
Performance measure
Weighting
%
Threshold
%
Target range
%
Maximum
%
Actual
%
Balanced growth
80 5 40 80 80
Working capital
10 n/a 10 10 10 
Personal objectives
10 n/a 10 10 10 
The Executive Directors each have four personal objectives which do not have specific weightings applied to them. The Remuneration Committee  
has reviewed their performance against these objectives, and a maximum award for this element of the annual bonus has been approved.
Total bonuses awarded in respect of performance for the year ended 31 December 2013 were therefore:
Name of Director
Cash bonus
£000
Deferred share bonus award
£000
Total bonus
£000
Colin Day
450 450 900
Matthew Gregory 
175 175 350
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of bonus payable is reflective of the corporate and individual performance during the year. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 77 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Equity incentives (audited)
Details of the awards granted and outstanding during the year to the Executive Directors under the LTIP Part B and DASB are as follows:
Scheme Date of grant
At 1 Jan  
2013
Awarded  
in year
Transferred  
in year
At 31 Dec  
2013
Share price at 
date of award
Earliest  
vesting date Expiry date
Colin Day
LTIP Part B 20 April  
2011
259,842 – – 259,842 317.50p 20 April  
2014
19 April  
2017
LTIP Part B 26 August 
2011
80,929 – – 80,929 339.80p 26 February 
2015
¥
25 August 
2017
LTIP Part B 27 April  
2012
359,840 – – 359,840 400.70p 27 April  
2015
26 April  
2018
LTIP Part B 21 March  
2013
– 260,115 – 260,115 692.00p 21 March 
2016
20 March
2019
DASB 24 February 
2012
57,688 – – 57,688 446.90p 1 March  
2015
1 March  
2015
DASB 21 March 
2013
– 61,100 – 61,100 692.00p 1 March 
2016
1 March 
2016
Matthew Gregory
LTIP Part B 26 August 
2011
16,553 – – 16,553 339.80p 26 February 
2015
¥
25 August  
2017
LTIP Part B 27 April  
2012
67,021 – – 67,021 400.70p 27 April  
2015
26 April  
2018
LTIP Part B 21 March  
2013
– 80,924 – 80,924 692.00p 21 March
2016
20 March 
2019
DASB 28 February 
2011
10,143 – – 10,143 299.10p 1 March  
2014
1 March  
2014
DASB 24 February 
2012
13,425 – – 13,425 446.90p 1 March  
2015
1 March  
2015
DASB 21 March  
2013
– 13,450 – 13,450 692.00p 1 March 
2016
1 March
2016
¥
 Subject to the announcement of the Company’s financial results for the previous year
A total of 1,191,953 (2012: 1,406,221) share incentive awards under the LTIP Part B and the DASB were granted during the year ended 31 December 2013 
to Executive Directors and other senior executives, including members of the Group Leadership Team who were not awarded shares under the DASB 
during 2012.
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 December 2013 was 859p. The middle market price of an ordinary share in the 
Company during the year ranged from 543p to 859p.
All LTIP B awards are subject half to a relative TSR performance condition and half to an adjusted EPS performance condition.
All relative TSR performance conditions are measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index at the beginning of the performance 
period, over a three-year performance period from the date of grant. 12.5% of total awards will vest for a median performance, rising on a straight-
line basis to 50% of total awards vesting for upper quartile performance.
For awards granted before 2012, the adjusted EPS performance targets for 12.5% of total awards vesting were RPI +3% pa, rising on a straight-line 
basis to 50% of total awards vesting for RPI +8% pa. For April 2012 awards, the EPS targets are 13% pa to 20% pa. For March 2013 awards, the targets 
are 8% pa to 15% pa. The table below sets out the potential vesting for these awards based on Essentra’s TSR performance as at 31 December 2013. 
The actual level of vesting of these awards will depend on the Company’s performance as at the end of the relevant performance period for each 
award and therefore may differ from that set out below.
The table below sets out the potential vesting for these awards based on Essentra’s TSR performance as at 31 December 2013. The actual level of
vesting of these awards will depend on the Company’s performance as at the end of the relevant performance period for each award and therefore
may differ from that set out below. 
Grant date Vesting date TSR performance Indicative vesting
1
April 2011 April 2014 Upper quartile 100%
August 2011 February 2015 Upper quartile 100%
April 2012 April 2015 Upper quartile 100%
March 2013 March 2016 n/a n/a
1
 Based on performance measured up to 31 December 2013
78 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The LTIP A awards granted in August 2010 were subject to an adjusted EPS which ended on 31 December 2013. The performance conditions and 
actual performance are stated below.
Measure Condition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
EPS Annualised adjusted 
EPS growth 
measured against 
RPI over three 
financial years
RPI + 3% pa RPI + 3% pa  60.73% 
in excess of 
maximum target
100%
The LTIP B awards granted in April 2011 are due to vest in April 2014 and were subject to relative TSR and adjusted EPS growth measures which ended 
(or were substantially complete) on 31 December 2013. The performance conditions and actual performance are summarised below:
Measure Condition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
Relative TSR
*
TSR measured 
against the 
constituents  
of the FTSE 250 
(excluding 
investment trusts) 
index over the three 
years from date of 
grant
Median rank for 
12.5% of award
Upper quartile 
rank for 50% 
of award
TSR 183% 
Rank 10 out of 
195 companies
100%
EPS Annualised adjusted 
EPS growth 
measured against 
RPI over three 
financial years
RPI + 3% pa for 
12.5%
of award
RPI + 8% pa  
for 50%
of award
44.03% 
in excess of 
maximum target
100%
* 
For TSR this is based on estimated performance to 31 December 2013 (final averaging period will be calculated over the three months to April 2014)
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of vesting is a fair reflection of the performance of the business over the three-year 
performance period. The awards which will vest to the Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2014 are summarised in the  
table below:
Executive Number of awards granted Vesting
Number of shares
vesting
1
Value of awards
2
Colin Day (LTIP B)
259,842 100% 259,842 £2,052,895
Matthew Gregory (LTIP A)
59,096 100% 59,096 £326,800
3
1
 Based on estimated vesting as at 20 February 2014
2
   The indicative value shown has been included in the total single figure for remuneration table based on the three month average share price to 31 December 2013 
of 790p
3
 Net of option price of £2.369
Long-term incentive awards granted during the year
On 21 March 2013 the following LTIP B awards were made to Executive Directors:
Executive Type of award
Number of  
awards granted Basis of award
Share price  
on grant* Face value*
Percentage 
which vests at 
threshold
Colin Day
Performance share 260,115 300% of salary 692.00p £1,800,000 25%
Matthew Gregory
Performance share 80,924 200% of salary 692.00p £560,000 25%
*
 Face value is based on the mid-market closing share price on the day prior to the date of grant
Awards are subject to performance conditions which are 50% dependent on relative TSR performance targets measured against the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts) index with a median to upper quartile ranking vesting schedule, and 50% dependent on adjusted EPS growth 
performance targets of 8% pa to 15% pa. Performance is measured over three years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 79 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Save As You Earn scheme (audited)
In addition to the LTIP B, the Company operates a Save As You Earn share option scheme (‘SAYE”). 
Colin Day joined the SAYE in 2012, contributing the statutory maximum monthly amount of £250. Matthew Gregory joined the current  
SAYE invitation in 2013, contributing the statutory maximum monthly amount of £250. 
Details of the awards granted and outstanding under the LTIP Part A and the SAYE are as follows:
Scheme Date of grant
At 1 Jan  
2013
Granted  
in year
Exercised  
in year
At 31 Dec  
2013
Exercise  
price
Share price  
at date of 
 exercise
Earliest 
vesting 
date
Expiry
 date
Colin Day
SAYE 1 May 2012 2,540 – – 2,540 354.24p – 1 May  
2015
31 October  
2015
Matthew Gregory
LTIP A 23 June  
2005
22,594 – 22,594
1
– 239.00p 745.00p 23 June  
2008
22 June  
2015
8 September  
2006
12,953 – 12,953 254.75p 8 September  
2009
7 September  
2016
31 August  
2007
29,288 – – 29,288 239.00p 31 August  
2010
30 August  
2017
1 September  
2008
49,792 – – 49,792 180.75p 1 September  
2011
31 August 
 2018
28 September 
2009
54,933 – – 54,933 169.50p 21 February  
2013
3
27 September  
2019
31 August  
2010
59,096 – – 59,096 236.90p 28 February  
2014
3
30 August  
2020
SAYE 1 May  
2008
11,067 – 11,067
2
– 151.80p 706.00p 1 May  
2013
31 October  
2013
1 May  
2013
– 3,030 – 3,030 495.00p 1 May  
2018
31 October  
2018
1
 After funding the cost of this HMRC approved option, 8,067 shares were retained
2
 After funding the cost of this HMRC approved option all shares were retained
3
 Subject to the announcement of the Company’s financial results for the previous year
Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
The beneficial interests of the current Directors in office at 31 December 2013, and the date of this Report, in the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company were as follows: 
Beneficially owned
% of salary  
held under 
shareholding 
guideline LTIP B awards LTIP A awards DASB SAYE Total
31 Dec  
2012
1
31 Dec  
2013
Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Unvested 31 Dec 
2013
Executive 
Directors
Colin Day 254,543 259,684
2
372% 960,726 – – – 118,788 2,540 1,341,738
Matthew Gregory 6,032 25,316 78% 164,498 – 59,096 146,966 37 ,018 3,030 435,924
Non-Executive 
Directors
Jeff Harris 51,651 59,651 59,651
Paul Drechsler 18,519 18,519 18,519
Peter Hill – 10,000 10,000
Lorraine Trainer – 7,500 7,500
Terry Twigger 7,500 7,500 7,500
1
 Or date of appointment
2
 An additional 52,289 shares are also held by Colin Day’s family members 
80 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED 31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13
Essentra plc FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index
0
40
80
120
160
200
240
280
320
360
400
440
480
520
560
600
640
680
720
760
800
Source: Thomson Financial (Datastream)
Five-year CEO table (unaudited)
Mark Harper Colin Day
2009 2010 1 Jan –
14 April 2011
1 April –
31 Dec 2011
2012 2013
Total remuneration 
(£000)
1,038 2,932 1,715 1,046 1,570 3,722
Annual bonus (%)
20% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
LTIP vesting (%)
73% 100% 100% n/a n/a 100%
Mark Harper retired on 14 April 2014 and Colin Day was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2014.
The Annual Bonus and LTIP figures show the payout as a percentage of the maximum. Annual Bonuses for 2011 were pro rated for both 
executives to reflect time served. Mark Harper’s LTIP B award vested on the normal date, pro-rated for time and performance.
The value of Sharesave awards has been included in the total remuneration figure on the date they became exercisable.
The Executive Directors are regarded as being interested in 2,484,586 (2012: 1,614,685) ordinary shares in Essentra plc currently held by the Essentra 
Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as they are, together with other Essentra employees, potential beneficiaries of the EBT. These shares are held in order 
to satisfy employee entitlements relating to the Company’s share plans. 
As at 31 December 2013, potential and actual share issuance through employee related share plans totalled 3.6%, which is well below UK institutional 
shareholder limits of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital.
Performance graph (unaudited)
The graph below represents the comparative TSR performance of the Company versus the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index for the last 
five years. This index has been selected as it is considered the most appropriate published general index in which the Company is a constituent.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 81 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer (unaudited)
Chief Executive (£000) 2013 2012 % change
– Salary
600 564 6.4%
– Benefits
19 19 –
– Bonus
900 846 6.4%
The table above shows the percentage movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and previous 
financial year.
The average salary of an UK employee for 2013 when compared to 2012 increased by 3%. As previously stated in the 2012 Annual Report, Colin Day 
received an above average increase of 6.2% due to the Company’s growth and organisational development since his appointment as Chief 
Executive. Benefits and bonus increases for 2013 when compared to 2012 are in line with salary changes for both the Chief Executive and the wider 
UK employee population.
UK employees have been chosen as the most appropriate comparator group as they represent those employee eligible to participate in the same 
reward plans as the Chief Executive. Group-wide figures can be distorted by different reward practices in different geographies and movements in 
the number of employees.
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited)
Chief Executive (£m) 2013 2012 % change
Staff costs¹ 
179.7 150.2 19.6
Distributions to shareholders
31.2 23.2 34.5
Revenue
798.1 663.4 20.3
Adjusted operating profit
130.4 104.5 24.8
1 
Staff costs are as per note 6 on page 112 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 2
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2014 (unaudited)
Salary
Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance 
and experience of the individual. Salaries are reviewed annually with any increase being effective from 1 January (unless responsibilities change). 
Salary levels are determined taking into account market data on salary levels for similar positions at comparable companies. The Company aims  
to position basic salary around the mid-market level of the relevant comparator companies to remain competitive. 
As a result of a review completed in December 2013 the salary for Colin Day was increased by 3%. Matthew Gregory’s basic salary was increased by 
7%. This reflects the continued strong progression of Matthew in the role of Group Finance Director and, as his development continues, is part of an 
anticipated series of phased increases to bring his salary to the desired market position.
Colin Day Matthew Gregory
Annual salary effective from 1 January 2014 £618,000 £300,000
Annual salary effective from 1 January 2013 £600,000 £280,000
Benefits 
Executive Directors will be provided with the following benefits:
 > Car, fuel and / or car allowance
 > Private medical insurance with family level cover
 > Life insurance cover of four times basic salary
Pension
Colin Day will receive a supplementary payment equal to 25% of annual salary to permit him to secure pension benefits. 
Matthew Gregory will receive a defined contribution and / or supplementary payment of 15% of his basic salary to permit him to secure  
pension benefits. 
82 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Annual bonuses
Each year, the Remuneration Committee reviews the annual bonus, to ensure the performance measures and targets remain appropriate and 
aligned to the Company’s short-term strategy, while remaining within the appropriate risk profile.
Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2014, Colin Day is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 150% of basic salary. 
Matthew Gregory is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 125% of basic salary. Bonus payments are normally made one half in cash  
and one half in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being deferred for three years, in accordance with the rules of the DASB.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the performance criteria will be as follows:
Performance criteria Weighting (%) On-target Maximum 
Balanced growth 80 40% of bonus 80% of bonus
Working capital 10 10% of bonus 10% of bonus
Personal objectives 10 10% of bonus 10% of bonus
The Remuneration Committee believes that revenue, profit and working capital targets will be commercially sensitive. The Committee therefore  
will not disclose the targets on a prospective basis. The targets and actual performance against them will be disclosed on a retrospective basis  
where possible. 
In addition to the financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has also set the personal performance measures for Colin Day and  
Matthew Gregory, which are designed to deliver further progress by the Company towards the strategic objectives associated with its Vision  
2015 strategy and beyond, in conjunction with the move to a new organisational structure.
The objectives set do not have a specific weighting applied to them but are considered as a whole by the Remuneration Committee.
Half of the bonus will be paid in shares under DASB. The DASB provides for Executive Directors and other senior executives to receive existing issued 
ordinary shares in the Company for nil payment. The number of shares subject to an award is determined at the time the award is granted, based 
upon bonus determined for the preceding year.
Shares awarded under the DASB are held in trust until at least 1 March in the third calendar year after the year in which the award was made. 
Subject to confirmation from the Company and continued employment within the Group, the shares are transferred to the participant at  
their request.
For 2010 awards onwards, the Remuneration Committee has retained the discretion to reduce the size of unvested DASB awards if it is found that 
the performance on which the original award was determined was materially misstated. If an award vests to a greater extent than it should have 
done due to a material misstatement in the Company’s financial statements or due to an error in assessing the applicable performance conditions, 
then the Remuneration Committee can seek to recover the extra value received as a result of the error. The Remuneration Committee can also seek 
to recover such amount as it considers appropriate as a result of gross misconduct. 
The Remuneration Committee has three years from the date on which the Award becomes exercisable to determine whether or not to apply 
clawback provisions.
Long-Term Incentive Plan B – performance shares
A performance share award under LTIP B consists of a conditional right to receive shares in the Company, subject to performance conditions, on  
the basis described below. Participants make no payment for the grant and exercise of performance share awards. Since 2012 members of the 
Group Leadership Team are eligible to receive awards under LTIP B. Previously awards were made only to Executive Directors and members of the 
Group Management Committee.
Participants may receive performance share awards over shares worth up to two times their basic salary (three times for the Chief Executive) in any 
financial year. A performance share award will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its award and may only be exercised to the 
extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied. The awards are structured as nil cost options. For employees based outside 
the US, the options remain capable of being exercised up to the sixth anniversary of grant. For employees based in the US, once the performance 
conditions have been satisfied the options must be exercised within 30 days of vesting.
One half of the awards are subject to a TSR performance condition and one half of the awards will be subject to an adjusted EPS performance 
condition. The Remuneration Committee reviews performance measures and targets on an annual basis and believes that both these conditions 
remain appropriate, offering a balance of internal financial metrics and external shareholder-aligned measures. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 83 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The TSR performance condition assesses Essentra’s TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index. 
Performance is measured over three years from the time of grant. 12.5% of the total award vests for median performance, increasing on a straight 
line basis to 50% of the total award vesting for upper quartile performance or above.
The adjusted EPS performance condition for these awards requires the Company’s EPS growth (adjusted to exclude items which did not reflect the 
Company’s underlying financial performance and intangible amortisation) over three financial years to be in excess of 8.5% per annum for 12.5% of 
the total awards to vest. The proportion of the awards vesting will increase on a straight line basis, and for 50% of the total awards to vest the 
adjusted EPS growth must be in excess of 15.5% per annum. The performance condition will be tested after three financial years and there will be no 
provision for retesting. To the extent the performance condition has not been met after three financial years, the relevant awards will lapse. Targets 
will be adjusted to take account of acquisitions or share buy-backs the Company makes.
Supplementary fee
Chairman
Non-Executive 
Director
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Additional fee for chairing a 
Committee
Annual fee effective  
from 1 January 2014
£190,000 £50,000 £5,300 £10,560
Annual fee effective from 
1 January 2013
£178,000 £45,000 £5,300 £10,560
Statement of shareholder voting
The results of shareholder voting in relation to the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM were as follows:
Votes cast in favour 185,529,341 95.57%
Votes cast in against 8,601,501 4.43%
Total votes cast 194,130,842 100%
Abstentions 5,510,664 n/a
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Committee engaged with major shareholders on the ongoing remuneration policy and its proposed 
application for 2014. Shareholder sentiment was supportive and as a result no changes to the policy have been proposed. 
This Report of the Remuneration Committee, including both the Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration, has been approved by  
the Board.
By order of the Board
PAUL DRECHSLER
Remuneration Committee Chairman
20 February 2014
84 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
The Directors present their Report prepared  
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
which requires the Company to provide a fair 
review of the business of the Group during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2013, and 
audited financial statements of the Company 
and its subsidiary undertakings for the year 
ended 31 December 2013.
As at 25 June 2013 the Company changed  
its name in accordance with its Articles of 
Association from Filtrona plc to Essentra plc.
The Company’s Registered Office is Avebury 
House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton 
Keynes, MK9 1AU.
Results and dividends
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation 
of the Group for the year ended 31 December 
2013 was £60.3m (2012: £52.1m).
As at 20 February 2014 the Company has paid 
the following dividend in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2013:
Per share 
p
Total
£m
Interim dividend paid  
28 October 2013 
4.8 11.2
The Directors recommend that a final dividend 
of 10.6p (2012: 8.6p) per share be paid, making 
a total dividend distribution for the year of 
15.4p (2012: 12.5p).
The final dividend, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM, will be paid on 2 May 
2014 to shareholders on the register at  
12 April 2014.
Directors 
During the year ended 31 December 2013,  
the Board of Directors comprised:
Jeff Harris Non-Executive 
Chairman 
Colin Day Chief Executive
Matthew 
Gregory
Group Finance 
Director
Paul  
Drechsler
Senior 
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
Peter Hill Non-Executive 
Director
Appointed  
1 July 2013
Lorraine 
Trainer
Non-Executive
Director
Appointed  
1 July 2013
Terry Twigger Non-Executive 
Director
Lars Emilson Non-Executive 
Director
Resigned  
5 February 
2013
The Company is adopting the requirements  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
September 2012 in relation to Directors’ 
appointments and in particular the annual 
re-election of all Directors. Therefore, in 
accordance with provision B.7 .1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors 
will retire at the AGM and being eligible offer 
themselves up for re-election.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have 
service contracts.
In accordance with the Company’s Conflict  
of Interests policy, Directors are required to 
review their potential conflict of interests  
at least on an annual basis and to notify  
any changes to the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel as soon as possible.  
The current register was approved by the Board 
in October 2013 and no material conflicts of 
interest were identified during the year. 
At no time during the year has any Director 
had any material interest in a contract with 
the Group, being a contract of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business. A statement 
of Directors’ interests in shares of the Company 
is on page 80.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company is 
shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
In March 2013 the Company conducted an 
equity placing of 21,142,163 new ordinary shares 
of 25p each at a price of 675p per share, raising 
gross proceeds of approximately £142.7m which 
partially funded the acquisition of Contego 
Healthcare Limited. 
The rights and obligations attaching to  
the Company’s ordinary shares, and the 
provisions governing the appointment  
and replacement of, as well as the powers  
of, the Company’s Directors, are set out in  
the Company’s Articles of Association,  
copies of which can be obtained from 
Companies House in the UK or by writing  
to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares  
or on the transfer of securities in the Company, 
except, in the case of transfers of securities:
 > That certain restrictions may from  
time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, insider trading 
laws); and
 > Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority, certain 
employees of the Company require approval 
of the Company to deal in the Company’s 
ordinary shares
No persons hold securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control  
of the Company. The Company is not aware of 
any agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in  
the Articles of Association of the Company,  
the Company’s Articles of Association may  
be amended by special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Substantial shareholders
At the close of business on 19 February 2014, 
the Company was advised of the following 
voting rights attaching to the Company’s 
shares in accordance with the Disclosure  
and Transparency Rules:
% of total 
voting rights
BlackRock Inc 17.02
Capital Trust 7.00
Oppenheimer International 
Growth Funds
5.53
Employees
As at 31 December 2013 the Company 
employed 5,732 people globally and 1,408 
people in the UK. Information on the Group’s 
policies on employee recruitment, engagement 
and the employment of disabled persons can 
be found in the Corporate Responsibility 
Statement on pages 45 to 46.
Political contributions
In line with Group policy the Company  
made no political contributions (2012: £nil).
Environmental
The disclosures concerning greenhouse  
gas emissions required by law are included  
in the Strategic Report on page 47 .
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 85 Directors’ indemnities
During the year and as at the date of this 
Report, indemnities are in force under which 
the Company has agreed to indemnify the 
Directors and the Company Secretary & 
General Counsel, in addition to other senior 
executives who are Directors of subsidiaries  
of the Company, to the extent permitted  
by law and the Company’s Articles of 
Association, in respect of all losses arising  
out of or in connection with the execution  
of their powers, duties and responsibilities  
as a Director or Officer of the Company  
or any of its subsidiaries, including the  
pension scheme trustee companies. 
The scope of the indemnities extends  
to include liabilities to third parties.
Significant agreements
The Company has committed bank facilities 
consisting of two five-year multi-currency 
revolving credit facilities of £165.6m and 
€187 .7m. Under the terms of these facilities,  
the banks can give notice to Essentra to  
repay outstanding amounts and cancel  
the commitments where there is a change  
of control of the Company.
Under a note purchase agreement dated  
29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior notes 
due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior notes  
due 29 April 2020, on a change of control the 
Company must make an offer to prepay all  
the notes at par, without any premium of  
any kind, together with accrued and unpaid 
interest thereon.
All of the Company’s share schemes contain 
provisions relating to a change in control. 
Outstanding options and awards normally 
vest and become exercisable on a change  
of control subject to the satisfaction of any 
performance conditions at that time.
There are a number of other agreements, 
involving the Company or its subsidiaries,  
that take effect, alter or terminate upon  
a change of control of the Company following  
a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts 
and joint venture agreements. None are 
considered to be significant in terms of their 
potential impact on the business of the Group 
as a whole, to any potential bidder for the 
Company or Group.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at  
the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, 
Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK9 2HQ  
on Tuesday 29 April 2014 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the 
AGM, resolutions in respect of the following 
matters of special business are included in  
the Notice of Annual General Meeting:
Authority to allot unissued shares
At the last AGM held in 2013, the Directors were 
granted authority to allot relevant securities  
up to a nominal amount of £17 ,616,915, which 
expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM. 
At this year’s AGM, shareholders will be asked 
to grant the Directors authority to allot shares 
or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any 
security into shares: (i) up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £19 ,597 ,042 representing 
approximately one-third of the Company’s 
issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, 
at 19 February 2014 (such an amount to be 
reduced by the nominal amount allotted or 
granted under section (ii) below in excess  
of such sum); and (ii) comprising equity 
securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £39 ,194,085 representing approximately  
two-thirds of the issued share capital, 
excluding treasury shares, at 19 February 2014 
(such an amount to be reduced by any 
allotments or grants made under section  
(i) above) in connection with an offer by way 
of a rights issue. 
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued 
by the institutional investment protection 
bodies to ensure that existing shareholders’ 
interests are safeguarded. The Directors have 
no present intention of exercising either of 
these authorities, which will expire at the end 
of next year’s AGM (or, if earlier, the close of 
business on 28 June 2015) except in relation  
to share options.
Allotment of shares for cash
At the last AGM held in 2013, shareholders 
approved a special resolution to enable the 
Directors to allot shares for cash without  
first offering them to existing shareholders  
in proportion to their existing shareholdings. 
That approval expires at the end of the 
forthcoming AGM and resolution 17 in  
the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the Directors to allot 
or sell shares for cash without first offering 
them to existing shareholders in proportion to 
their existing shareholdings up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of 5% of the issued share 
capital of the Company, including treasury 
shares, at 31 December 2013 (equivalent to 
12,023,470 ordinary shares).
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, 
the Directors confirm their intention to follow 
the provisions of the Pre-Emption Group’s 
Statement of Principles regarding cumulative 
usage of authorities within a rolling three-year 
period where the Principles provide that usage 
in excess of 7 .5% should not take place without 
prior consultation with shareholders. 
This authority will expire at the conclusion of 
the following AGM or, if earlier, on 28 June 2015. 
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued 
by the institutional investment protection 
bodies to ensure that existing shareholders’ 
interests are safeguarded. 
Purchase of own shares
At the last AGM held in 2013, shareholders 
approved a special resolution to enable  
the Company to purchase its own shares.  
That approval expires at the end of the 
forthcoming AGM. 
At this year’s AGM, the Directors consider  
it expedient to seek shareholders’ approval  
to enable the Company to purchase, in  
the market, up to 10% of its issued share 
capital (excluding any treasury shares)  
for cancellation, or to be held in Treasury,  
such power to apply until the end of  
next year’s AGM (or if earlier, 28 June 2015).  
In accordance with the requirements of  
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, the minimum price (exclusive of 
expenses) which may be paid for a share is  
its nominal value and the maximum price 
(exclusive of expenses) for shares which may 
be paid is the highest of: (i) an amount equal 
to 105% of the average market value for a 
share for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date of the purchase; and (ii) 
the higher of the price of the last independent 
trade and the highest current independent bid 
on the trading venues where the purchase is 
carried out. 
The Directors have no present intention  
of exercising the authority to make market 
purchases, however the authority provides  
the flexibility to allow them to do so in the 
future. The Directors will only utilise this 
authority if satisfied that to do so would be  
in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders generally, and could be expected 
to result in an increase in earnings per share of 
the Company. 
During the financial year ending 31 December 
2013 2,638,778 ordinary shares were transferred 
out of Treasury by the Company to satisfy 
share options under the Company’s SAYE / 
Sharesave and executive share incentive plans.
No dividends have been paid on shares while 
held in Treasury and no voting rights attach  
to the treasury shares.
86 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Renewal of UK Sharesave and adoption  
of new US plan
The Company currently operates an HMRC  
tax favoured savings-related share option  
plan (the “Sharesave”) for the benefit of its  
UK-based employees. 
Under the Sharesave, which must be operated 
on an all-employee basis in the UK, participants 
may sign up to savings contracts to save up  
to £500 per month for invitations after April 
2014 (previously £250 per month) over a three 
or five-year savings term. On the maturity of 
the contracts, participants can elect to use 
their savings (and any interest) to exercise a 
linked discounted share option to acquire 
shares on tax-favoured terms or ask for the 
return of the savings (and any interest). 
Authority to make grants under the  
Sharesave will expire in 2015. The current 
intention is to continue to focus the Company’s 
All Employee Share Scheme policy through 
savings-related share option scheme participation. 
The Company is therefore seeking authority  
to revise the rules of the Sharesave to incorporate 
minor modifications to reflect the current 
legislation relating to sharesaves and to extend 
the operation of the Sharesave for another  
ten years.
Separately, the Company wishes to establish  
a similar arrangement to the Sharesave for  
the benefit of its US-based employees in the 
form of a tax-favoured stock purchase plan 
(the “US Plan”). 
The US Plan will allow US employees to acquire 
shares under discounted share options with 
savings made over a two-year period. This  
type of share scheme is commonly operated 
by US companies and may deliver tax benefits 
to participants where shares are retained for  
at least one year following acquisition.
Resolution 14 seeks authority from 
shareholders to revise the rules of the 
Sharesave to the proposed updated form.
Resolution 15 seek authority from shareholders 
to implement the US Plan. 
Auditor
The external auditor KPMG Audit Plc has 
instigated an orderly wind down of their 
business. The Board has decided to put KPMG 
LLP forward to be appointed as the external 
auditor and a resolution concerning their 
appointment will be put to the forthcoming 
AGM of the Company.
Recommendation
The Directors believe that the resolutions in  
the Notice of Annual General Meeting are  
in the best interests of the Company and  
its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously 
recommend that shareholders vote in favour 
of each resolution.
Content included in the Strategic Report
The following content is included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 ; an 
indication of the likely future developments in 
the business of the Company; an indication of  
the activities of the Company in the field of 
research and development; and disclosure on 
the Company’s policy as regards employment 
of disabled persons and employee involvement.
Derivatives
Information related to derivatives is included  
in the Accounting Policies on page 97 in the 
2013 Annual Report Book 2, and in note 15.
Going concern statement
The Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company has adequate resources  
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future and accordingly have 
adopted the going concern basis in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements. Further 
information regarding the financial position  
of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, 
and borrowing facilities are described in  
the Financial Review on pages 22 to 23.  
In addition, note 1 to the financial 
statements on pages 102 to 107 of the  
2013 Annual Report Book 2 includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes  
for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities 
and exposures to credit, market and liquidity 
risk. Cash balances and borrowings are 
included in note 21 on page 125 of the 2013 
Annual Report Book 2. This disclosure has been 
prepared in accordance the with Financial 
Reporting Council’s Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: “Guide for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009 .”
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to the external auditor
As required by section 418(2) of the Companies 
Act 2006, the Directors who were members of 
the Board at the time of approving this Report, 
having made enquiries of fellow Directors and 
of the external auditor, confirm that:
 > As far as each Director is aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s external auditor is unaware
 > Each Director has taken all steps that  
he ought to have taken as a director to 
ascertain any relevant audit information 
and to ensure that the Company’s external 
auditor is aware of that information
The Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, 
including the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee, were approved by the Board  
on 20 February 2014. 
By order of the Board
JON GREEN
Company Secretary & General Counsel
20 February 2014
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 87 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
In respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing  
the Annual Report and the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group and Parent Company financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they  
are required to prepare the group financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards. 
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company, and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements, the 
Directors are required to: 
 > Select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently 
 > Make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
 > For the Group financial statements,  
state whether they have been prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the EU
 > For the Parent Company financial 
statements, state whether applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Parent Company 
financial statements 
 > Prepare the financial statements  
on the going concern basis unless it  
is inappropriate to presume that the  
Group and the Parent Company will 
continue in business 
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Parent Company, and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006.  
They have general responsibility for taking  
such steps as are reasonably open to them  
to safeguard the assets of the Group and  
to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities. 
 
Under applicable law and regulations,  
the Directors are also responsible for  
preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’  
Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report  
and Corporate Governance Statement that 
comply with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors who were in office  
at the date of this report, whose names and 
responsibilities are listed on page 51 confirm 
that, to the best of their knowledge:
 > The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and  
fair view of the assets and liabilities and 
financial positions and profit of the 
Company and its undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole;
 > The Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces
For and on behalf of the Board
COLIN DAY 
Chief Executive 
MATTHEW GREGORY
Group Finance Director
20 February 2014
88 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM The printer and paper manufacturing 
mill are both accredited with ISO 14001
Environmental Management Systems 
and are both Forest Stewardship 
Council
®
 certified. CPI Colour is also  
a certified CarbonNeutral
®
 company.
Designed and produced by  
Addison Group
www.addison-group.net Essentra plc 
Avebury House
201-249 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 1AU
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0)1908 359100
Facsimile: + 44 (0)1908 359120
Email: enquiries@essentra.com
www.essentra.com THE ESSENTIAL ENABLERS
 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK ESSENTRA ANNUAL REPORT 2013
This year’s report is divided into two books. 
Book 1 contains the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report, including the Chief 
Executive’s Review, the Financial Review, the 
Chairman of the Board’s Letter and the 
Report of the Remuneration Committee. 
Book 2 contains the financial statements, 
including details of the Company’s 
accounting policies and the independent 
external auditor’s report to  
the members of Essentra plc.
CONTENTS
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90 Consolidated Income Statement
91 Consolidated Statement    
 of Comprehensive Income
92 Consolidated Balance Sheet
93 Consolidated Statement of  
 Changes in Equity
94 Consolidated Statement  
 of Cash Flows
95 Accounting Policies
101 Critical Accounting  
 Judgements and Estimates
102 Notes
131  Essentra plc Company  
Balance Sheet
132 Accounting Policies
133 Notes
136 Independent Auditor’s Report  
 to the Members of Essentra plc only
139 Advisors and Investor information
ESSENTRA BELIEVES THAT LITTLE THINGS 
MAKE THE WORLD GO ROUND. WE ARE 
PROUD OF WHAT WE DO AND WANT TO 
SHOW THAT EVEN OUR SMALLEST 
COMPONENTS PLAY A BIG PART. 
ESSENTRA: THE ESSENTIAL ENABLERS  Note
2013
£m
2012 
(Restated)
£m
Revenue 2 798.1 663.4
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 130.4 104.5
Intangible amortisation (14.2) (8.3)
Exceptional operating items 3 (19.2) (10.6)
Operating profit 2 97.0 85.6
Finance income 4 1.0 1.1
Finance expense 4 (11.6) (11.8)
Profit before tax 86.4 74.9
Income tax expense 5 (26.1) (22.8)
Profit for the year 60.3 52.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of Essentra plc 60.1 50.8
Non-controlling interests 0.2 1.3
Profit for the year 60.3 52.1
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc:
Basic 7 26.3p 24.3p
Diluted 7 25.7p 23.5p
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2013
90 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Note 
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Profit for the year 60.3 52.1
Other comprehensive income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 18 11.2 6.1
Deferred tax (charge) / credit on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (3.1) (1.2)
8.1 4.9
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges:
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 0.1 (1.1)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.1) (0.1)
Foreign exchange translation differences:
Attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc:
Arising on translation of foreign operations (14.7) (15.7)
Arising on effective net investment hedges 0.2 6.4
Income tax charge on effective net investment hedges – (1.6)
Attributable to non-controlling interests (0.5) (0.2)
(15.0) (12.3)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (6.9) (7.4)
Total comprehensive income 53.4 44.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of Essentra plc 53.7 43.6
Non-controlling interests (0.3) 1.1
Total comprehensive income 53.4 44.7
for the year ended 31 December 2013
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 91 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Note
31 December
2013
£m
31 December
2012
(Restated)
£m
1 January 
2012
(Restated)
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 213.7 180.3 168.1
Intangible assets 9 396.7 206.3 185.5
Deferred tax assets 16 6.4 11.5 8.9
Retirement benefit assets 18 21.9 14.1 –
Total non-current assets 638.7 412.2 362.5
Inventories 10 75.5 76.7 66.4
Income tax receivable 4.0 2.2 7.0
Trade and other receivables 1,11 140.7 94.5 85.4
Derivative assets 1,15 0.2 0.3 1.2
Cash and cash equivalents 1,12 44.1 41.4 35.8
Total current assets 264.5 215.1 195.8
Total assets 903.2 627.3 558.3
Equity
Issued capital 19 60.1 54.8 54.8
Merger relief reserve 19 136.4 – –
Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1 0.1
Other reserve 20 (132.8) (132.8) (132.8)
Cash flow hedging reserve (0.1) (0.1) 1.1
Translation reserve (9.9) 4.6 15.5
Retained earnings 20 345.0 311.8 271.7
Attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc 398.8 238.4 210.4
Non-controlling interests 4.2 5.3 6.4
Total equity 403.0 243.7 216.8
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,14 254.7 204.9 177.3
Retirement benefit obligations 18 11.3 18.0 19.6
Provisions 17 3.1 2.8 2.2
Other financial liabilities 1 5.4 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 16 47.1 26.7 16.1
Total non-current liabilities 321.6 252.4 215.2
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,14 6.5 – 3.4
Derivative liabilities 1,15 0.3 0.2 0.5
Income tax payable 24.4 12.6 18.4
Trade and other payables 1,13 135.1 100.9 91.2
Provisions 17 12.3 17.5 12.8
Total current liabilities 178.6 131.2 126.3
Total liabilities 500.2 383.6 341.5
Total equity and liabilities 903.2 627.3 558.3
The consolidated financial statements on pages 90 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2014 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Colin Day Matthew Gregory
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
at 31 December 2013
92 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
2013
Issued  
capital  
£m
Merger 
relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m
Other  
reserve  
£m
Cash flow  
hedging  
reserve  
£m
Translation 
reserve  
£m
Retained 
earnings  
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests  
£m
Total  
equity  
£m
At 1 January 2013 –  
As previously reported 54.8 – 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) 4.6 308.4 5.3 240.3
Impact of changes in  
accounting policies 3.4 3.4
At 1 January 2013 – Restated 54.8 – 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) 4.6 311.8 5.3 243.7
Profit for the year 60.1 0.2 60.3
Other comprehensive income – (14.5) 8.1 (0.5) (6.9)
Total comprehensive  
income for the year – – – – – (14.5) 68.2 (0.3) 53.4
Issue of shares 5.3 136.4 141.7
Issue of shares to  
non-controlling interests 1.5 1.5
Acquisition of  
non-controlling interests (0.6) (1.3) (1.9)
Purchase of employee  
trust shares (16.3) (16.3)
Share options exercised 4.7 4.7
Share option expense 5.1 5.1
Tax relating to  
share-based incentives 3.3 3.3
Dividends paid (31.2) (1.0) (32.2)
At 31 December 2013 60.1 136.4 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) (9.9) 345.0 4.2 403.0
2012
(Restated)
Issued  
capital  
£m
Merger  
relief  
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m
Other  
reserve  
£m
Cash flow 
hedging  
reserve  
£m
Translation 
reserve  
£m
Retained 
earnings  
£m
Non- 
controlling  
interests  
£m
Total  
equity  
£m
At 1 January 2012 –  
As previously reported 54.8 – 0.1 (132.8) 1.1 15.5 268.3 6.4 213.4
Impact of changes  
in accounting policies 3.4 3.4
At 1 January 2012 – Restated 54.8 – 0.1 (132.8) 1.1 15.5 271.7 6.4 216.8
Profit for the year 50.8 1.3 52.1
Other comprehensive income (1.2) (10.9) 4.9 (0.2) (7.4)
Total comprehensive  
income for the year – – – – (1.2) (10.9) 55.7 1.1 44.7
Acquisition of non-controlling 
interests (0.9) (1.0) (1.9)
Purchase of employee trust 
shares (6.1) (6.1)
Share options exercised 5.7 5.7
Share option expense 4.0 4.0
Tax relating to share-based 
incentives 4.9 4.9
Dividends paid (23.2) (1.2) (24.4)
At 31 December 2012 54.8 – 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) 4.6 311.8 5.3 243.7
for the year ended 31 December 2013
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 93 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Note
2013 
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Operating activities
Profit for the year 60.3 52.1
Adjustments for:
Income tax expense 26.1 22.8
Net finance expense 4 10.6 10.7
Intangible amortisation 3,9 14.2 8.3
Exceptional operating items 3 19.2 10.6
Depreciation 3,8 26.7 22.6
Share option expense 18 5.1 4.0
Other movements (1.8) (1.6)
Decrease / (increase) in inventories 6.1 (9.2)
Increase in trade and other receivables (23.3) (10.4)
Increase in trade and other payables 11.9 11.8
Cash outflow in respect of exceptional operating items (10.5) (7.5)
Additional pension contributions (6.1) (7.6)
Movements in provisions (10.8) –
Cash inflow from operating activities 127.7 106.6
Income tax paid (17.5) (17 .6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 110.2 89.0
Investing activities
Interest received 0.3 0.3
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (44.1) (43.8)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.6
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired 23 (188.9) (36.0)
Proceeds from sale of businesses 24 – 3.1
Income tax paid on sale of businesses – (0.2)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (232.3) (76.0)
Financing activities
Interest paid (9.6) (9.2)
Dividends paid to equity holders (31.2) (23.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (1.0) (1.2)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests 26 (1.9) (1.9)
Proceeds from equity issue 19 141.7 –
Proceeds from issue of shares to non-controlling interests 1.5 –
Repayments of short-term loans – (3.3)
Proceeds from short-term loans 0.2 –
Proceeds from long-term loans 37.5 32.9
Purchase of employee trust shares (16.3) (6.1)
Proceeds from sale of employee trust shares 4.7 5.7
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities 125.6 (6.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 21 3.5 6.7
Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 41.4 35.8
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.5 6.7
Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents (0.8) (1.1)
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,12 44.1 41.4
for the year ended 31 December 2013
94 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) in accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606 / 2002) (“adopted IFRS”) 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Company has elected to prepare its 
individual company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”); these  
are presented on pages 131 to 135.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and retirement 
benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 
The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during 
the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results 
may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below. These policies have been consistently applied 
to all periods presented. 
The cash flow statement for the comparative period has been re-presented to include cash flows relating to the purchase of employee trust 
shares within financing activities.
Changes in accounting policies
In the current financial year, Essentra adopted the following accounting pronouncements. Otherwise, the accounting policies and 
presentation in this set of financial statements are consistent with those applied in the prior years.
The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income require items of other comprehensive income to be grouped 
by those items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and those that will not, together with the associated income tax. 
The amendments have been applied retrospectively. The effect is evident from the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 91.
IAS 19 (Revised 2011) Employee Benefits and the related consequential amendments have impacted the Group’s accounting for defined 
benefit schemes, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest charge on the net defined benefit  
asset / liability. For the year ended 31 December 2012, the restated profit is £1.4m lower (including associated tax impact of £0.6m) and  
other comprehensive income £1.4m higher than previously reported. In addition, IAS 19 (Revised 2011) requires the costs of administering  
the schemes to be recognised when the administration services are provided, with costs relating to the management of plan assets deducted 
from the return on plan assets. As a result, the defined benefit obligation as at 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2012 decreased by £4.4m to 
remove the impact of actuarial assumption for administration costs, with an associated decrease in the deferred tax liability of £1.0m.  
The basic earnings per share for 2012 is restated from 25.0p to 24.3p, and the diluted earnings per share is restated from 24.2p to 23.5p. 
Management considered it not practicable to determine the impact of the revised standard on the current period, as under the new policy 
interest income on plan assets is no longer determined based on their long-term rate of expected return.
The adoption of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements did not have any impact on the measurement of fair value of assets and liabilities.  
IFRS 7 (Amendment) Financial Instruments: Disclosures amends disclosure requirements to require information about all recognised financial 
instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of IAS 32. The new disclosures introduced by IFRS 13 and IFRS 7 are set out  
in note 1.
The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group. The Group does not currently expect the adoption  
of these standards or interpretations to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group:
IAS 32 (Amendment): Financial Instruments: Presentation provides clarification on the application of offsetting rules.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the guidance of control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC 12 Consolidation – Special 
Purpose Entities. The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains 
unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending on the rights 
and obligations of each party to the arrangement. Proportionate consolidation for joint ventures has been eliminated and equity accounting 
has become mandatory.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 95 ACCOUNTING POLICIES A. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests In Other Entities requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the Group’s 
interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements makes revisions to the requirements for separate financial statements prepared by a parent  
or an investor in a joint venture or associate.
IAS 28 (Revised) Associates and Joint Ventures includes consequential amendments resulting from the introduction of IFRS 11.
IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 (Revised), IAS 28 (Revised) and IAS 32 (Amendment) all become effective for the Group from 1 January 2014.
All other new pronouncements did not have, or are not expected to have, a significant impact on the Group.
For the purposes of these financial statements “Essentra” or “the Group” means Essentra plc (formerly Filtrona plc) (“the Company”) and  
its subsidiaries.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial 
Review on pages 22 to 23 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1. In addition, note 1 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk. Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21. The Directors have prepared 
plans and forecasts for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements. Based on these, and taking into 
consideration the risks detailed in note 1, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial 
statements. This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s Going Concern and Liquidity Risk “Guide for 
Directors of UK Companies 2009” .
B. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Essentra. Control exists when Essentra has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefit from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the financial statements.
C. FOREIGN CURRENCY
Items included in the financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which the subsidiary operates (“functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling (functional currency of the 
parent company).
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and  
recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply (see policy for financial instruments).
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling 
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average 
exchange rates. 
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to reserves, as are exchange 
differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are 
effective. Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement. Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in  
retained earnings.
96 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED D. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (“IAS 39”), interest bearing loans and borrowings and other 
financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship. See note 15  
for separate disclosure of hedge types. 
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value. Subsequent measurement in the financial statements depends on the classification of the 
derivative as follows:
(i) Fair value hedges
Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised 
in the income statement. 
(ii) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge the change in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive 
income to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. Where the underlying transaction 
results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are 
included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
(iii) Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
E. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Previously revalued properties were 
treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items. 
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the following annual rates: 
Freehold land   Not depreciated
Buildings    2% or life of lease if shorter
Plant and machinery  7-20%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10-33%
The assets’ useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
F . LEASES
Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis. Lease incentives are amortised in the 
income statement over the life of the lease. 
G. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses. 
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method. For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill represents the 
difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  
of the acquiree. For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount 
previously recorded under UK GAAP . 
Since 1 January 2010 the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement. Given their nature, these costs are 
generally presented within exceptional operating items.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 97 ACCOUNTING POLICIES G. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
(ii) Research and development
Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred. 
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing  
the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset  
will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure  
during development.
(iii) Other intangible assets
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic 
benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably. Intangible assets principally relate to customer 
relationships, which are valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates, and developed technology, which is 
valued using an income approach. The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income statement on a straight line basis over their 
estimated useful economic life. 
H. IMPAIRMENT
All assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives 
are tested annually. Other intangible assets are tested if there is an indication of impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement. Value in use is estimated 
based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
I. INVENTORIES
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (on a first in, first out basis) and net realisable value. For work-in-progress and finished goods, cost 
includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
J. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the date of 
acquisition. Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Essentra’s cash management and are included as part of cash and 
cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
K. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost (which is equal to fair value at inception) and are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method. Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or 
redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
L. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
M. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
N. CATALOGUE COSTS
The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received to  
those goods.
O. INCOME TAX
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
98 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not 
deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and 
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is determined 
using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet dates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
P . REVENUE
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of expected warranty claims when the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership have been transferred to the customer.
The majority of the Group’s businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, where the Group as seller makes its goods ready for collection at its 
premises on an agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs all transportation and handling costs and bears the risks for bringing the goods to 
their chosen destination. The Group operates non ex-works terms with customers in some of its businesses, and in these businesses, revenue is 
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. These terms include some consignment 
stock agreements, where revenue is recognised when the customer removes the goods from consignment stock.
Q. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
R. SEGMENT REPORTING
A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee (refer to Corporate 
Governance Report) in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance. 
S. PENSIONS
(i) Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit schemes
The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future 
benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present 
value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that 
have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Essentra’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using 
the projected unit credit method. Net interest on defined benefit assets is presented within finance income, and net interest on defined benefit 
liabilities is presented within finance expense.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost (including curtailments) and gains and losses  
on settlement. 
The value of a net pension asset is limited to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from  
the scheme.
T. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Essentra operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans. A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of option 
awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price information with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and vesting date of the options. The amount recognised as 
an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of options that fail to vest because market 
conditions are not met.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 99 ACCOUNTING POLICIES U. ONE-OFF ITEMS IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
The exceptional operating items below are separated from other items by virtue of their size and incidence (considered for each operating 
segment). They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain  
a proper understanding of the financial information and performance. These items exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets which are 
also presented separately in the income statement.
(i) Acquisition fees
In 2013 and 2012, Essentra incurred significant one-off costs (such as professional fees) as a result of the various acquisitions and transactions 
that did not complete (refer to note 23). 
(ii) Acquisition integration and restructuring costs
Costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with acquisitions.
(iii) Other exceptional items
In 2013, this represents costs incurred in relation to rebranding of the Group to Essentra, an adjustment on contingent deferred consideration  
in relation to a previous acquisition and Extrusion restructuring. In 2012, this represents a release of pension obligations in the Extrusion business 
and costs arising from further reconfiguration of the Group.
V.  INVESTMENT IN OWN SHARES
The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are treated as 
belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings. The cost of shares held directly (treasury shares) are also deducted  
from retained earnings.
W. PROVISIONS
A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the outflow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation. The outflow is the present value of management’s best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
X. GOVERNMENT GRANTS
Government grants are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the grants will be received and that all related conditions will be met, 
usually on submission of a valid claim for payment. Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are included within the carrying amount 
of the related property, plant and equipment, and are released to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the 
relevant assets. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to profit or loss so as to match them with the expenditure to which they relate.
Y. NET DEBT
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
Z. DIVIDENDS
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company (final dividend)  
or paid (interim dividend).
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
100 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation 
required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The Directors believe that the 
financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Essentra’s performance and financial 
position. 
(i) Pensions
Essentra accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19. The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of 
judgement in relation to the assumptions used and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes (see note 18). In consultation 
with Essentra’s actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Essentra’s circumstances. 
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations. The Group performs a sensitivity analysis for the 
significant assumptions used in determining post-retirement costs and liabilities, as detailed in note 18.
(ii) Intangible assets
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods used to value such intangible 
assets require the use of estimates. Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful 
lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, along with the finite lived intangible assets and other assets of the Group’s 
cash generating units. Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including discount rates, timing and 
growth prospects) which are inherently subjective. The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in respect of the tests for impairment,  
as detailed in note 9.
The useful lives of the Group’s finite lived intangible assets are reviewed following the tests for impairment annually.
(iii) Taxation
Accruals for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each of the 
jurisdictions in which it operates. Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment 
of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments. The Group performs appropriate 
sensitivity analysis in respect of taxation judgements that are materially sensitive as they arise.
(iv) Provisions 
Essentra’s provisions are management’s best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive obligation  
as a result of a past event, based on currently available information. By their nature these provisions are judgemental, reflecting 
management’s assessment of factors such as likelihood of product returns and warranty claims, and possible amounts involved.  
The Group performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of provision judgements that are materially sensitive as they arise.
(v) Depreciation 
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Group. Therefore, the estimates and assumptions 
made to determine their carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Group’s financial position and performance.
The charge in respect of depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected  
residual value at the end of its life. Decreasing an asset’s expected life or its residual value would result in a higher depreciation charge in  
the income statement.
The useful lives of the Group’s assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed at least annually for 
appropriateness. The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact 
their life, such as changes in technology. Historically changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material changes to the 
Group’s depreciation charge.
(vi) Valuation of trade receivables 
Valuation of trade receivables includes estimates of provision for impairment losses. The Group considers various relevant factors in arriving 
at these estimates, including the financial standing and circumstances of the customers, status of any claims or disputes, and wider 
economic risks such as country specific risks. These estimates and their movements are disclosed in note 1.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 101 ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE NOTES
1. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Essentra’s activities expose the business to a number of key financial risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its  
business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for Essentra’s system of internal control and financial risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness  
of this system. Such a system can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Essentra has a centralised treasury function to manage funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk. Treasury 
policies are approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of derivatives that may be employed and the 
criteria for investing and borrowing cash. Essentra uses derivatives only to manage currency and interest rate risk arising from underlying business 
activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. The treasury function is subject to periodic independent reviews by the Group 
Assurance department. Underlying policy assumptions and activities are reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant 
combination of geographical presence, expertise and suitable credit rating. 
The following describes Essentra’s financial risk exposure and management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial asset or liability fails to meet its contractual obligations,  
and arises principally from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Essentra has no significant individual concentrations of credit  
risk. The following is an overview of how Essentra manages its credit risk exposures.
Trade and other receivables
Essentra’s exposure to credit risk is driven by the profile of its customers. This is influenced by the demographics of the customer base, including 
the industry and country in which customers operate. Trade and other receivables are generally due from customers who are unlikely to seek 
credit ratings as part of their normal course of business. 
Essentra monitors significant customers’ credit limits and there is an allowance for impairment that represents the estimate of potential  
losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The components of this allowance are a specific allowance for individual losses and a collective 
allowance for losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective allowance takes account of historical experience and the  
profile of customers.
As at 31 December 2013, gross trade receivables were £130.7m (2012: £85.4m) of which £19 .4m (2012: £13.2m) were past due but not impaired. 
The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows:
2013
£m
2012 
£m
Up to 3 months 19.4 13.2
As at 31 December 2013, trade receivables of £5.7m (2012: £4.9m) were provided for as they were considered to be impaired. The ageing of the 
impaired receivables provided for is as follows:
2013
£m
2012 
£m
Up to 3 months 2.1 3.6
Over 3 months 3.6 1.3
5.7 4.9
The movement in the provision for impaired receivables is as follows:
2013
£m
2012 
£m
Beginning of year 4.9 6.7
Impaired receivables acquired 1.5 –
Impairment loss recognised 0.6 –
Release in the year (0.4) (1.3)
Utilisation (0.9) (0.5)
End of year 5.7 4.9
102 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative assets
Credit risk with respect to derivatives is controlled by limiting transactions to major banking counterparties where internationally agreed 
standard form documentation exists. The credit ratings of these counterparties are monitored.
Cash and cash equivalents
Credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents is monitored daily, on a counterparty by counterparty basis. The credit limits imposed specify  
the maximum amount of cash which can be invested in, or with, any single counterparty. These limits are determined by geographic presence, 
expertise and credit rating. Essentra monitors the credit ratings of counterparties.
The following credit risk table provides information regarding the credit risk exposure of Essentra by classifying derivative assets and cash and 
cash equivalents according to credit ratings of the counterparties. AAA is the highest possible rating and all of the assets are neither impaired  
nor past due.
2013
AAA 
£m
AA 
£m
A 
£m
BBB 
£m
BB 
£m
Not rated 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative assets – – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents – 9.5 29.0 3.6 0.6 1.4 44.1
– 9.5 29.2 3.6 0.6 1.4 44.3
2012
AAA 
£m
AA 
£m
A 
£m
BBB 
£m
BB 
£m
Not rated 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative assets – – 0.3 – – – 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 9.1 27.5 2.6 – 1.0 41.4
1.2 9.1 27.8 2.6 – 1.0 41.7
Essentra’s maximum credit risk exposure is £180.3m (2012: £131.9m) and no collateral is held against this amount (2012: £nil).
(ii) Market price risk
Market price risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect income or the value of financial assets and 
liabilities. Essentra has produced a sensitivity analysis that shows the estimated change to the income statement and equity of a 1%, 5% or  
10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all other currencies or an increase or decrease of 50 basis points (“bps”), 100bps and 200bps 
in market interest rates. The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates and actual results in the future may materially differ. 
Essentra is exposed to two types of market price risk: currency risk and interest rate risk.
a) Currency risk
Essentra publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling but conducts business in several foreign currencies. Therefore it is subject to 
currency risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the translation of results and underlying net assets of its operations and their 
transaction costs. 
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The majority of Essentra’s net assets are in currencies other than sterling. The Company’s normal policy is to limit the translation exposure and 
the resulting impact on shareholders’ funds through measures such as borrowing in those currencies in which the Group has significant net 
assets. At 31 December 2013, Essentra’s euro denominated assets were 82% hedged by its euro denominated borrowings (2012: 90%), whilst  
its US dollar denominated assets were approximately 45% (2012: 47%) hedged by the US dollar denominated borrowings.
Transaction exposure hedging
The majority of Essentra’s transactions are carried out in the functional currencies of its operations and therefore transaction exposure is limited. 
However, where such exposure does occur, Essentra uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge its exposure to movements in exchange 
rates on its highly probable forecast foreign currency sales and purchases over a period of up to 18 months. 
Essentra does not formally define the proportion of highly probable forecast sales and purchases to hedge, but agrees an appropriate percentage 
on an individual basis with each business by reference to the Group’s risk management policies and prevailing market conditions. The Group 
documents currency derivatives used to hedge its forecast transactions as cash flow hedges. To the extent that cash flow hedges are effective, 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point the gains and losses are 
transferred either to the income statement or to the non-financial asset acquired.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 103 NOTES 1. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
The following table shows Essentra’s sensitivity to a 1%, 5% and 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all currencies.  
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year all currencies’ average rates have been increased or decreased by 1%,  
5% or 10%. The translational effect on equity is limited as a proportion of US dollar and euro exposure is hedged. Accordingly the effect  
on equity is calculated by increasing or decreasing the closing rate of all currencies with an adjustment for the movement in currency  
hedges. It is assumed that all net investment and cash flow hedges will be 100% effective.
Weakening in sterling
2013
Strengthening in sterling
10% 
£m
5% 
£m
1% 
£m
1% 
£m
5% 
£m
10% 
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 7.9 3.8 0.7 (0.7) (3.4) (6.5)
Impact on equity – gain / (loss) 29.4 13.9 2.7 (2.6) (12.6) (24.0)
Weakening in sterling
2012
Strengthening in sterling
10%  
£m
5%  
£m
1%  
£m
1%  
£m
5%  
£m
10%  
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 6.8 3.2 0.6 (0.6) (2.9) (5.6)
Impact on equity – gain / (loss) 24.6 11.6 2.2 (2.2) (10.5) (20.1)
b) Interest rate risk
Essentra’s strategy is to ensure with a reasonable degree of certainty that at least 50% of the overall net finance expense is protected against 
material adverse movements in interest rates using fixed interest rate debt, interest rate swaps and caps. 
The following table shows Essentra’s sensitivity to a 50bps, 100bps and 200bps decrease or increase in sterling, US dollar and euro interest  
rates. To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all external floating rate interest bearing loans and 
borrowings have been increased or decreased by 50bps, 100bps or 200bps and the resulting increase or decrease in the net interest charge  
has been adjusted for the effect of Essentra’s interest rate derivatives. There is no impact on amounts recorded directly in other comprehensive 
income or equity. 
Decrease in interest rates
2013
Increase in interest rates
200bps 
£m
100bps  
£m
50bps 
£m
50bps  
£m
100bps  
£m
200bps  
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 3.1 1.5 0.8 (0.8) (1.5) (3.1)
Decrease in interest rates
2012  
Increase in interest rates
200bps  
£m
100bps 
£m
50bps  
£m
50bps  
£m
100bps  
£m
200bps  
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 2.2 1.1 0.5 (0.5) (1.1) (2.2)
See note 14 for interest rate disclosure on loans and borrowings.
(iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Essentra, although solvent, will encounter difficulties in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that 
are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
In 2011 Essentra signed an agreement with a syndicate of relationship banks to provide new banking facilities until August 2016. This facility 
replaced its existing facilities which expired in April 2012. Fees of £3.1m paid in respect of these facilities have been included within the carrying 
amount of the borrowings and are being expensed in the income statement over the expected life of the facilities in accordance with the 
effective interest method. 
104 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED Essentra’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility. Essentra is mostly funded by two series of US$80m 
US Private Placement Loan Notes from various financial institutions and syndicated 5-year revolving credit facilities of £165.6m and €187 .7m 
from its bankers. The two series of Loan Notes of US$80m have maturities of seven and ten years and the revolving credit facilities mature in 
August 2016. At 31 December 2013 the available bank and non-bank facilities totalled £418.4m (2012: £416.4m) of which £249 .7m (2012: 
£207 .4m) was drawn down. In addition, uncommitted and overdraft facilities are maintained to provide short-term flexibility. During the year, 
Essentra issued a total of 21,142,613 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 675p per share, raising gross proceeds of £142.7m, to fund  
the acquisition of Contego (see note 23).
Amounts drawn by Essentra on its committed facilities are subject to standard banking covenants.
Essentra’s available undrawn committed facilities at 31 December were:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Expiring after two years 168.7 209.0
Any loans drawn on these facilities would bear interest at floating rates with reference to LIBOR for the currency and period of the loan.
The maturity of Essentra’s financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments, is analysed below.
2013
Fair value
£m
Carrying  
amount
£m
Contractual  
cash flows
£m
<1 yr
£m
1-2 yrs
£m
2-5 yrs
£m
>5 yrs
£m
Unsecured bank loans 162.6 162.6 170.6 8.7 2.8 159.1 –
Loan Notes 105.7 95.5 123.9 5.4 5.4 60.6 52.5
Derivative liabilities 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 – – –
Trade and other payables 95.2 95.2 95.2 95.2 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 3.1 3.1 3.5 0.8 2.7 – –
Other non-current financial liabilities 
– Deferred contingent consideration 5.4 5.4 5.4 – 2.1 3.3 –
372.3 362.1 398.9 110.4 13.0 223.0 52.5
2012
Fair value
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Contractual  
cash flows
£m
<1 yr 
£m
1-2 yrs
£m
2-5 yrs
£m
>5 yrs
£m
Unsecured bank loans 107.8 107.8 116.1 1.9 1.9 112.3 –
Loan Notes 111.7 97.1 131.8 5.5 5.5 64.4 56.4
Derivative liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 – – –
Trade and other payables 66.7 66.7 66.7 66.7 – – –
286.4 271.8 314.8 74.3 7.4 176.7 56.4
Total trade and other payables carried at £135.1m (2012: £100.9m) include accruals and deferred income of £34.2m (2012: £29 .6m) and other 
taxes and social security contributions of £5.7m (2012: £4.6m) which are not financial liabilities and are therefore excluded from the above 
analysis. All trade and other payables are due to be settled in less than six months. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 105 NOTES 1. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Total financial assets and liabilities
The table below sets out Essentra’s accounting categories and fair value for each class of financial asset and liability.
2013 2012
Fair  
value 
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Amortised  
cost
£m
Total  
carrying  
and fair  
value 
£m
Fair  
value 
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Amortised  
cost
£m
Total  
carrying  
and fair  
value 
£m
Trade and other receivables – 136.0 – 136.0 – 90.2 – 90.2
Cash and cash equivalents – 44.1 – 44.1 – 41.4 – 41.4
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – (261.2) (261.2) – – (204.9) (204.9)
Trade and other payables – – (94.4) (94.4) – – (65.5) (65.5)
Level 2 of fair value hierarchy
Derivative assets 0.2 – – 0.2 0.3 – – 0.3
Derivative liabilities (0.3) – – (0.3) (0.2) – – (0.2)
Level 3 of fair value hierarchy
Other non-current financial liabilities (5.4) – – (5.4) – – – –
Other current payables (0.8) – – (0.8) (1.2) – – (1.2)
(6.3) 180.1 (355.6) (181.8) (1.1) 131.6 (270.4) (139.9)
Total trade and other receivables carried at £140.7m (2012: £94.5m) include prepayments and accrued income of £4.7m (2012: £4.3m) which  
are not financial assets and are therefore excluded from the above analysis. Fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency 
swaps have been calculated at year end forward exchange rates compared to contracted rates. These are determined to be level 2 in the fair 
value hierarchy.
The only financial instrument with fair value determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, which is classified as level 3 in the fair 
value hierarchy, is the deferred contingent consideration of £6.2m relating to the acquisitions of Ulinco Components and Mesan Kilit A.S. (2012: 
deferred contingent consideration of £1.2m relating to the acquisition of Reid Supply Company). The fair value of the deferred contingent 
consideration is estimated based on an assessment of the likely outcome of the acquired business’ financial performance. There have been no 
transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy. There are no non-recurring fair value measurements. During the year, a fair value gain of 
£0.8m in respect of financial instruments at level 3 fair value hierarchy was recognised within exceptional items (see note 3), and £0.4m was 
settled in cash. No other fair value gains or losses were recorded in profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
Included within interest bearing loans and borrowings are $160m US Private Placement Loan Notes. The Loan Notes are held at amortised cost 
with a carrying value of £95.5m (2012: £97 .1m). The Group estimates that the total fair value of the Loan Notes at 31 December 2013 is £105.7m 
(2012: £111.7m).
All other financial assets, classified as ‘loans and receivables’, and trade and other payables, classified as ‘amortised cost’, are held at amortised 
cost and have short terms to maturity. For this reason, their carrying amounts at the reporting date approximate the fair values. Unsecured  
bank loans, included within interest bearing loans and borrowings, incur interest at floating rates and as a result their carrying amounts also 
approximate fair values at the reporting date. 
The table below shows the amount of bank overdrafts offset against the bank balances under enforceable master netting agreements  
with banks: 
Gross amount of 
 recognised  
financial assets 
£m
Gross amount of  
recognised financial liabilities  
set off in the balance sheet 
£m
Net amount of financial  
assets presented in  
the balance sheet
£m
Cash and cash equivalents:
At 31 December 2013 45.8 (1.7) 44.1
At 31 December 2012 49.9 (8.5) 41.4
106 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED (iv) Capital structure
Essentra defines its capital structure as its equity and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings, and aims to manage this to safeguard 
its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
Essentra sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. Essentra manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of 
changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, Essentra 
may return capital to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
Essentra monitors its capital structure on the basis of the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio. EBITDA is defined as operating profit before 
depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment, share option expense, intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items. Net debt is adjusted to exclude prepaid facility fees. During 2013, Essentra’s strategy, which was unchanged from 2012, was  
to maintain the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio in the range 1.0 to 2.5. The net debt-to-EBITDA ratios at 31 December were:
Note
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
 £m
Net debt excluding prepaid facility fees 218.6 166.0
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 130.4 104.5
Plus depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 8 28.0 22.6
Plus share option expense 18 5.1 4.0
EBITDA 163.5 131.1
Net debt-to-EBITDA ratio 1.34 1.27
2. SEGMENT ANALYSIS
In accordance with IFRS 8, Essentra has determined its operating segments based upon the information reported to the Group Management 
Committee. These segments are as follows:
Component & Protection Solutions consists of a Component Distribution business and a Pipe Protection Technologies business. Component 
Distribution is a global market leading manufacturer and distributor of plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip moulded, and metal items. The Pipe 
Protection Technologies business specialises in the manufacture of high performance innovative products from commodity resins to engineering-
grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys. 
Porous Technologies is a global market leading developer and manufacturer of custom fluid handling components, engineered from a portfolio 
of technologies that includes bonded and non-woven fibre, polyurethane foam, and porous plastic. 
Packaging & Securing Solutions is a global market leading provider of packaging and securing solutions through a range of cartons, tapes, 
leaflets, foils and labels for the healthcare, consumer and specialist packaging, point of sale and paper & board industries. The division is also  
a leading supplier of authentication technologies and identity solutions.
Filter Products is an independent cigarette filter manufacturer supplying a wide range of value adding high quality innovative filters, packaging 
solutions to the roll your own sector and analytical laboratory services for ingredient measurement for the industry.
Other represents Extrusion which is a leading custom profile extruder located in The Netherlands offering a complete design and  
production service. 
 
On 1 January 2013, Essentra implemented a new organisational structure for its previous Protection & Finishing Products division. From 1 January 
2013, the Component Distribution businesses, together with Pipe Protection Technologies, have been reported together as the renamed 
“Component & Protection Solutions division” . The Speciality Tapes activities now form part of the Packaging & Securing Solutions division. The 
results for the year ended 31 December 2012 have been restated to reflect this change and the impact of adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011).
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 107 NOTES 2. SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED
2013
Component 
& Protection 
Solutions 
£m
Porous  
Technologies 
£m
Packaging 
& Securing 
Solutions 
£m
Filter  
Products 
£m
Other
£m
Eliminations 
£m
Central 
Services
1
£m
Continuing  
operations 
£m
Discontinued  
operations 
£m
Total 
£m
External revenue 223.4 98.7 181.3 269.9 24.8 – – 798.1 – 798.1
Intersegment revenue 0.3 1.3 0.5 – – (2.1) – – – –
Total revenue 223.7 100.0 181.8 269.9 24.8 (2.1) – 798.1 – 798.1
Operating profit / (loss) 
before intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional operating 
items 52.6 23.5 30.2 40.1 1.5 – (17.5) 130.4 – 130.4
Intangible amortisation (5.2) (2.2) (6.8) – – – – (14.2) – (14.2)
Exceptional operating 
items (2.8) (0.9) (13.8) (0.2) (0.3) – (1.2) (19.2) – (19.2)
Operating profit / (loss) 44.6 20.4 9.6 39.9 1.2 – (18.7) 97.0 – 97.0
Segment assets 120.8 65.0 113.5 115.4 13.5 – 1.7 429.9 – 429.9
Intangible assets 136.7 46.0 206.9 – 6.8 – 0.3 396.7 – 396.7
Unallocated items – – – – – – 76.6 76.6 – 76.6
Total assets 257.5 111.0 320.4 115.4 20.3 – 78.6 903.2 – 903.2
Segment liabilities 39.6 10.5 40.5 39.7 2.5 – 20.8 153.6 2.3 155.9
Unallocated items – – – – – – 346.6 346.6 – 346.6
Total liabilities 39.6 10.5 40.5 39.7 2.5 – 367.4 500.2 2.3 502.5
Other segment items
Capital expenditure 12.3 2.7 5.0 21.6 1.7 – 0.8 44.1 – 44.1
Depreciation 7.1 3.2 5.9 8.9 1.4 – 0.2 26.7 – 26.7
Average number of 
employees 1,413 611 1,264 1,494 199 – 47 5,028 – 5,028
1
  Central Services includes group finance, tax, treasury, legal, group assurance, human resources, information technology, corporate development, corporate 
affairs and other services provided centrally to support the operating segments
Continuing operations’ net finance expense of £10.6m (2012: £10.7m) and income tax expense of £26.1m (2012: £22.8m) cannot be meaningfully 
allocated by segment. The unallocated assets relate to deferred tax assets, retirement benefit assets, derivatives and cash and cash equivalents. 
The unallocated liabilities relate to interest bearing loans and borrowings, retirement benefit obligations, derivatives, deferred tax liabilities and 
income tax payable. Intersegment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis.
No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue in either 2013 or 2012. Analysed by destination, revenue to the UK is £97 .7m (2012: 
£67 .8m), with other significant countries being the USA with revenue of £194.9m (2012: £181.4m), China £48.7m (2012: £31.1m) and Germany 
£41.9m (2012: £31.1m). Non-current assets in the UK total £242.6m (2012: £76.7m), with the other significant location being the USA with 
£198.7m (2012: £203.1m).
Included within revenue is the net loss arising from the change in the fair value of forward exchange cash flow hedges transferred to the income 
statement of £0.1m (2012: net gain of £1.1m).
 
108 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 2012
(Restated)
Component 
& Protection 
Solutions 
£m
Porous 
Technologies  
£m
Packaging 
& Securing 
Solutions
£m
Filter  
Products 
£m
Other  
£m
Eliminations 
£m
Central 
Services
1
 
£m
Continuing 
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
Total 
£m
External revenue 208.4 83.4 114.6 233.6 23.4 – – 663.4 – 663.4
Intersegment revenue – 2.4 0.3 – – (2.7) – – – –
Total revenue 208.4 85.8 114.9 233.6 23.4 (2.7) – 663.4 – 663.4
Operating profit / (loss) 
before intangible 
amortisation and exceptional 
operating items 45.9 20.6 21.8 28.6 1.6 – (14.0) 104.5 – 104.5
Intangible amortisation (4.7) (1.6) (2.0) – – – – (8.3) – (8.3)
Exceptional operating items (7.5) (2.1) (1.7) – 1.6 – (0.9) (10.6) – (10.6)
Operating profit / (loss) 33.7 16.9 18.1 28.6 3.2 – (14.9) 85.6 – 85.6
Segment assets 109.7 60.8 62.7 105.0 12.1 – 1.2 351.5 – 351.5
Intangible assets 100.5 47.0 52.2 – 6.6 – – 206.3 – 206.3
Unallocated items – – – – – – 69.5 69.5 – 69.5
Total assets 210.2 107.8 114.9 105.0 18.7 – 70.7 627.3 – 627.3
Segment liabilities 36.5 11.8 15.2 43.1 1.7 – 10.6 118.9 2.3 121.2
Unallocated items – – – – – – 262.4 262.4 – 262.4
Total liabilities 36.5 11.8 15.2 43.1 1.7 – 273.0 381.3 2.3 383.6
Other segment items
Capital expenditure 18.1 3.3 6.7 14.2 1.3 – 0.2 43.8 – 43.8
Depreciation 7.0 3.1 4.1 7.0 1.3 – 0.1 22.6 – 22.6
Average number  
of employees 1,429 551 594 1,263 207 – 38 4,082 – 4,082
1
  Central Services includes group finance, tax, treasury, legal, group assurance, human resources, information technology, corporate development and other 
services provided centrally to support the operating segments
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 109 NOTES 3. NET OPERATING EXPENSE 
Note
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 5.0 (4.0)
Raw materials and consumables 336.1 289.1
Personnel expense 6 179.7 150.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8 26.7 22.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 14.2 8.3
Exceptional operating items 19.2 10.6
Operating lease expense 6.7 5.3
Exchange differences recognised in profit or loss 0.3 0.2
Other operating expenses 113.2 95.5
Net operating expense 701.1 577.8
No income or expense (2012: £nil) was recognised in operating expense during the year in respect of ineffective cash flow hedges. Essentra’s 
hedges of net investments were also entirely effective in 2013 and 2012, as defined by IAS 39 , and therefore no hedge ineffectiveness has been 
recognised in net operating expense in 2013 (2012: £nil). Research and development expenses (including relevant staff costs) incurred during  
the year amounted to £8.3m (2012: £8.0m). 
Other operating expenses include manufacturing, selling, general and administrative overheads.
Exceptional operating items
2013
£m
2012
£m
Acquisition fees
1
4.7 1.2
Acquisition integration and restructuring costs
2
12.6 8.8
Other
3
1.9 0.6
Net operating expense 19.2 10.6
1
  Transaction costs incurred during the year in respect of the acquisitions of Ulinco, Contego, Dakota and Mesan, as well as transactions that did not 
complete (2012: acquisitions of Securit, Jae Yong and Lymtech)
2
  Acquisition integration and restructuring costs incurred during the year associated with the acquisitions of Richco, Ulinco, Contego, Dakota and Mesan 
(2012: Richco, Securit, Jae Yong and Lymtech)
3
  Other exceptional items incurred during the year, which comprise £2.4m relating to costs incurred in relation to rebranding of the Group to Essentra, a 
£0.8m credit adjustment for contingent deferred consideration in relation to the acquisition of Reid Supply Company, and £0.3m relating to Extrusion 
restructuring (2012: a release of pension obligations in Extrusion (£1.7m) and costs arising from further reconfiguration of the Group)
4
 The tax effect of the exceptional items is a credit of £2.8m (2012: £2.4m)
Auditor’s remuneration 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Audit of these financial statements 0.3 0.3
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.7 0.5
Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2
Other tax advisory services – 0.1
Corporate finance services
2
– 0.2
Other services
1,4
0.1 0.1
Total fees
3
1.3 1.4
1
 Fees for other services related principally to the review of the half year financial statements
2
  The Company believes that, given their detailed knowledge of Essentra’s operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance of carrying 
out detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for certain audit-related work to be carried out by the Company’s auditor 
rather than another firm of accountants. The Audit Committee, which consists of independent Non-Executive Directors, reviews and approves the level and 
nature of non-audit work which the auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring that the auditor’s objectivity and independence is 
not compromised
3
 £0.1m (2012: £0.2m) of the total non-audit fees were charged in the UK
4
 Fees of £22,182 (2012: £22,182) were paid in relation to the audit of the Essentra pension schemes
110 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 4. NET FINANCE EXPENSE
Note
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Finance income
Bank deposits 0.2 0.3
Other finance income – 0.5
Net interest on net pension scheme assets 18 0.8 0.3
1.0 1.1
Finance expense
Interest on loans and overdrafts (9.4) (9.2)
Amortisation of bank facility fees (1.0) (1.3)
Other finance expense (0.3) (0.1)
Net interest on net pension scheme liabilities 18 (0.9) (1.2)
(11.6) (11.8)
Net finance expense (10.6) (10.7)
5. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Note
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Amounts charged / (credited) in the consolidated income statement
Current tax 29.3 20.0
Prior years’ tax (0.6) (0.1)
Double tax relief – (0.2)
Deferred tax 16 (2.6) 3.1
Income tax expense 26.1 22.8
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Deferred tax credit on actuarial movements on defined benefit pension schemes (3.1) (1.2)
Income tax (credit) / charge on effective net investment hedges – (1.6)
Income tax credit (3.1) (2.8)
Factors affecting income tax expense for the year
Essentra operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions. Essentra calculates its average expected tax rate 
as a weighted average of the national corporate income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Profit before income tax 86.4 74.9
Tax at weighted average (2013: 28.8%; 2012: 25.3%) 24.9 18.9
Effects of:
Other permanent disallowable items 2.1 1.3
Overseas state and local tax 0.8 0.6
Unrelieved tax losses 1.3 0.7
Prior year adjustments (2.1) (0.1)
Other items (0.9) 1.4
Income tax expense 26.1 22.8
The change in the weighted average applicable tax rate is caused by a change in the geographical balance of the Group’s profits and by changes 
in corporate tax rates in these geographies. Income tax expense in the UK is £0.7m (2012: £3.1m). The UK corporate tax rate reduced from 24% to 
23% on 1 April 2013 and a further reduction in the rate to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 has been enacted. The impact of these enacted 
changes on deferred tax is not material. The UK Government has announced its intention to further reduce the rate to 20% from 1 April 2015.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 111 NOTES 6. PERSONNEL EXPENSE
Note
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Wages and salaries 151.0 127.3
Social security expense 18.0 14.2
Pension expense 18 5.6 4.7
Share option expense 18 5.1 4.0
179.7 150.2
The Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 67 to 84 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1 sets out information on Directors’ remuneration.
Key management remuneration
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term employee benefits 4.9 4.8
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5
Share-based payments 3.1 2.5
Termination benefits – 0.3
8.5 8.1
Essentra considers key management personnel to be the Directors and the members of the Group Management Committee. The amounts 
disclosed are on the same basis as those used to determine the relevant amounts disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
7 . EARNINGS PER SHARE
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
£m
Continuing operations
Earnings attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc 60.1 50.8
Adjustments
Intangible amortisation 14.2 8.3
Exceptional operating items 19.2 10.6
33.4 18.9
Tax relief on adjustments (6.8) (4.8)
Adjusted earnings 86.7 64.9
Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue (m) 228.2 209.0
Dilutive effect of employee share option plans (m) 6.1 7.1
Diluted weighted average ordinary shares (m) 234.3 216.1
Continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 26.3p 24.3p
Adjustment 11.7p 6.8p
Adjusted earnings per share 38.0p 31.1p
Diluted basic earnings per share 25.7p 23.5p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 37.0p 30.0p
As noted on page 19 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1 adjusted earnings per share is provided to reflect the underlying earnings performance  
of Essentra.
The basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes shares held in treasury and shares held by an employee benefit trust. 
112 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
2013
Note
Land and  
buildings
£m
Plant and  
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 87.2 282.1 44.1 413.4
Acquisitions 23 2.7 21.7 1.5 25.9
Additions 4.5 28.6 8.4 41.5
Disposals (0.2) (6.1) (1.8) (8.1)
Currency translation (1.9) (8.4) (0.4) (10.7)
End of year 92.3 317.9 51.8 462.0
Depreciation and impairment
Beginning of year 24.3 178.0 30.8 233.1
Depreciation charge for the year 2.0 21.1 3.6 26.7
Impairment charge 0.3 0.9 0.1 1.3
Disposals (0.1) (6.0) (1.5) (7.6)
Currency translation (0.7) (4.1) (0.4) (5.2)
End of year 25.8 189.9 32.6 248.3
Net book value at end of year 66.5 128.0 19.2 213.7
2012
Land and  
buildings
£m
Plant and  
machinery
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 82.8 262.7 42.2 387.7
Acquisitions 1.1 0.6 – 1.7
Additions 6.9 27.6 5.6 40.1
Disposals (0.7) (2.0) (0.8) (3.5)
Currency translation (2.9) (6.8) (2.9) (12.6)
End of year 87.2 282.1 44.1 413.4
Depreciation
Beginning of year 23.8 166.3 29.5 219.6
Depreciation charge for the year 2.3 17.4 2.9 22.6
Disposals (0.2) (1.8) (0.8) (2.8)
Currency translation (1.6) (3.9) (0.8) (6.3)
End of year 24.3 178.0 30.8 233.1
Net book value at end of year 62.9 104.1 13.3 180.3
Included within land and buildings and plant and machinery are assets in the course of construction of £2.6m (2012: £5.1m) which were not 
depreciated during the year.
The impairment charge recognised during the year primarily relates to write-down of plant and machinery and land and buildings as a result of 
the Group’s decision to withdraw from the manufacture and production of certain lower growth or margin, non-core products (including security 
and protection films and ID cards) at the Banbury site in the UK. This charge is attributable to the Packaging & Securing Solutions division.  
The recoverable amount is estimated on the basis of fair value less costs to sell, based on expected disposal proceeds.
Contractual commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment amounted to £3.0m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £0.7m). The net book 
value of assets under finance leases amounted to £4.2m as at 31 December 2013 (2012: nil).
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 113 NOTES 9 . INTANGIBLE ASSETS
2013
Note
Goodwill
£
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other
 intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 96.5 121.3 12.7 230.5
Acquisitions 23 101.1 104.4 1.7 207.2
Currency translation (1.4) (1.6) (0.2) (3.2)
End of year 196.2 224.1 14.2 434.5
Amortisation
Beginning of year – 21.0 3.2 24.2
Charge for the year – 12.1 2.1 14.2
Currency translation – (0.4) (0.2) (0.6)
End of year – 32.7 5.1 37.8
Net book value at end of year 196.2 191.4 9.1 396.7
2012
Goodwill
£
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other
 intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 86.4 104.0 11.7 202.1
Acquisitions 13.2 21.8 1.7 36.7
Currency translation (3.1) (4.5) (0.7) (8.3)
End of year 96.5 121.3 12.7 230.5
Amortisation
Beginning of year – 14.5 2.1 16.6
Charge for the year – 7.1 1.2 8.3
Currency translation – (0.6) (0.1) (0.7)
End of year – 21.0 3.2 24.2
Net book value at end of year 96.5 100.3 9.5 206.3
Other intangible assets principally comprise trade names acquired with Lendell and Reid Supply, developed technology acquired with Lendell, 
Richco and Lymtech, and order backlog.
The weighted average useful economic lives of customer relationships and other intangible assets at the end of the year were 15.2 years and  
14.4 years (2012: 17 .2 years and 14.6 years) respectively.
Essentra tests intangible assets annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment. A discounted cash flow 
analysis is computed to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of the goodwill and other 
intangible assets for each cash generating unit or group of cash generating units as appropriate.
114 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash generating units, being the operating segments, as follows:
Goodwill
Operating segment
2013
£m
2012
£m
Component & Protection Solutions
1
55.2 35.9
Porous Technologies 24.5 23.1
Packaging & Securing Solutions
1
109.7 30.9
Other – Extrusion 6.8 6.6
196.2 96.5
1
  2012 is restated to reflect that since 1 January 2013, the Speciality Tapes business, which was previously disclosed within Component & Protection Solutions, 
now forms part of Packaging & Securing Solutions
Intangible assets, apart from goodwill, are allocated to the businesses to which they relate as shown below:
Customer relationships and other intangible assets
Business Operating segment
2013
£m
2012
£m
Moss and Skiffy Component & Protection Solutions 16.1 16.6
Richco Component & Protection Solutions 34.6 38.1
Reid Supply Component & Protection Solutions 8.9 9.9
Mesan Component & Protection Solutions 18.8 –
Porous St. Charles Porous Technologies 5.3 6.2
Porous Chicopee Porous Technologies 14.1 15.5
Packaging Packaging & Securing Solutions 3.7 3.8
Speciality Tapes Packaging & Securing Solutions 14.0 15.5
Healthcare Packaging & Securing Solutions 78.4 –
Multiple businesses Multiple segments 6.6 4.2
200.5 109.8
The tests are based on the following assumptions:
 > Cash flows for the next two years are based upon the Group’s annual Plan. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections for the Group’s 
annual Plan are the revenue growth and operating margin for each division. Operating margin was primarily based on the levels achieved in 
2013, which are disclosed in note 2, adjusted by targets set for revenue expansion and cost reduction for each individual division within the  
Plan period. 
 
Cash flows beyond the Plan period are based on year two’s Plan cash flows with growth rates specific to each business which range from  
nil to 3%.
 > The estimated cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon Essentra’s estimated post-tax weighted average cost  
of capital of 8.6% (2012: 8.5%) adjusted for the risk applicable to each operating segment. In 2013, the pre-tax discount rates applied for each 
group of cash generating units to which significant goodwill is allocated are as follows: 16.0% for Component & Protection Solutions, 12.5%  
for Porous Technologies, 11.2% for Packaging & Securing Solutions and 11.2% for Other. In 2012, the pre-tax discount rates applied for each group 
of cash generating units to which significant goodwill is allocated were as follows: 16.2% for Protection & Finishing Products, 12.7% for Porous 
Technologies, 11.3% for Coated & Security Products and 11.3% for Other.
Any impairment losses identified as a result of the analysis are recognised in profit or loss. The test is dependent on management estimates  
and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, and the discount rate applied to these cash flows.
The Group performed various sensitivity analyses which involved reducing future cash flows by up to 25%, reducing terminal growth rates by  
up to 8 percentage points or increasing pre-tax discount rates by up to 100 basis points. The results of these analyses showed that, despite 
significantly lower post-tax operating cash flows or increased pre-tax discount rates, the value in use of goodwill and other intangible assets 
continued to exceed their carrying value.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 115 NOTES 10. INVENTORIES
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials and consumables 30.0 30.1
Work-in-progress 5.4 2.9
Finished goods and goods held for resale 40.1 43.7
75.5 76.7
During the year £1.1m of inventories was written down as a result of the Group’s decision to withdraw from the manufacture and production  
of certain lower growth or margin, non-core products at the Banbury site in the UK.
 
11. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 125.0 80.5
Other receivables 11.0 9.7
Prepayments and accrued income 4.7 4.3
140.7 94.5
12. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank balances 42.0 40.3
Short-term investments 2.1 1.1
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 44.1 41.4
13. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade payables 72.4 55.9
Other tax and social security contributions 5.7 4.6
Other payables 22.8 10.8
Accruals and deferred income 34.2 29.6
135.1 100.9
14. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 156.8 107.8
US Private Placement Loan Notes 95.5 97.1
Finance lease liabilities 2.4 –
254.7 204.9
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 5.8 –
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 –
6.5 –
116 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED At 31 December 2013, the Group had £90.0m (2012: £52.0m) and €76.0m (2012: €70.4m) of unsecured bank loans drawn in sterling and euros at 
floating rates of interest set by reference to LIBOR for three months. Essentra’s two $80m Loan Notes are at interest rate of 5.37% and 5.91% per 
annum respectively.
The currency profile of the carrying and nominal values of Essentra’s loans and borrowings is as follows:
2013 2012
Carrying value 
£m
Nominal value 
£m
Carrying value 
£m
Nominal value 
£m
Sterling 91.3 91.6 51.3 52.0
US dollar 96.0 96.9 97.1 98.2
Euro 73.9 74.2 56.5 57.2
261.2 262.7 204.9 207.4
The difference between the total nominal and carrying value of loans and borrowings relates to the amortised value of prepaid facility fees  
of £1.5m (2012: £2.5m).
15. DERIVATIVES
Essentra uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment 
activities. In accordance with its Treasury policy, Essentra does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 
Assets Liabilities
Fair  
values  
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m 
Fair  
values  
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
At 31 December 2013
Fair value derivatives
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 5.8 (0.1) 6.4
Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 10.9 (0.2) 4.6
0.2 16.7 (0.3) 11.0
Assets Liabilities
Fair  
values  
£m
Contractual or 
notional 
amounts
£m 
Fair  
values  
£m
Contractual or 
notional 
amounts
£m
At 31 December 2012
Fair value derivatives
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 6.8 – 6.0
Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 2.5 (0.2) 25.7
0.3 9.3 (0.2) 31.7
Fair value derivatives protect the Group from currency risk exposure from changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities  
or a previously unrecognised firm commitment to buy or sell assets at a fixed price. 
Cash flow hedges are hedges of the currency and interest rate risk exposure to variability in cash flows. 
Hedges of net investments are hedges of the currency risk exposure to changes in the carrying value of recognised investments  
in foreign operations. 
The net fair value gains on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge foreign currency risk of anticipated future sales and 
purchases will be transferred to the income statement when the forecast sales and purchases occur. All of the hedged transactions  
are expected to occur over the next 15 months and all derivative instruments mature within the next 15 months.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 117 NOTES 15. DERIVATIVES CONTINUED
During 2013, Essentra had US dollar and euro denominated borrowings which it designated as hedges of its net investments in 
subsidiary undertakings. The exchange gains of £1.7m on the US dollar borrowings and the losses of £1.5m on the euro borrowings  
were recognised in other comprehensive income at 31 December 2013.
During 2012, Essentra had US dollar and euro denominated borrowings which it designated as hedges of its net investments in 
subsidiary undertakings. The exchange gains of £5.0m on the US dollar borrowings and the gains of £1.4m on the euro borrowings  
were recognised in other comprehensive income at 31 December 2012.
Finance income and expense arising on financial assets and financial liabilities held at amortised cost are those amounts, excluding 
interest on pension scheme assets and interest on pension scheme liabilities, detailed in note 4. 
16. DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
2013
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net
£m
Property, plant and equipment (2.2) 15.1 12.9
Intangible assets (0.5) 45.5 45.0
Employee benefits (12.0) 5.1 (6.9)
Other (16.6) 6.3 (10.3)
Tax (assets) / liabilities (31.3) 72.0 40.7
Set off of tax 24.9 (24.9) –
Net tax (assets) / liabilities (6.4) 47.1 40.7
2012
(Restated)
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net
£m
Property, plant and equipment (1.6) 16.0 14.4
Intangible assets – 23.7 23.7
Employee benefits (14.3) 4.1 (10.2)
Other (13.0) 0.3 (12.7)
Tax (assets) / liabilities (28.9) 44.1 15.2
Set off of tax 17.4 (17.4) –
Net tax (assets) / liabilities (11.5) 26.7 15.2
Movements in temporary differences in the year:
Note
2013
£m
2012 
(Restated)
£m
Beginning of year 15.2 7.2
(Credit) / charge to the income statement in respect of current year (1.8) 3.5
Credit to the income statement in respect of prior years (0.8) (0.4)
Charge to other comprehensive income on movements on defined benefit pension schemes 3.1 1.2
Credit to reserves on share-based incentives (1.0) (1.9)
Acquisitions 23 25.0 5.9
Currency translation 1.0 (0.3)
End of year 40.7 15.2
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where Essentra is able to control the 
remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the 
remittance. The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have 
not been recognised is £97 .4m as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £85.8m), and the associated amount of unrecognised deferred tax is £7 .6m (2012: 
£7 .1m). Deferred tax assets of £0.2m (2012: £0.2m) in respect of capital losses have not been recognised where their realisation is not considered 
probable. No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of unutilised tax losses of £24.6m (2012: £22.8m).
118 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 17 . PROVISIONS
2013
Note
Discontinued
£m
Reorganisation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 2.3 5.3 12.7 20.3
Provisions made during the year – 2.3 2.2 4.5
Provisions released during the year – – (5.9) (5.9)
Utilised during the year – (4.4) (2.1) (6.5)
Acquisitions 23 – 1.0 4.1 5.1
Transferred to accruals and other payables – (0.5) (1.5) (2.0)
Currency translation – (0.1) – (0.1)
End of year 2.3 3.6 9.5 15.4
Non-current – – 3.1 3.1
Current 2.3 3.6 6.4 12.3
2.3 3.6 9.5 15.4
2012
Discontinued 
£m
Reorganisation 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Beginning of year 2.4 2.9 9.7 15.0
Provisions made during the year – 4.1 5.1 9.2
Provisions released during the year – – (0.5) (0.5)
Utilised during the year – (1.6) (2.5) (4.1)
Acquisitions – – 0.4 0.4
Transferred from accruals and other payables – – 0.6 0.6
Currency translation (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3)
End of year 2.3 5.3 12.7 20.3
Non-current – 0.1 2.7 2.8
Current 2.3 5.2 10.0 17.5
2.3 5.3 12.7 20.3
Discontinued provisions relate to warranties made on the disposal of Globalpack. Reorganisation provisions are held against restructuring and 
redundancy costs, primarily related to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with acquisitions. Other provisions 
relate primarily to vacant properties, employees’ compensation claims, other claims and product warranties. Non-current provisions are generally 
long-term in nature with uncertain timing of utilisation. The release during the year relates mostly to claims and warranty liabilities.
18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
Post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes around the world covering many of its employees. 
The Group also has a number of other post-employment obligations in certain countries, some of which are required under local law.
The defined benefit plans are administered by boards of trustees and the assets are held independently from Essentra. The boards of trustees 
comprise member nominated trustees, employer nominated trustees and independent advisory trustees. The articles of the plans prohibit a 
majority on the boards to be established by either the member or employer nominated trustees.
Pension costs of the defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries. 
Full triennial actuarial valuations were carried out on the principal European defined benefit schemes as at 5 April 2012 and annual actuarial 
valuations are performed on the principal US defined benefit schemes. The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes have been 
updated to the balance sheet date from the most recent actuarial valuations taking account of the investment returns achieved by the 
schemes and the level of contributions.
The principal European defined benefit schemes entitle remaining members to a pension calculated on 1.25% or 2% of their capped final 
pensionable pay multiplied by the number of pensionable years of service. Some members have historical entitlements to accrual rates of 
1.67%-1.9% and 3% for certain tranches of their service. The principal US defined benefit schemes entitle certain participating employees to 
annuity benefits equal to 50% of final average pensionable salary, reduced for years of service less than 30, and other participating employees 
to annuity benefits equal to $49 per month for each year of service.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 119 NOTES 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Note
2013 
£m
2012
(Restated) 
£m
Amounts expensed against operating profit
Defined contribution schemes 3.2 2.4
Defined benefit schemes 2.4 2.3
Other post-employment obligations – –
Total operating expense 5.6 4.7
Amounts included in exceptional operating items
Settlement of pension obligations – (1.7)
Total credit to exceptional operating items – (1.7)
Amounts included as finance (income) / expense
Net interest on defined benefit scheme assets 4 (0.8) (0.3)
Net interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities 4 0.9 1.2
Net finance expense 0.1 0.9
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Return on defined benefit scheme assets excluding amounts in net finance income 10.8 7.4
Impact of changes in assumptions and experience to the present value of defined benefit 
scheme liabilities 0.4 (1.3)
Remeasurement of defined benefit schemes 11.2 6.1
In 2012 a defined benefit plan in the Group’s Extrusion business was closed resulting in an exceptional credit to the income statement.
 
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were:
2013 2012
Europe US Europe US
Increase in salaries (pre-2010)
1
3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Increase in salaries (post-2010)
1
3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Increase in pensions
1
at RPI capped at 5% 3.30% n/a 2.80% n/a
at CPI capped at 5% 2.40% n/a 2.20% n/a
at CPI minimum 3%, capped at 5% 3.30% n/a 3.30% n/a
at CPI capped at 2.5% 1.90% n/a 1.80% n/a
Discount rate 4.50% 4.90% 4.50% 4.10%
Inflation rate 2.90% n/a 2.50% n/a
1
  For service prior to April 2010, pension at retirement is linked to salary at retirement. For service after April 2010, pension is linked to salary at April 2010 with 
annual increases capped at 3%
Due to the timescale covered, the assumptions applied may not be borne out in practice. 
The life expectancy assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations at the year end are:
2013 2012 
Europe US Europe US
Male retiring today at age 65 22.3 19.3 21.3 19.2
Female retiring today at age 65 24.7 21.1 24.0 21.0
Male retiring in 20 years at age 65 24.2 19.3 23.2 19.2
Female retiring in 20 years at age 65 26.5 21.1 25.9 21.0
120 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED The allocation of assets between different classes of investment is reviewed regularly and is a key factor in the Trustees’ investment policies.  
The allocation of assets is arrived at taking into consideration current market conditions and trends, the size of potential returns relative to 
investment risk and the extent to which asset realisation needs to match liability maturity. There are risks underlying these considerations.  
If asset returns fall below the returns required for scheme assets to match the present value of scheme liabilities, a scheme deficit results. 
Persistent deficits represent an obligation the Group has to settle through increased cash contributions. If asset maturities are not properly 
matched with liability maturities, there is also the risk that the Group could be required to make unplanned short-term cash contributions to 
resolve resulting liquidity issues. Scheme assets are invested by the Trustees in asset classes and markets that are considered to be reasonably 
liquid, so this matching and liquidity risk is considered to be sufficiently mitigated.
The fair value of scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they  
are realised, and the present value of the scheme liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are therefore 
inherently uncertain, are: 
2013
Europe 
£m
US
£m
Total
£m
Equities 51% 91.8 62% 28.5 120.3
Corporate bonds 17% 31.4 34% 15.5 46.9
Government bonds 31% 56.4 0% – 56.4
Other 1% 1.2 4% 1.8 3.0
Fair value of scheme assets 180.8 45.8 226.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (158.9) (54.4) (213.3)
Net retirement benefit assets / (obligations) 21.9 (8.6) 13.3
2012
(Restated)
Europe 
£m
US
£m
Total
£m
Equities 51% 84.1 49% 20.6 104.7
Corporate bonds 19% 31.3 50% 20.9 52.2
Government bonds 29% 48.1 0% – 48.1
Other 1% 1.9 1% 0.3 2.2
Fair value of scheme assets 165.4 41.8 207.2
Present value of scheme liabilities (151.3) (59.8) (211.1)
Net retirement benefit assets / (obligations) 14.1 (18.0) (3.9)
The equity, corporate bond and government bond assets are either direct investments or investments made via a managed fund for those asset 
classes. All of these assets have a quoted market price in an active market. The other asset class relates primarily to property and hedge funds, 
which are valued at their cumulative unit offer price. No direct investment in property is held. No plan assets are invested directly in the shares  
of Essentra plc.
The average expected duration of the Group’s European defined benefit liability at 31 December 2013 is 20 years (2012: 21 years). The average 
expected duration of the Group’s US defined benefit liability at 31 December 2013 is 12.3 years (2012: 13.3 years).
The Group’s contributions to its defined benefit schemes are determined in consultation with trustees, taking into consideration actuarial advice, 
investment conditions and other local conditions and practices. In 2014, the Group expects to make defined benefit contributions of £2.8m to its 
European schemes and $3.8m to its US schemes.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 121 NOTES 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED
Movement in fair value of scheme assets / (liabilities) during the year
2013
2012 
(Restated)
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
assets  
£m
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
liabilities
£m
Other 
£m
Total
£m
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
assets
£m
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
liabilities
£m
Other 
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 207.2 (211.1) – (3.9) 198.8 (218.4) – (19.6)
Service cost and administrative expense (0.7) (1.7) – (2.4) (0.8) (1.5) – (2.3)
Employer contributions 8.5 – – 8.5 9.9 – – 9.9
Employee contributions 0.4 (0.4) – – 0.4 (0.4) – –
Return on plan assets excluding  
amounts in net finance income 10.8 – – 10.8 7.4 – – 7.4
Actuarial gains / (losses)  
arising from change in  
financial assumptions – 3.6 – 3.6 – (8.3) – (8.3)
Actuarial gains / (losses)  
arising from change  
in demographic assumptions – (2.6) – (2.6) – – – –
Actuarial gains / (losses)  
arising from experience  
adjustment – (0.6) – (0.6) – 7.0 – 7.0
Finance income / (expense) 9.2 (9.3) – (0.1) 8.8 (9.7) – (0.9)
Benefits paid (7.3) 7.3 – – (7.2) 7.2 – –
Settlements – – – – (7.9) 9.6 – 1.7
Currency translation (1.5) 1.5 – – (2.2) 3.4 – 1.2
Business combination – – (1.1) (1.1) – – – –
Other – – (1.6) (1.6) – – – –
End of year 226.6 (213.3) (2.7) 10.6 207.2 (211.1) – (3.9)
Sensitivity
For the significant assumptions used in determining defined benefit costs and liabilities, the following sensitivity analysis gives the estimate of the 
impact on the income statement and balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Scheme liabilities Annual service cost
Europe 
£m
US 
£m
Total 
£m
Europe
£m
US
£m
Total
£m
0.5% decrease in the discount rate (14.7) (3.4) (18.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
1.0% increase in the rate of inflation (10.6) n/a (10.6) – n/a –
1.0% increase in rate of salary / pension increases (4.7) (0.3) (5.0) – – –
1 year increase in life expectancy (3.8) (1.3) (5.1) – – –
0.5% increase in the discount rate 12.7 3.1 15.8 0.1 0.1 0.2
1.0% decrease in rate of salary / pension increases 4.4 0.3 4.7 0.1 – 0.1
1.0% decrease in the rate of inflation 9.1 n/a 9.1 0.1 n/a 0.1
122 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED Share-based incentives
Essentra operates equity-settled share-based incentive plans for its Executive Directors and employees. The total expense in respect of these 
plans during the year was £5.1m (2012: £4.0m). Details of these plans are set out below: 
Share options outstanding
2013
At 1 Jan  
2013
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Granted 
during 
the year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Lapsed 
during  
the year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercised 
during  
the year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
At 31 Dec 
2013
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercisable 
at 31 Dec 
2013
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
LTIP  
Part A 6,000,792 252.4p 483,069 692.0p (203,030) 414.0p (1,931,892) 181.7p 4,348,939 325.1p 857 ,930 184.1p
LTIP 
Part B 3,536,890 – 1,024,549 – (423,069) – (918,062) – 3,220,308 – 229,235 –
DASB 507,219 – 167,404 – (67,630) – (178,903) – 428,090 – – –
SAYE 3  
year plan 900,990 232.6p 256,578 495.0p (51,511) 354.2p (379 ,210) 159.9p 726,847 354.5p – – 
SAYE 5  
year plan 568,903 190.8p 67,032 495.0p (30,091) 330.4p (306,784) 156.7p 299,060 279.9p – –
11,514,794 1,998,632 (775,331) (3,714,851) 9,023,244 1,087,165
2012
At 1 Jan  
2012
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Granted 
during 
the year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Lapsed 
during  
the year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercised 
during  
the year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
At 31 Dec 
2012
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercisable at 
31 Dec 2012
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
LTIP  
Part A 8,259,704 229.3p 592,412 469 .2p (268,126) 281.6p (2,583,198) 225.0p 6,000,792 252.4p 910,381 209.3p
LTIP 
Part B 3,547,361 – 1,520,447 – (206,265) – (1,324,653) – 3,536,890 – – –
DASB 353,963 – 213,631 – – – (60,375) – 507,219 – – –
SAYE 3  
year plan 715,368 194.4p 242,309 354.2p (51,014) 274.2p (5,673) 245.0p 900,990 232.6p – –
SAYE 5  
year plan 537,243 173.8p 57 ,315 354.2p (13,574) 235.0p (12,081) 162.9p 568,903 190.8p – –
13,413,639 2,626,114 (538,979) (3,985,980) 11,514,794 910,381
The exercise prices of options outstanding at the end of the year range from nil to 692.0p.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 712.5p (2012: 479 .3p). The following table 
shows the weighted average fair value at the date of grant for options granted during the year:
LTIP 
Part A
LTIP
 Part B DASB
SAYE
 3 year 
plan
SAYE 
5 year
Plan
Year ended 31 December 2013 141.4p 534.7p 625.9p 210.4p 261.0p
Year ended 31 December 2012 98.6p 366.2p 412.2p 130.2p 163.7p
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 123 NOTES 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED
Fair value model inputs for share options awarded
2013
LTIP 
Part A
LTIP 
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year plan
SAYE 
5 year plan
Weighted average fair value at grant 80.2p 370.0p 458.7p 142.4p 134.1p
Weighted average share price at grant 325.1p 476.8p 490.4p 471.5p 375.8p
Weighted average exercise price 325.1p – – 354.5p 279.9p
Weighted average volatility 36.1% 31.4% 31.4% 32.4% 34.9%
Weighted average dividend yield 3.14% 2.42% 2.36% 2.42% 2.84%
Weighted risk free rate 1.43% 0.84% 0.78% 1.10% 2.33%
Expected employee retention rates 89.8% 100.0% 100.0% 75.0% 75.0%
Expected term 3.37 years 3.03 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 5.00 years
Valuation model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial Binomial
2012
LTIP 
Part A
LTIP 
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year plan
SAYE 
5 year plan
Weighted average fair value at grant 65.0p 254.8p 311.1p 97.5p 76.3p
Weighted average share price at grant 252.4p 329.0p 338.3p 306.2p 244.9p
Weighted average exercise price 252.4p – – 232.5p 190.8p
Weighted average volatility 36.7% 35.3% 36.0% 37.4% 29.7%
Weighted average dividend yield 3.64% 3.12% 2.98% 3.07% 3.78%
Weighted risk free rate 1.90% 1.28% 1.31% 1.71% 3.57%
Expected employee retention rates 89.5% 99.4% 100.0% 75.0% 75.0%
Expected term 3.41 years 3.06 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 5.00 years
Valuation model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial Binomial
Where relevant, market conditions are taken into account in determining the fair value of the awards at grant date. The three year average 
historic volatility at grant date has been used as the volatility input for the LTIP Part A, LTIP Part B, DASB and SAYE 3 year awards, and the five 
year average historic volatility at grant date has been used as the volatility input for the SAYE 5 year award.
2013 and 2012
LTIP 
Part A
LTIP 
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year plan
SAYE  
5 year plan
Contractual life 3 – 10 years 3 – 6 years 3 years 3 years 5 years
Details of the vesting conditions of the LTIP Part A, LTIP Part B and DASB share option schemes are set out in the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee on pages 67 to 84 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1.
19 . SHARE CAPITAL
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p (2012: 25p) each 60.1 54.8
Number of ordinary shares in issue
Beginning of year 219,326,796 219,326,796
Issue of shares during the year 21,142,613 –
End of year 240,469,409 219,326,796
At 31 December 2013 the Company held 5,305,790 (2012: 7 ,944,568) of its own shares in treasury.
To fund the acquisition of Contego (see note 23), Essentra issued a total of 21,142,613 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 675p per 
share, raising gross proceeds of £142.7m. Issue costs of £1.0m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of shares 
issued is recorded in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
124 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 20. RESERVES
Within retained earnings the Company has deducted the value of own shares purchased for an employee trust and treasury shares held by  
the Company with a total cost of £30.4m (2012: £25.9m). 
Employee trust shares are ordinary shares of the Company held in an employee benefit trust. The purpose of this trust is to hold shares in the 
Company for subsequent transfer to Executive Directors and employees relating to deferred share awards and options granted under the 
Company’s share-based incentive plans. Full details are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 67 to 84 of the 2013 
Annual Report Book 1. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in these financial statements. At 31 December 
2013 the trust held 2,484,586 (2012: 1,614,685) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal value of £0.6m 
(2012: £0.4m) and market value of £21.3m (2012: £8.9m).
The Company holds 5,305,790 ordinary shares with a nominal value of £1.3m in treasury. This represents 2.2% of the number of ordinary shares  
in issue.
The other reserve relates to the Group reorganisation, which took place as part of the demerger from Bunzl plc. It represents the difference 
between Essentra plc’s share capital and Essentra International Limited’s share capital and share premium on 6 June 2005 and is not 
distributable.
21. ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
1 Jan  
2013
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange 
movements 
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
31 Dec  
2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 40.2 2.3 (0.5) – 42.0
Short-term bank deposits and investments 1.2 1.2 (0.3) – 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 41.4 3.5 (0.8) – 44.1
Debt due within one year – (0.2) 0.3 (6.6) (6.5)
Debt due after one year (204.9) (37.5) 0.9 (13.2) (254.7)
Net debt (163.5) (34.2) 0.4 (19.8) (217.1)
The non-cash movements represent the amortisation of prepaid facility fees and the increase in net debt from loans acquired.
1 Jan  
2012 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
31 Dec  
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 31.0 10.4 (1.2) – 40.2
Short-term bank deposits and investments 4.8 (3.7) 0.1 – 1.2
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 35.8 6.7 (1.1) – 41.4
Debt due within one year (3.4) 3.3 0.1 – –
Debt due after one year (177.3) (32.9) 6.6 (1.3) (204.9)
Net debt (144.9) (22.9) 5.6 (1.3) (163.5)
The non-cash movement is the amortisation of prepaid facility fees, acquisition of debt through business combinations and movement of debt 
due after one year to debt due within one year.
22. COMMITMENTS
Operating leases
At 31 December Essentra had the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m
Payable within one year 7.0 4.4
Payable between one and five years 18.0 8.7
Payable after five years 11.4 6.5
36.4 19.6
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 125 NOTES 23. ACQUISITIONS
2013 acquisitions: Ulinco
On 20 February 2013, Essentra acquired 100% of the share capital of Ulinco Components AB (“Ulinco Components”) from Ulinco Invest 
Aktiebolag. Ulinco Components is a distributor of plastic protection and finishing products, hardware and specialist masking solutions in the 
Nordic region of Europe, and is reported under the Component & Protection Solutions division. The acquisition of Ulinco Components expanded 
the product range and customer base of the Component Distribution businesses and extended the division’s geographical presence in the  
Nordic region.
On acquisition the assets and liabilities of the business acquired were adjusted to reflect their fair values to Essentra. Had the acquisition been 
completed on 1 January 2013, the Group’s revenue and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items would have been £798.6m 
and £130.5m respectively.
Ulinco Components contributed £3.1m to revenue in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2013. The amount of post-acquisition  
operating profit cannot be reliably estimated, as the operations of Ulinco Components have since been integrated with Essentra’s other 
operations in Sweden, and the results have become indistinguishable. Related acquisition expenses of £0.3m were recognised in the income 
statement in exceptional operating items.
A summary of the acquisition of Ulinco Components is detailed below:
Fair value of assets / (liabilities) acquired
£m
Property, plant and equipment –
Inventories 0.4
Receivables 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents 0.2
Deferred tax (0.9)
Payables (0.5)
Provisions (0.1)
(0.5)
Customer relationships 3.9
Other intangible assets 0.2
Goodwill 3.9
Consideration 7.5
Satisfied by:
Initial cash consideration 6.7
Deferred contingent consideration 0.8
Cash consideration 6.7
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.2)
Net cash flow in respect of the acquisition 6.5
The deferred contingent consideration of £0.8m becomes payable between 1 and 2 years after completion subject to the achievement of certain 
performance conditions.
Property, plant and equipment, inventories, receivables and payables were all reassessed to their fair value. The fair value of receivables 
represents the gross contractual amounts receivable. The provisional fair values as shown in the table above have been adjusted from the 
amounts previously disclosed in the 2013 half-yearly financial statements, mainly reflecting a more detailed valuation of the customer 
relationship intangible assets and adjustments to liabilities including deferred tax.
Goodwill represents the expected operating synergies and financial synergies, and the value of an assembled workforce. Goodwill is not 
deductible for tax purposes. The adjustment to deferred tax is the tax effect of recognising customer relationships and other intangible  
assets and the tax effect of the fair value adjustments above. 
126 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 2013 acquisitions: Contego
On 30 April 2013, Essentra acquired 100% of the share capital of Contego Healthcare Limited (“Contego”) from Maximus Holding II. S.Á.R.L.  
and Storey Evans & Company Limited. Contego is a pan-European specialist business, providing a range of innovative print, packaging and 
support services to the pharmaceutical and healthcare markets from operational sites across Europe. Contego’s product portfolio is complementary 
to Essentra’s existing packaging solutions capabilities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare markets of labels, tear tape and authentication 
technologies. As such, the acquisition enhances the range and innovation offered to existing Contego and Essentra customers, and provides 
access to potential new customers through leveraging skills in the combined Group. The acquisition of Contego also provides opportunities  
for further development in both Porous Technologies and in speciality tapes through an expanded and more focused category-based  
commercial approach.
On acquisition the assets and liabilities of the business acquired were adjusted to reflect their fair values to Essentra. Due to the timing of  
the transaction, the fair value adjustments are provisional and subject to finalisation for up to one year from the date of acquisition. Had the 
acquisition been completed on 1 January 2013, the Group’s revenue and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items would  
have been £833.7m and £135.6m respectively.
Contego contributed £61.4m to revenue and £7 .0m to operating profit before intangible amortisation in the period from acquisition to  
31 December 2013. Related acquisition expenses of £2.5m were recognised in the income statement in exceptional operating items.
A summary of the acquisition of Contego is detailed below:
Fair value of assets / (liabilities) acquired
£m
Property, plant and equipment 24.2
Inventories 6.0
Receivables 23.9
Cash and cash equivalents 10.7
Deferred tax (18.7)
Loans and borrowings (14.0)
Payables (18.2)
Income tax (0.8)
Provisions (3.2)
Retirement benefit obligations (1.1)
8.8
Customer relationships 74.4
Other intangible assets 1.2
Goodwill 71.9
Consideration 156.3
Satisfied by:
Initial cash consideration 156.3
Cash consideration 156.3
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (10.7)
Net cash flow in respect of the acquisition 145.6
Property, plant and equipment, inventories, receivables and payables were all reassessed to their fair value. The fair value of trade receivables 
acquired is stated net of an allowance for impairment losses of £0.9m. The amount of the allowance represents the best estimate as at the  
date of acquisition. The provisional fair values as shown in the table above have been adjusted from the amounts previously disclosed in the 2013 
half-yearly financial statements, mainly reflecting a more detailed valuation of the customer relationship intangible assets and adjustments to 
liabilities including deferred tax and provisions.
Goodwill represents the expected operating synergies and financial synergies, and the value of an assembled workforce. Goodwill is not 
deductible for tax purposes. The adjustment to deferred tax is the tax effect of recognising customer relationships and other intangible assets 
and the tax effect of the fair value adjustments above. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 127 NOTES 23. ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
2013 acquisitions: Dakota and Mesan
On 7 November 2013, Essentra acquired 100% of the share capital of Dakota Packaging Limited (“Dakota”). Based in Dublin, Dakota is a supplier 
of printed, folding and litho-laminate cartons to the pharmaceutical and healthcare end-markets in Ireland, and is reported under the Packaging 
& Securing Solutions division. The acquisition of Dakota reinforced the division’s product range and customer base in healthcare packaging, and 
provided significant additional scale in the Irish market.
On 30 December 2013, Essentra acquired 100% of the share capital of Mesan Kilit A.S. (“Mesan”). Mesan is reported under the Component & 
Protection Solutions division. Mesan is a Turkish manufacturer and distributor of a range of locks, hinges, latches and hardware accessories for 
use in a wide variety of attractive growth end-markets. These markets include electricity and power distribution, telecoms, industrial, IT and 
transportation. Based in Istanbul, Mesan additionally exports to more than 75 countries, including to the Middle East & Africa and Asia. The 
acquisition of Mesan enhanced Essentra’s offering in the growing hardware sector, and provided entry into the Turkish market and a number  
of other fast-growing export markets for the Components business, as well as a platform for the geographical expansion of Essentra’s other 
activities in the region. 
On acquisition the assets and liabilities of the business acquired were adjusted to reflect their fair values to Essentra. Due to the timing of the 
transactions, the fair value adjustments are provisional and subject to finalisation for up to one year from the respective date of acquisition.  
The impact on Group revenue and operating profit if the acquisitions had been completed on 1 January 2013 is currently being assessed.
Dakota contributed revenue of £0.9m and an operating loss of £0.1m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2013. Related acquisition 
expenses of £0.5m were recognised in the income statement in exceptional operating items.
As Mesan was acquired shortly before the year end, it contributed no revenue and operating profit to the Group during 2013. Related acquisition 
expenses of £0.6m were recognised in the income statement in exceptional operating items.
A summary of the acquisitions of Dakota and Mesan is detailed below:
Fair value of assets / (liabilities) acquired
Dakota
£m
Mesan
£m
Total
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 1.2 1.7
Inventories 0.8 1.3 2.1
Receivables 1.7 1.9 3.6
Cash and cash equivalents – 0.3 0.3
Deferred tax (1.1) (3.8) (4.9)
Loans and borrowings – (4.7) (4.7)
Payables (2.0) (2.4) (4.4)
Provisions (1.8) – (1.8)
(1.9) (6.2) (8.1)
Customer relationships 7.3 18.8 26.1
Other intangible assets 0.3 – 0.3
Goodwill 7.3 16.2 23.5
Consideration 13.0 28.8 41.8
Satisfied by:
Initial cash consideration 13.0 23.4 36.4
Deferred contingent consideration – 5.4 5.4
Cash consideration 13.0 23.4 36.4
Cash and cash equivalents acquired – (0.3) (0.3)
Net cash flow in respect of the acquisitions 13.0 23.1 36.1
The Mesan deferred contingent consideration becomes payable within three years after completion subject to the achievement of certain 
performance conditions.
128 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment, inventories, receivables and payables were all reassessed to their fair value. The fair value of receivables shown 
in the table above represents the gross contractual amounts receivable less an allowance for impairment losses of £0.6m. The amount of the 
allowance represents the best estimate as at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the expected operating synergies and financial synergies, and the value of an assembled workforce. Goodwill is not 
deductible for tax purposes. The adjustment to deferred tax is the tax effect of recognising customer relationships and other intangibles  
and the tax effect of the fair value adjustments above.
Relevant previous acquisitions
During 2013, Essentra reassessed the fair value adjustments made in respect of Securit, Lymtech and Jae Yong, which were acquired in 2012,  
and made changes to certain accruals and adjustments to the fair value of receivables and inventories. These adjustments were insignificant 
individually and in aggregate, and had no overall impact on goodwill recognised in respect of these acquisitions. In addition, deferred tax in 
relation to Lymtech was increased by £1.8m, resulting in an increase in goodwill by the same amount.
24. DISPOSALS
In December 2012, Essentra received £2.9m from the Itavema Group which represented the final instalment due in relation to  
the deferred consideration for the disposal on 29 June 2007 of Globalpack, its Brazilian consumer packaging business. 
In July 2011, Essentra disposed of its shares in FractureCode Corporation ApS (“FractureCode”) to ITO Technologies ApS for 
consideration of £0.3m payable over two years. In 2012, Essentra received £0.2m from ITO Technologies ApS, which represented  
the final instalment of the consideration.
25. DIVIDENDS
Per share Total
2013
p
2012
p
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2012 interim: paid 26 October 2012 3.9 8.2
2012 final: paid 30 April 2013 8.6 20.0
2013 interim: paid 28 October 2013 4.8 11.2
2013 proposed final: payable 2 May 2014 10.6 24.7
15.4 12.5 35.9 28.2
26. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES
On 3 July 2013, Essentra acquired a further 14.545% of the share capital of Filthai Company Limited (“Filthai”) from the minority shareholders  
for a cash consideration of £1.9m. Other than the acquisition of further shares in Filthai and the compensation of key management (note 6), 
Essentra has not entered into any material transactions with related parties during the year.
27 . PARENT COMPANY
Essentra plc is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates as the ultimate 
parent company of the Essentra Group. Its registered office is Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 1AU.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 129 NOTES 28. ADJUSTED MEASURES
Management reviews the adjusted operating profit and operating cash flow as measures of the performance of the business. Adjusted operating 
profit is stated before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items which are considered not relevant to measuring the performance 
of the business. Operating cash flow is adjusted operating profit before depreciation, share option expense and other non-cash items, less 
working capital movements and net capital expenditure as shown below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating profit 97.0 85.6
Intangible amortisation 14.2 8.3
Exceptional operating items 19.2 10.6
Adjusted operating profit 130.4 104.5
Depreciation 26.7 22.6
Share option expense 5.1 4.0
Other non-cash items (6.0) (1.6)
Working capital movements (5.3) (7.8)
Net capital expenditure (43.7) (43.2)
Operating cash inflow 107.2 78.5
130 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Note
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertaking 2,10 439.2 291.5
 
Current assets
Debtors 3 0.6 0.5
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (57.7) (10.3)
 
Net current liabilities (57.1) (9.8)
 
Non-current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 (95.5) (97.1) 
Net assets 286.6 184.6
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 7 60.1 54.8
Merger relief reserve 7,8 136.4 –
Capital redemption reserve 8 0.1 0.1
Profit and loss account 8 90.0 129.7
Shareholders’ funds: equity interests 286.6 184.6
The Company financial statements on pages 131 to 135 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2014 and were signed on its  
behalf by:
Colin Day Matthew Gregory
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
at 31 December 2013
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 131 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable UK accounting standards. 
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, Essentra plc (formerly Filtrona plc) (“the Company”) is exempt from the requirements to present 
its own profit and loss account and cash flow statement. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, because the published consolidated financial 
statements of the Group include disclosures which comply with the Standard. 
The following principal accounting policies have been consistently applied.
B. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKING
Investment in subsidiary undertaking is held at cost less any provision for impairment. The Company assesses at each balance sheet date 
whether the investment in its subsidiary has been impaired.
C. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The fair value of share options is measured at grant date. It is recognised as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary in which the 
relevant employees work over the expected period between grant and vesting date of the options, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
D. OWN SHARES
The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share incentive plans are treated as 
belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings. The cost of shares held directly (treasury shares) is also deducted from 
retained earnings.
E. DIVIDENDS
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company (final dividend) or paid 
(interim dividend).
F . FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the 
gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. Exchange differences arising from movements in spot rates are included 
in the profit and loss account as exchange gains or losses, while those arising from the interest differential elements of forward currency 
contracts are included in external interest income or expense.
G. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial instruments are measured initially at fair value. The subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the financial instrument. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) are held at amortised cost. 
The Company holds financial instruments which hedge the net investments in the foreign operations of its subsidiary undertakings. Since the 
Company does not hold the underlying investments, gains and losses on these instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account.
132 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES
1. NET OPERATING CHARGES 
The auditor was paid £5,000 (2012: £5,000) for the statutory audit of the Company. Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for services other than 
the statutory audit of the Company are disclosed on page 110.
The Directors’ remuneration, which was paid by Essentra International Limited is disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on 
pages 67 to 84 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1.
2. INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS
Investment in  
subsidiary undertaking
2013
£m
2012
£m
At beginning of year 291.5 287.5
Additions 147.7 4.0
At end of year 439.2 291.5
3. DEBTORS
2013
£m
2012
£m
Corporate taxes 0.6 0.5
4. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2013
£m
2012
£m
Accruals and deferred income 1.0 1.0
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 56.7 9.3
57.7 10.3
5.  CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
2013
£m
2012
£m
Loan Notes 95.5 97.1
6. MATURITY OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Non bank loans
 2013
£m
 2012
£m
Debt can be analysed as falling due:
Between one and five years 47.9 48.7
More than five years 47.6 48.4
95.5 97.1
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 133 NOTES 7 . SHARE CAPITAL
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p (2012: 25p) each 60.1 54.8
Number of ordinary shares in issue
Beginning of year 219,326,796 219,326,796
Issue of shares during the year 21,142,613 –
End of year 240,469,409 219,326,796
At 31 December 2013 the Company held 5,305,790 (2012: 7 ,944,568) of its own shares in treasury.
 
Essentra issued a total of 21,142,613 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 675p per share, raising gross proceeds of £142.7m. Issue costs 
of £1.0m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of shares issued is recorded in a merger relief reserve in accordance 
with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
8. MOVEMENTS ON RESERVES
Profit and loss account
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Own  
shares 
£m
1 January 2013 – 0.1 155.6 (25.9)
Loss for the year ended 31 December 2013 (2.0)
Issue of shares 136.4
Acquisition of employee benefit trust shares (16.3)
Shares issued to satisfy employee share option exercises (11.8) 11.8
Share options exercised 4.7
Share-based payments 5.1
Dividends paid (31.2)
31 December 2013 136.4 0.1 120.4 (30.4)
 
Profit and loss account
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Own  
shares 
£m
1 January 2012 – 0.1 181.0 (30.3)
Loss for the year ended 31 December 2012 (1.4)
Acquisition of employee benefit trust shares (6.1)
Shares issued to satisfy employee share option exercises (10.5) 10.5
Share options exercised 5.7
Share-based payments 4.0
Dividends paid (23.2)
31 December 2012 – 0.1 155.6 (25.9)
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in these 
financial statements. The loss attributable to equity holders included in the accounts of the Company is £2.0m (2012: £1.4m).
Included in retained earnings are accumulated share-based payments of £22.5m (2012: £17 .4m) which are credited directly to reserves and are 
not distributable. Full details of these share-based payments are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 67 to 84 of the 
2013 Annual Report Book 1 and also on pages 123 to 124. 
134 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES CONTINUED 9 . DIVIDENDS
Per share Total
2013
p
2012
p
2013
£m
2012
£m
2012 interim: paid 26 October 2012 3.9 8.2
2012 final: paid 30 April 2013 8.6 20.0
2013 interim: paid 28 October 2013 4.8 11.2
2013 proposed final: payable 2 May 2014 10.6 24.7
15.4 12.5 35.9 28.2
10. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 
Country of incorporation
Essentra International Limited UK
Essentra Finance Limited UK
ESNT International Limited UK
Essentra Components Limited UK
ESNT Packaging & Securing Solutions Limited UK
Essentra Packaging Limited UK
Essentra Corp US
Essentra Porous Technologies Corp US
Essentra Holdings Corp US
ESNT US Holdings Inc US
Essentra Components Inc US
Essentra International GmbH Germany
PT Essentra Indonesia
Essentra BV The Netherlands
Essentra Pte Limited Singapore
The companies named above are the principal subsidiary undertakings of Essentra plc and are included in the consolidated financial statements 
of the Group. The wholly owned investments in the companies above relate to ordinary shares or common stock. The principal country in which 
each company operates is the country of incorporation.
Essentra International Limited is the only direct subsidiary of Essentra plc. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 135 NOTES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY
OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Essentra plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 90 to 135. In our opinion: 
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the European Union; 
 > the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit 
were as follows. 
Warranty and restructuring provisions 
Refer to page 63 (Report of the Audit Committee) of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1, page 101 (accounting policy) and page 119  
(financial disclosures).
 > The risk – The Group produces a wide range of products and operates manufacturing facilities in a number of countries. The Group has 
reorganised its facilities within the Component & Protection Solutions and Packaging & Securing Solutions segments. A provision for the future 
costs related to these reorganisations can only be recognised when sufficient information has been provided to the affected parties. Where a 
reorganisation is announced after the year end, judgement may be required to determine the impact of restructuring plans on forecasts used 
for impairment testing.  
 
Many of the Group’s products are used by its customers in creating their end product; if quality issues arise the Group may need to make  
a provision for returns. Measuring these provisions is a significant judgement and is inherently subjective. 
 > Our response – Our audit procedures included, among others:
 – In respect of restructuring provisions, challenging the Group’s assertion that their intentions were sufficiently clear to allow recognition  
of a restructuring provision by considering the information provided in the Group’s external announcements (such as press releases) and 
comparing those announcements to the requirements within accounting standards. In assessing the amount of any restructuring provision 
to be recognised we considered: the content of the Group’s external announcements; the relevant employment terms; the legal 
requirements of the relevant jurisdiction, which takes into account advice provided to the Group by their legal advisors where necessary; 
and the historical practice of the Group of making any payments over and above the minimum required by law. We also considered the 
carrying amount and remaining useful life of assets affected by restructuring programmes announced during the year and after the year 
end to assess whether any impairment charge was required. We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect  
of restructuring provisions. 
 – In respect of warranty provisions, considering whether the Group’s methodology for calculating the provision was appropriate based on  
the historical accuracy of the methodology. This included comparing actual outcomes to provision levels from prior periods and discussing 
significant customer complaints during the year end with the Group and divisional management. We considered changes in market 
conditions, such as new product launches, when setting our expectation based on past events. We compared actual warranty outflows 
post year end, where significant, to those expected at the balance sheet date. We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures in respect of warranty provisions. 
Valuations of trade receivables 
Refer to page 62 (Report of the Audit Committee) of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1, page 101 (accounting policy) and page 102 (financial 
disclosures).
 > The risk – The Group has a large number of customers which in aggregate have significant outstanding balances. Some of these customers 
operate in countries facing more difficult economic circumstances, which exposes the Group to additional bad debt risk.
 > Our response – Our audit procedures for valuation of trade receivables included, among others, testing the effectiveness of the Group’s  
controls over the monitoring of receivables and over the collection process. We considered whether the Group’s provisioning methodology, taking 
into consideration publicly available global and local country economic data (such as GDP information), was appropriate given the changing 
economic conditions faced by customers. We compared cash collections post year end to the Group’s expectations at the balance sheet date, 
as well as assessing the ageing of the trade receivables. For the outstanding amounts we considered the location of the customer and the 
externally available market data for that country to set an expectation of the level of provision required and compared our expectation to the 
Group’s provision. We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving  
at the provision. 
136 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Taxation contingencies 
Refer to page 63 (Report of the Audit Committee) of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1 and page 101 (accounting policy).
 > The risk – Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures. This is 
one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due to the Group operating in a number of different tax jurisdictions and the 
complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation
 > Our response – In this area our audit procedures included, among others, assessment of correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and 
the use of internal tax specialists to analyse correspondence with tax authorities and challenge the assumptions used to determine the 
requirement for any tax provisions based on the internal tax specialists’ knowledge of tax legislation and their past experience of the outcome  
of similar arrangements. We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £6.4 million. This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of 
Group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial 
performance of the Group. Materiality represents 7% of Group profit before tax and 5% of Group profit before tax adjusted for intangible 
amortisation and exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the income statement. 
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in 
excess of £0.3 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes or specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors at the reporting components in the 
following countries: 
Audits for group reporting purposes Specified audit procedures
United Kingdom (8 sites) United Kingdom (1 site)
United States of America (2 sites) United States of America (4 sites)
Singapore (2 sites) India (1 site)
Indonesia (1 site) Italy (1 site)
Thailand (1 site) Germany (1 site)
Netherlands (2 sites) China (1 site)
Italy (2 sites) Mexico (1 site)
Hungary (1 site)
Germany (1 site)
These Group procedures covered 72% of total Group revenue; 70% of Group profit before taxation; and 77% of net Group assets. The remaining 
28% of Group revenue, 30% of Group profit before tax and 23% of Group net assets is represented by 82 components around the world. None  
of the 82 components represented more than 1.9% of total Group Revenue, 2.6% of Group profit before tax, or 1.9% of Group net assets. We 
consider the aggregate risk when performing our audit planning and during our final analytical procedures over the Group financial statements.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set 
by, or agreed with, the Group audit team. These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from £0.3m to £2.3m.
 
Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations. These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered 
by the component auditors (which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above) and set out the information required to 
be reported back to the Group audit team. The Group audit team visited the following locations: United Kingdom, Hungary and United States. 
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations and the majority of the other locations that were not physically visited. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
 > the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  
2006; and 
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.  
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESENTRA PLC ONLY 5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified  
other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements,  
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 > we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that they 
consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
 > the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us  
to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
 > the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are not in agreement  
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 > certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 > the directors’ statement, set out on page 87 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1, in relation to going concern; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 and 61 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1, relating to the company’s compliance  
with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 88 of the 2013 Annual Report Book 1, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope 
of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is 
made solely to Essentra plc’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mike Barradell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
20 February 2014
138 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY ADVISORS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
Secretary and Registered Office
Jon Green
Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 1AU
Company Number 05444653
www.essentra.com
Financial advisors and stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank
Winchester House,
1 Great Winchester Street,
London EC2 2DB
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5GL
Principal bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4RB
Registrar
If you have any questions about your shareholding, please contact, in the first instance:
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH
Telephone 0870 702 0003
Computershare also has an internet facility whereby shareholders in Essentra plc are able to access details of their shareholding.  
You can access this service at www.computershare.com.
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documentation through the post, the Company offers shareholders the option to receive by email, a notification 
that shareholder documents (including the Annual Reports, Notice of Shareholder Meetings, Proxy Forms etc.) are available for access on the 
Company’s website. If you wish to make such an election, you should register online at www.computershare.com. If you have already made  
such an election you need take no further action. Registration is entirely voluntary and you may request a hard copy of the shareholder 
documents or change your election at any time.
CREST
Share Settlement System
The Company entered the CREST system on listing and the ordinary shares are available for settlement in CREST. As the membership system  
is voluntary, shareholders not wishing to participate can continue to hold their own share certificates.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Central Milton Keynes, 
Buckinghamshire MK9 2HG on Tuesday 29 April 2014 at 12 noon.
Financial calendar 2014
Annual General Meeting 29 April 2014
First Interim Management Statement 29 April 2014
Final Dividend 3 May 2014
Half Year Report 31 July 2014
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 2 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 139  The printer and paper manufacturing 
mill are both accredited with ISO 14001
Environmental Management Systems 
and are both Forest Stewardship 
Council
®
 certified. CPI Colour is also  
a certified CarbonNeutral
®
 company.
Designed and produced by  
Addison Group
www.addison-group.net Essentra plc 
Avebury House
201-249 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 1AU
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0)1908 359100
Facsimile: +44 (0)1908 359120
Email: enquiries@essentra.com
www.essentra.com
