 Annual Report 2014 This year, our Annual Report reflects a drive to streamline our 
publications – providing relevant content for specific audiences.
Keep up-to-date at www.essentra.com
Cautionary forward-looking statement 
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations 
and assumptions. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors 
may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed  
or implied by the forward-looking statement. Each forward-looking statement speaks 
only as of the date of this Report. The Company accepts no obligations to revise or 
update publicly these forward-looking statements or adjust them to future events  
or developments, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, 
except to the extent legally required.
ESSENTRA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Contents
Strategic Report
Essentra at a Glance 2 
What We Do 4
Chief Executive’s Review  6
Strategy and Progress 12
Financial Review  16
Operational Review  18
Management of Principal Risks 32
Corporate Responsibility 38
Directors’ Report
Group Management Committee 44
Board of Directors 46
Chairman of the Board’s Letter 48
Corporate Governance Framework 50
Corporate Governance Report 51
Audit Committee Chairman’s Letter 58
Report of the Audit Committee  59 
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Letter 63
Remuneration Policy Report 66
Annual Report on Remuneration 75
Other Statutory Information 87
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 91
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement 92
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 93
Consolidated Balance Sheet 94
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 95
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 96
Accounting Policies 97
Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates 104
Notes 105
Essentra plc Balance Sheet 136
Accounting Policies 137
Notes 138
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the Members of Essentra plc Only 142
Advisors and Investor Information 147
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
1 Revenue 
2014: £243.6m 2013: £223.7m +8.9%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £58.9m 2013: £52.6m +12.0%
Further details 
Page 18
Revenue 
2014: £89.8m 2013: £100.0m -10.2%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £15.8m 2013: £23.5m -32.8%
Further details 
Page 21
Component  
& Protection Solutions
The Components business is a global, 
market-leading supplier of protection 
and finishing products, manufacturing 
and distributing plastic injection moulded, 
vinyl dip moulded and metal items. 
Operating units in 27 countries serve a very 
broad industrial base of customers with 
a rapid supply of essential components for 
a variety of applications in industries such 
as equipment manufacturing, automotive, 
fabrication, electronics and construction.
The Pipe Protection Technologies business 
specialises in the manufacture of high 
performance innovative products from 
commodity resins to engineering-grade 
thermoplastics and polymer alloys for 
use in a range of end-markets. Locations 
in four countries, combined with a wide 
distributor network, serve customers 
around the world.
2014 highlights
 > Further balanced growth in both 
Components and Pipe Protection 
Technologies
 > Benefit from site openings and 
geographical expansion
 > Successful new business wins and 
product development in Pipe 
Protection Technologies
 > Acquisition of Kelvindale Products  
Pty Ltd in Australia and the major 
operating subsidiaries of Abric Berhad  
in Malaysia
 > Integration of Mesan Kilit A.S. in Turkey
 > Go-live of new Components 
eCommerce platform
Porous 
Technologies
A global, market-leading developer and 
manufacturer of custom fluid handling 
components, engineered from a portfolio 
of technologies including bonded and 
non-woven fibre, polyurethane foam 
and porous plastic. Representing leading 
innovations used in healthcare, consumer 
and industrial applications, its enabling 
components are found in a wide range of 
products from medical diagnostics tests to 
advanced wound care pads, inkjet printer 
cartridges, writing instruments, clean 
room wipes and air fresheners. Customers 
in over 56 countries are served from six 
manufacturing facilities, with research 
and development centres supporting the 
division globally.
2014 highlights
 > Strong growth in household and 
personal care, boosted by significant 
new business wins
 > Further successful globalisation  
of speciality wipes product line
 > Increase in healthcare supported  
by advanced wound care and 
products using porous plastics
 > Continued expansion of capabilities  
in writing instruments, particularly  
in nibs
 > Successful conversion of intellectual 
property in wound care, printer 
systems and oil and water filtration
 > Additional investment in nib 
development and speciality wipes
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
2
STRATEGIC REPORT | ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE
ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE Revenue 
2014: £216.3m 2013: £181.8m +19.0%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £38.3m 2013: £30.2m +26.8%
Further details 
Page 24
Revenue 
2014: £291.5m 2013: £269.9m +8.0%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £43.9m 2013: £40.1m +9.5%
Further details 
Page 28
Packaging & Securing  
Solutions
A leading global provider of packaging and 
securing solutions to a diversified blue-chip 
customer base. The division focuses on 
delivering value-adding innovation, quality 
and service through the provision of a  
wide range of cartons, tapes, leaflets,  
foils, labels and brand protection security 
solutions, and primarily serves the 
pharmaceutical, health and personal  
care, consumer and specialist packaging, 
and the point of purchase and paper and 
board industries. It is also Europe’s leading 
provider of identity card printers, systems 
and accessories to direct and trade 
customers. Customers in over 100 
countries are served from facilities in ten 
countries, with development and design 
centres supporting the division worldwide.
2014 highlights
 > Growth led by healthcare and 
consumer packaging
 > Continued strong contribution  
from the Speciality Tapes’ Express 
format in North America
 > Agreement to acquire the Specialist 
Packaging Division of Clondalkin 
Group, establishing a global leading 
player in specialist secondary 
packaging to the pharmaceutical, 
health and personal care industries
 > Successful development of innovative 
new packaging products
 > Accelerating acquisition integration 
savings from Contego Healthcare 
Limited and Dakota Packaging Limited
 > Official opening of state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facility in Newport, UK
Filter  
Products
The only global independent cigarette 
filter supplier. The nine worldwide 
locations, including a dedicated 
Technology Centre and three regional 
development facilities, provide a flexible 
infrastructure strategically positioned to 
serve the tobacco industry. The division 
supplies a wide range of value-adding  
high quality innovative filters, packaging 
solutions to the roll your own sector and 
analytical laboratory services for 
ingredient measurement to the industry.
2014 highlights
 > Continued excellent growth,  
driven by successful new products  
and additional services
 > Further increase in revenue from 
innovative special filters and ongoing 
intellectual property development
 > Successful commercialisation of  
Smokeless Nicotine Device (“SND”)
products, including e-cigarettes
 > Growth in Scientific Services, boosted 
by e-cigarette testing capabilities
 > Ongoing production and quality 
efficiencies from investment in  
high speed, flexible equipment
 > Reconfiguration of site footprint,  
to better serve customers and drive 
further opportunities and efficiencies
1
 Excluding intangible amortisation  
and exceptional items
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
3
STRATEGIC REPORT | ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE Our business model
Essentra operates at a Company,  
a divisional and a regional level.  
The Company is responsible for 
managing the overall portfolio  
of business activities, to create 
sustainable long-term value for 
shareholders. Essentra has established 
processes and procedures in place  
to ensure effective and efficient 
management across all of  
our segments.
We have a clear model for managing 
our portfolio of business activities
Strategic framework
Essentra’s business and financial objectives 
were defined in its Vision 2015 strategy, 
which calls for balanced, profitable organic 
growth complemented by value-creating 
acquisitions. Each of the businesses is 
responsible for contributing to Essentra’s 
overall strategic priorities, to ensure the 
Company’s ongoing success and, hence, 
the creation of sustainable long-term 
shareholder value.
Risk management and governance
Effective management of risk and 
opportunity is essential to the protection of 
Essentra’s reputation and the achievement 
of sustainable shareholder value. The Board 
of Directors is responsible for determining 
the risk attitude of the Company and  
for communicating to the organisation  
what constitutes acceptable risk-taking. 
The Board, supported by the Audit 
Committee, also oversees the management 
process for the identification, assessment 
and mitigation of risk across Essentra. 
Clear portfolio management
Talent management
Essentra’s employees are a vital resource 
in the pursuit of operational excellence 
and the provision of quality products 
and service. The skills and expertise of 
Essentra’s employees drive the innovation 
which enables the Company to provide 
added value to its customers, enhance 
supply chain logistics with its suppliers  
and reduce the environmental impact  
of its operations. The Company regularly 
reviews its organisational structure to 
ensure that the business has the necessary 
personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
Legal requirements and compliance
Essentra is committed to ensuring that 
all of its activities are conducted in 
accordance with all applicable legal  
and regulatory requirements and the 
highest standards of ethical business 
conduct. The Company’s Code of Business 
Ethics policy aims to guide stakeholders, 
including employees, on the elements that 
drive the conduct of Essentra businesses. 
The way in which Essentra does business 
reflects its commitment to profitable 
growth, sustainable development and 
integrity, and the Company’s policies 
continue to promote fair and ethical 
dealings with customers and competitors 
as a matter of law and conscience.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
4
WHAT WE DO
STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO Leverage our scale
We have a well-invested and flexible 
international sourcing, supply chain and 
production infrastructure. This allows us 
to offer businesses across the Company 
the opportunity to use our existing 
infrastructure and management to  
exploit new opportunities efficiently  
and cost-effectively. Our international 
distribution network ensures the delivery 
of cost-competitive and high quality 
products in response to customers’ 
requirements. High levels of service and 
broad geographic reach are an important 
competitive differentiator.
Operate efficiently
We have a comprehensive international 
production and distribution footprint, 
which can be flexed to respond to 
customers’ needs, whether they be 
product, service, cost or supply chain 
driven. Supported by sophisticated  
IT systems, we are focused on being  
a low-cost producer, to secure revenue 
growth at attractive margins. Continuous 
improvement programmes, with tight  
cost control and productivity gains,  
serve to reduce conversion costs.
Shared divisional priorities
Invest in new product innovation
The continued successful launch and 
commercialisation of new products 
and services is a key driver of our future 
growth. Investment in research and 
development functions, supported by 
the identification of additional product 
sourcing opportunities to deliver product 
innovation and range development, 
provides the platform to further enhance 
our competitive positions. Robust quality 
systems maintained to internationally 
accredited standards assist the fulfilment 
of customers’ demands.
Benefit from our experienced 
management team and talent base
We have a highly experienced and 
well-regarded management team and 
employee base. Their detailed insight  
into customer needs and market  
trends allows us to respond proactively 
to changing priorities and to drive 
performance. Technical expertise is 
reflected in production and supply-chain 
efficiencies and product innovation.
Develop long-term  
customer relationships
We develop and maintain a close 
relationship with a wide portfolio of 
blue-chip customers, who are successful 
leaders in their respective markets. 
The high standards of service and supply 
demanded by such customers help to 
drive continuous improvement across 
the Company. Our manufacturing and 
distribution expertise adds value in 
response to customer demands, and 
our innovative capabilities drive the 
joint development of new products 
and services with key strategic partners.
Delivering value
Build on our leading international 
market positions
We have secured leading international 
positions in many of our served markets 
in each of our four principal operating 
divisions. With our investment in 
international infrastructure, technology, 
innovation and people, the strength of 
our businesses within their respective 
markets enables us to deliver balanced, 
profitable growth. 
Clear portfolio management
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
5
WHAT WE DO In the final year of Vision 2015, I am 
pleased to report that in 2014 we  
again successfully delivered our  
strategic objectives.
Delivering balanced, profitable 
growth in 2014 …
In FY 2014, revenue increased 9% on 
a like-for-like basis – well ahead of our  
“at least our mid single-digit growth” 
objective – with this strong result being 
supported by investment in both existing 
and new geographies, improved marketing 
effectiveness and continued product 
innovation.
FY 2014 adjusted operating profit rose  
16% (at constant exchange), equating  
to a 30bps uplift in the margin to 16.5%. 
This improvement came from the delivery 
of acquisition integration synergies and 
other savings initiatives – combined with 
ongoing discipline around our underlying 
cost base. Financing costs benefited from  
the successful refinancing of our banking 
facilities at more favourable rates in July 
and, combined with a further 250bps 
improvement in the tax rate, adjusted 
earnings per share (at constant exchange) 
increased 19%, again well in excess of our 
“at least double-digit growth” objective.
2014 saw further investment in future 
revenue growth opportunities, with  
capital expenditure of £38m. However, 
notwithstanding this spend, our operating 
cash flow conversion ratio remained strong 
at 75%, and was boosted by a further 
10bps improvement in underlying net 
working capital / revenue. Underpinned  
by this strong cash flow generation, we 
again confirmed our commitment to 
paying a progressive dividend, with  
a recommended increase in the FY 2014  
payout of 19%, to 18.3p per share.
Consistent with our strategic objectives, 
we successfully completed a number of 
value-adding acquisitions to complement 
the organic performance of the Company. 
In Component & Protection Solutions, 
we undertook a number of attractive 
bolt-on transactions in 2014, which have 
not only expanded our product offering 
to customers but also provided compelling 
entry points into new geographies. First, 
in January, we announced that we had 
purchased Mesan Kilit A.S. (“Mesan”),  
the leading Turkish manufacturer and 
distributor of locks, hinges, latches and 
hardware accessories for use in a wide 
variety of attractive growth end-markets. 
Then in April, we reported the acquisition 
of Kelvindale Products Pty Ltd 
(“Kelvindale”) in Australia, a leading 
manufacturer and distributor of an 
extensive range of plastic protection  
and finishing products. And finally, in 
December, we announced that we had 
completed the acquisition of 100% of the 
share capital of the major operating 
subsidiaries of Abric Berhad (“Abric Seals”), 
a global leading manufacturer and 
distributor of security sealing products  
and solutions based in Malaysia.
Separately in Packaging & Securing 
Solutions, in November we announced 
an agreement to acquire the Specialist  
Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group 
(“Clondalkin SPD”), a leading global 
provider of a broad suite of speciality 
secondary packaging solutions for the 
pharmaceutical, health and personal care 
industries. With 24 facilities in North 
America and Europe, Clondalkin SPD 
transforms our existing geographical 
capabilities to pharmaceutical and 
healthcare customers who are increasingly 
seeking a global partner for their packaging 
requirements. In addition, Clondalkin SPD’s 
complementary portfolio of folding carton, 
product literature and labels not only 
broadens the range and innovation offered 
to these targeted end-markets, but also 
significantly enhances Essentra’s position  
in the growing personal care and beauty 
packaging industry.
Valued at approximately US$455m, 
Clondalkin SPD is by far the largest 
transaction we have undertaken to date, 
and the Board was very encouraged by  
the support for the deal shown by the 
Company’s major shareholders through 
their participation in the 9.99% placing of 
ordinary shares which partially funded the 
consideration. With a price of 713.5p per 
placing share – at par with the previous day’s 
close – the placing raised gross proceeds of 
£168.8m. The acquisition of Clondalkin SPD 
completed on 30 January 2015.
During the year, we also continued our 
investment in our site footprint, as well  
as identified further opportunities for 
rationalisation and efficiency savings 
through adopting a more Company-wide 
approach to our manufacturing and 
distribution capabilities. In Newport, UK, 
we opened a purpose-built 52,000 sq. ft. 
labels manufacturing facility, incorporating 
the latest in digital printing capability and 
the best in cleanroom technology, to meet 
the growing needs of the Company’s 
targeted healthcare and consumer 
packaging end-markets from a world-
class operation. In Louisville, US, our  
new warehousing and distribution facility 
not only allows us to provide an even  
wider choice of standard Components 
products for rapid delivery, but is now  
also holding speciality wipes and other 
porous components, and has the scope  
to accommodate more of Essentra’s 
products over time. And in Alta Parana, 
Paraguay, what was previously just a  
Filter Products manufacturing site has 
received investment in additional capacity 
and tear tape slitting equipment, providing  
a cost-effective way of expanding our 
presence in Latin America.
… and over the course of Vision 2015
Back in 2011 when I joined the Company, 
I said that I had found a business that  
was essentially in good shape and doing 
many positive things, with an international 
footprint, leading market positions and 
a loyal, experienced workforce: in essence, 
a business that was solid, steady and 
stable. At the same time, I stated that 
the introduction of Vision 2015 represented 
a more ambitious strategy for the 
Company, looking to build on the positive 
features and values which I inherited,  
while rekindling an appetite for growth 
behind key objectives and targets, and 
creating a more unified culture across the 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW organisation. In reviewing the Company’s 
performance over the last three and a  
half years, versus our objective of creating 
sustainable long-term value for our 
shareholders, and our strategic and 
operational priorities, the Board and 
the Group Management Committee 
(“GMC”) believe that we have made 
good progress.
From the outset of Vision 2015, we  
have sought to reposition the business  
to focus on revenue growth and – with  
the Company being a high volume 
manufacturer, supplier and distributor 
of essential components – looked to 
volume to be the key driver of our top- 
line performance. In this respect, our 
compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) 
in revenue of 9% – of which volume has 
averaged c. 7% pa – has demonstrated  
a consistent ability to outperform our 
weighted average market growth rate 
(which we estimated at low to mid 
single-digit). 
At the same time, we have improved 
the Group adjusted operating margin by 
110bps – equating to a CAGR in adjusted 
operating profit of 16%. This increase in 
absolute terms has partially been 
impacted by the acquisitions which we 
have undertaken during the period (which 
are typically, initially at least, at a lower 
margin than the Company average) – as 
well as the mix impact of the very high 
revenue growth in the lower margin Filter 
Products division. However, our volume-
driven revenue growth, together with 
rigorous control of our cost base, the 
successful delivery of acquisition integration 
synergies and other savings initiatives, have 
nonetheless fuelled a strong improvement 
in the profitability of the Company.
Cash flow generation has equally been 
a key performance indicator where  
– over the course of Vision 2015 – we have 
averaged a conversion rate of 86%: this  
is notwithstanding that we have invested 
over £150m of capital in future revenue 
growth opportunities during the period.  
In conjunction with the increase in 
operating profit, a more disciplined 
approach to the Company’s financial  
and fiscal positions has not only 
contributed to us surpassing our “at least 
double-digit adjusted earnings per share 
growth” objective (with a CAGR of 19%); 
together with a 390bps improvement in 
our net working capital / revenue ratio, it 
has similarly contributed to our cash 
conversion. All of which has enabled  
us to fulfil our commitment to paying a 
progressive dividend to shareholders, with 
an average annual increase of 19% to the 
aforementioned recommended level of 
18.3p in 2014.
Our primary strategic objective has  
been – and, indeed, remains – the creation 
of sustainable long-term value for our 
shareholders. In this respect, our total 
shareholder return since end-2010 has 
increased 230%. This improvement has 
seen us quadruple our market capitalisation 
and improve our ranking in the FTSE index 
by approximately 150 places. This is certainly 
a creditable performance; however, there 
is more to do, and further opportunity to 
realise as we move into the next phase of 
Essentra’s growth and development.
As we have previously noted, Vision 2015 
has not merely been about financial 
performance; it has also been about our 
people, and the strategic objective of 
creating a more unified Group culture. 
Indeed, talent and culture are arguably  
the issues that many organisations cite  
as being the most challenging to improve 
and / or change, and in this respect our 
Company – being a collection of a number 
of operating brands with limited affiliation 
to the Group when I joined – it was a 
particular case in point. As such, our 
rebranding to Essentra represented a key 
milestone in our development not least 
since, for the first time, it provided us with 
a single identity behind which to go to 
market in a more co-ordinated way. This 
has opened up new growth opportunities, 
as well as facilitated the necessary 
organisational change to deliver our 
strategic objectives beyond 2015 (of which 
more below). Such changes – which 
permeate all levels of the Company – are 
neither easy to implement, nor always to 
be a part of. So, on behalf of the Board,  
I would like to recognise the efforts of all 
our employees in driving them through, 
and embracing them as critical success 
factors for the future growth and 
development of Essentra.
Our new organisational structure:  
“join up, scale up, speed up”
As the Board and the GMC looked to  
the future successful development  
of the Company beyond 2015, it was  
clearly imperative that Essentra had  
an organisational structure that was 
appropriate to the delivery of our 
strategic objectives.
Although we have progressively been 
working more collaboratively over the  
last couple of years, nonetheless being 
organised purely along divisional lines still 
tended to encourage an ad hoc, piecemeal 
approach, and an individual – rather than 
Group-wide mentality. Specifically, the 
absence of a regional organisational 
structure has meant that no one individual 
– or team of individuals – has previously 
been responsible or accountable for driving 
Essentra’s overall performance in a 
particular country. This was clearly not 
optimal and, at some point, would likely 
have constrained our potential. As such, 
the adoption of a more matrix structure 
over the course of 2014 – with the grouping 
of our activities into the three geographic 
regions of Europe, Americas and Asia, 
supplementing the divisional structure – 
has been an important and logical step.
From a product perspective, the 
agreement to acquire Clondalkin SPD 
prompted a revision to the original 
intention to reorganise our divisions into 
two Strategic Business Units (“SBUs”), 
such that, with effect from January 2015, 
we are grouped into four. Indeed, the 
substantial increase in our health and 
personal care packaging capabilities 
– combined with our offering to the 
consumer goods and tobacco industries 
– has warranted the creation of a separate 
business unit which will also be responsible 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW for product development and support to 
the Speciality Tapes business. This latter 
operation combines with our Components 
and Security Card activities to form 
Distribution, while the specialised solutions 
providers of Porous Technologies, Pipe 
Protection Technologies and Extrusion  
now come together as Specialist 
Technologies. Filter Products remains  
as per our previous divisional structure, 
although now incorporates the 
development and product management 
of our e-cigarette range.
In adopting our new organisational 
structure, it has been imperative that it 
has not layered in additional bureaucracy, 
and we are pleased to confirm that the 
relevant changes have been cost-neutral, 
as anticipated. Rather, the structure is 
designed as a growth enabler which  
will help to enhance focus, scale and 
operational efficiency, and will allow us 
to offer customers the best of Essentra – 
not just the best of each division.  
Indeed, leveraging the collective skills  
and capabilities of the entire Essentra 
Group, our additional scale is already 
making us more relevant to our 
stakeholders – not only to customers,  
but also to suppliers and as an employer: 
in turn, this will force us to better 
understand the regional dynamics and 
requirements of our targeted end-markets. 
At the same time, breaking down the 
traditional divisional boundaries should 
facilitate broader thinking and better 
transfer of skills – both in terms of organic 
growth and acquisition opportunities 
– and the Board and GMC firmly believe 
that our new organisational structure will 
provide a superior platform from which we 
can stretch our capabilities into adjacent 
business activities. 
While it is still clearly very early days 
to evaluate the impact, we are already 
encouraged by a number of examples  
of the positive features of the new 
structure. For example, in Pipe Protection 
Technologies – which was already a leader 
in the Oil Country Tubular Goods market 
– we have not only benefited from a 
best-practice solution to certain capacity, 
issues in Houston, US from the Americas’ 
regional Operations team (a positive 
challenge arising from the commercial 
success of the business), but we have also 
been able successfully to enter the sizeable 
Brazilian energy market, thanks to the 
footprint which the overall Essentra Group 
provides. Separately, in Asia – and with the 
exception of Filter Products – our previous 
divisional approach had left Essentra 
significantly underweight in what are 
some of the world’s most sizeable and 
fastest-growing opportunity markets. 
However, in the short space of time since 
we introduced our regional structure, we 
have already established a strategically-
located logistics hub in Changi, Singapore 
to feed the entire region with products 
from all our businesses, and have plans  
in place for Asia to become the primary 
sourcing and manufacturing location  
for the entire Essentra Group. While this  
is to cite but two early wins, such hitherto 
untapped opportunities underscore the firm 
belief in our ability to continue to deliver 
value to shareholders – notwithstanding 
the progress we have already made under 
Vision 2015.
Talent
At all levels, our employees are a vital 
resource in the Company’s pursuit of 
operational excellence and the provision  
of quality products and service to  
our customers. 
Indeed, as an international organisation,  
it is important that we attract an 
appropriate level of local talent and 
enhance mobility through increasing 
cross-divisional moves. In this respect, we 
made good progress during the year, not 
only in terms of developing our existing 
employees but also in adding to our  
talent base from outside the Company 
and through our recent acquisitions.
At GMC level, we welcomed Gavin 
Leathem as Group Human Resources 
Director. Gavin brings significant human 
resources experience to Essentra, and  
will be responsible for developing and 
strengthening the talent base at all  
levels of the Company. In addition,  
we filled the roles required by the new 
organisational structure – not only on  
the GMC, but also below – with the 
majority of appointments to the regional 
and SBU teams made during the first half 
of the year. This timely recruitment has 
proved instrumental to the successful 
phasing of the implementation and 
transition to the new structure. 
Responding to the growing risk which all 
companies face regarding cyber security –  
and Information Technology in general 
– we appointed a new Chief Information 
Officer to the Group Leadership Team.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
8
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW In 2014, we also launched a comprehensive 
talent management process, involving  
a global assessment of the base, the 
development of competencies for various 
grades across the organisation and the  
roll out of new Leadership Development 
Centres. The Development Centres were 
held in all three geographical regions 
during the year, and will continue in 2015. 
In order to maintain and improve our 
internal “fill” rate for senior roles across  
the organisation, a quarterly review of 
talent has been initiated as part of the 
new process.
The Essentra Graduate Development 
Programme enjoyed further success in 
2014. The two-year graduate programme 
has provided a talent pipeline for a 
number of years and, in 2014, 21 people 
joined the scheme which continues to 
expand its international reach. The 2014 
intake will join the 15 graduates recruited 
in 2013, and will have the opportunity to 
develop their management skills through 
bespoke training which takes place around 
Essentra’s sites, giving graduates exposure 
to the business while carrying out an 
operational role from day one. Separately, 
in September, the 2012 graduate intake 
completed their programme, with four 
successful presentations hosted in 
Chicago, US. Representatives from senior 
management were invited to watch the 
graduate teams drawn from across 
functions and geographies present on 
projects focusing on rebranding, high 
performance culture, new product 
development and competitor analysis.
The Board and the GMC are committed 
to ensuring that Essentra is a great place 
to work, and to ensure that we continue to 
improve as an organisation, we launched 
Enable 2014 – our second Group-wide 
employee engagement survey – in 
December. Translated into 20 languages 
and distributed to c. 5,000 employees 
worldwide, the survey saw an excellent 
81% response rate. Given the changes 
which have been introduced under Vision 
2015 – from rebranding to the adoption of 
our new organisational structure – Enable 
2014 has been a key forum for employees 
to share their views and to help shape how 
the Company develops in the future, so we 
confidently move forward to the next 
phase of growth. Naturally, there are areas 
for improvement, where action plans are 
in the process of being agreed and will be 
implemented: however, it was particularly 
encouraging that a very high 80% of 
respondents are proud to work for Essentra. 
“Drive for 2020”
As Essentra has become larger it  
has been imperative that we continue  
to evolve in order to maximise the 
opportunities available to the Company. 
At the same time, however, the model  
of balanced, profitable growth which  
we introduced with Vision 2015 has proven 
to be successful in terms of delivering 
value to our shareholders. As a result, in 
formulating the strategy to take Essentra 
forward over the next five years, the Board 
and the GMC were concerned to ensure 
that it was more a case of evolution  
than revolution, maintaining the core 
philosophy of Vision 2015 while flexing 
certain aspects to ensure that we  
focus our efforts on those activities  
which genuinely make a difference  
to a growing organisation.
In introducing our Drive for 2020 strategy, 
we have slightly amended our vision 
statement to reflect that as a company  
we are still a “work in progress” . As such, 
our goal of building Essentra into a leading 
provider of essential components and 
solutions reflects both our continued global 
growth ambitions and acknowledges our 
ability to provide our customers with 
innovative solutions and services across 
a range of targeted end-markets, which  
is not limited by material.
As Essentra becomes larger, we need to 
elevate our ambition and broaden our 
thinking to deliver the next phase of our 
growth. Accordingly, we need to continue 
the efforts which we have already started, 
to move from a product to a market and 
category-focused model. In this respect, 
the aforementioned acquisition of 
Clondalkin SPD is a compelling illustration. 
Until two years ago, our capabilities in 
pharmaceutical, health and personal  
care packaging were limited, amounting 
to tear tape, labels and authentication 
technologies. However, these end- 
markets are very sizeable, with attractive, 
long-term growth characteristics and in 
which Essentra had a low share. Having 
recognised the opportunity, we bolstered 
our category exposure – first, through the 
acquisition of Contego Healthcare Limited 
(“Contego”) and Dakota Packaging 
Limited (“Dakota”) in 2013, and we  
are now globalising our footprint with 
Clondalkin SPD. As a result, our product 
range has been expanded to include 
folding carton, leaflets and foils for  
blister packs; healthcare packaging 
accounted for some 40% 2014 revenue  
on a pro forma basis; and we have 
become the global number two supplier  
to a range of blue-chip customers.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW This diversification – whether undertaken 
organically or via M&A – is precisely the 
sort of bold thinking which Drive for 2020 
entails, and which the Board and GMC 
believe Essentra needs to embrace to 
ensure we continue to deliver value to  
our shareholders. Of course, this is not to 
ignore our more specialised capabilities in 
which we have considerable expertise and 
hold very strong market shares; however, 
we cannot simply focus our efforts on  
such areas as – on their own – they will  
not necessarily present the Group with  
the sort of scaleable global opportunities 
which we are seeking to exploit in the 
future. In re-iterating our objective of 
delivering “at least mid single-digit organic 
revenue growth” with the aspiration of 
doubling the size of the Company through 
2020 – the premise is that we will continue 
to outperform our underlying markets on 
a consistent basis: evidently, this is a more 
realistic proposition if we prioritise larger 
end-markets and opportunities. 
Recognising this, the strategic priorities 
which we have set for the next five years 
to facilitate this goal are: operating as 
“One Essentra” Group, creating synergies 
across regions and functions; becoming 
more relevant to customers and increasing 
market penetration; managing and 
upgrading the portfolio; driving operational 
excellence; and developing a global talent 
base and high performance culture.
Continuing to build on our track  
record in health and safety
Essentra’s overriding concern in the 
workplace continues to be the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees 
and those who visit the Company’s 
locations, as well as those who carry 
out work on our behalf.
In 2014, the recently-adopted regional 
leadership structure helped to drive  
further improvements in the HSE 
standards which the Company has  
already achieved. A Group-wide HSE 
management system, ESHAM, was 
successfully rolled out, to facilitate 
best-practice sharing and cultural  
change, in conjunction with a shop-floor 
Stop, Think, Evaluate, Proceed (“STEP”) 
programme. Taken together, these 
initiatives have led to a shift in focus from 
accident reporting to risk identification,  
as a result of which our lost time accident 
rate has decreased.
During the year, we also introduced a new 
HSE awards scheme, progressing from the 
previous approach of recognising sites with 
low accident rates alone to one which now 
better acknowledges cultural change, 
hazard spotting and HSE initiatives in 
addition. As such, the objective of the  
new programme is to reward employees 
and facilities which have achieved – or are 
progressing towards – world class levels of 
performance, including the development, 
sustainment and continuous improvement 
of a positive and supportive HSE culture.
The Chief Executive’s Award for  
Improved & Sustained Operational Safety 
Performance recognises and rewards sites 
which have significantly improved and 
sustained high levels of reactive and 
proactive key performance indicators.  
The GMC was pleased to award this to  
our site in Thailand, for demonstrating  
a step change in HSE culture as well as 
achieving a very low accident rate.
We have also introduced an Award for  
a Specific Improvement / Best Practice 
Project, for implementing a unique process 
of system that has reduced / will reduce  
or eliminate a specific risk. In assessing  
site applications, the ease of sharing the 
project around the Essentra Group is a  
key consideration. In 2014, this award  
was presented to our healthcare 
packaging facility in Dublin, Ireland  
for the priority given to HSE and  
improved ergonomics – in addition to 
efficiency – as part of an engineering 
project to reconfigure the production area.
As Essentra continues to increase in size – 
both organically and via acquisition –  
and the global legislative backdrop for  
HSE continues to change apace, the  
Board and the GMC are convinced  
that this regional approach will allow  
the Company to make continuous 
improvement in this critical area.
Reinforcing our responsibilities
Essentra is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
responsibility, to ensure that the way in 
which we manage our activities reflects 
the expectations of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As a member of both the 
FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, 
we recognise that our interaction with 
the environment and local communities 
is a critical component of the international 
reputation and quality of Essentra’s 
businesses, as well as a cornerstone  
of developing a responsible, progressive 
and winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities 
hold the ISO 14001 environmental 
accreditation and, with the exception 
of recently-acquired sites (which, as  
per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 
months to reach the required standard), 
they have also achieved the Occupational 
Health & Safety Management Systems 
OHSAS 18001. As anticipated in 2014,  
our Filter Products joint venture facility in 
Dubai, UAE attained ISO 14001 and OHSAS 
18001 accreditation, with the Components 
site in Turkey also achieving the latter 
certification. In addition, both Reinbek  
and Wolfen, Germany gained ISO 50001 
status during the year. Attaining the ISO 
50001 energy management standard at  
all our manufacturing facilities is a key 
objective, where we now intend to meet 
the more stringent conditions required  
to gain a single Group-wide certificate  
by the end of 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
10
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Essentra is committed to energy efficiency 
within the organisation, and we have 
continued to improve our performance on 
this front: at the same time, we have also 
further reduced the environmental impact 
of our business in other aspects, with our 
War on Waste initiative continuing to 
deliver better utilisation – and reuse  
– of raw materials across the Company.
In summary
In the final 12 months of Vision 2015,  
we continued to successfully deliver our 
strategic objectives in 2014. In addition, 
we also made important organisational 
changes through the introduction of 
a regional structure to supplement our 
existing product-based reporting lines, 
to ensure that we are optimally positioned 
to continue generating balanced, profitable 
growth beyond 2015 under our new  
Drive for 2020 strategy. In delivering these 
results and implementing these changes,  
I would like to acknowledge the efforts  
of all our employees, and to thank  
them for their continued dedication  
and commitment.
Outlook
Essentra is provided with a degree of 
defensiveness in an environment in  
which economic growth is by no means 
well-established or uniform, thanks to its 
international footprint and diverse range 
of products and end-markets. As a result, 
we are well-positioned to continue our track 
record of balanced, profitable growth in 
2015, and to begin our Drive for 2020 
strategy on a strong note. 
COLIN DAY
Chief Executive
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
11
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW How we will achieve it
Vision 2015 was an ambitious three-year 
strategy which was introduced in August 
2011, with a view to building upon the 
positive features and values of the 
Company while rekindling an appetite  
for growth behind key business objectives 
and targets. From a financial perspective, 
Vision 2015 has called for balanced 
profitable organic growth: a top-down 
model with an emphasis on strong 
performance across the board, rather  
than placing undue reliance on one 
particular metric to drive Essentra’s  
results. The Company seeks to 
complement this balanced, profitable 
organic growth with value-adding 
acquisitions across its divisions. 
The delivery of Essentra’s strategic 
priorities is underpinned by focusing 
on key performance indicators which 
measure the Company’s progress in  
the delivery of shareholder value.
A number of these indicators have  
also been used as principal elements in 
assessing the short-term and long-term 
performance of the operating businesses. 
Executive remuneration has been linked  
to the priorities of Vision 2015.
In November 2014, Essentra’s Drive for 
2020 strategy was presented in London, 
UK to the financial markets, being the 
next strategic roadmap for continuing  
to deliver value to shareholders. Further 
details can be found on the Company’s 
website www.essentra.com.
Our vision
To build a leading global provider of 
essential components and solutions.
Our objective
To create sustainable long-term value 
for our shareholders.
Our strategic and operational  
priorities
 > Deliver balanced, profitable growth  
in both our existing and future 
opportunity markets and technologies
 > Prioritise volume growth to drive higher 
revenue and gross margin expansion
 > Re-invest in the business for future growth
 > Focus on strong translation of profit 
into cash
Our responsibilities
 > Manage our activities to reflect  
the high expectations of all our 
stakeholders 
 > Establish safe operational  
procedures, and manage our  
impact on the environment 
 > Attract and develop motivated 
and highly-skilled employees 
 > Conduct our business to the highest 
ethical standards
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
12
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
STRATEGIC REPORT | STRATEGY AND PROGRESS What we measure Why we measure it How did we do?
Revenue growth
1
 
% growth in like-for-like revenue
Measures the ability of the Company 
to grow sales by operating in selected 
markets and geographies, and offering 
differentiated, cost-competitive products 
and services
9 
Revenue growth (%)
(2013: 9%)
Operating margin
2
 
Operating profit
2
 as a % of revenue
Measures the profitability  
of the Company
16.5 
Operating margin (%)
(2013: 16.2%)
Earnings per share
2
 
% change in earnings per share
2
Measures the benefits generated 
for shareholders from the Company’s 
overall performance
41.9 
Adjusted earnings per share (p)
(2013: 35.2p)
Net working capital ratio
3
 
Defined as inventories plus trade & other 
receivables less trade & other payables, 
adjusted to exclude deferred consideration 
receivable / payable, interest accruals / 
capital payables and other normalising 
items, as a % of revenue
Measures the ability of the Company 
to finance its expansion and release 
cash from working capital
11.3
4
 
Net working capital ratio (%)
(2013: 11.4%
4
)
Cash conversion
Operating cash flow as  
a % of operating profit
Measures how the Company converts  
its profit into cash
75 
Cash conversion (%)
(2013: 82%)
Dividend per share
% change in dividend per share
Measures the amount of cash per  
share which the Company returns  
to shareholders
18.3 
Dividend per share (p)
(2013: 15.4p)
Total shareholder return 
Total annual increase in value based on 
the increase in share price and the dividend 
paid to shareholders
Measures the Company’s ability 
to generate long-term value
-13.1% 
Total shareholder return (%)
(2013: 59.1%)
1
 At constant exchange rates, excluding acquisitions and disposals
2
 At constant exchange rates, excluding the impact of intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
3
 At constant exchange rates
4
 Excluding the impact of acquisitions undertaken in December 2014 and 2013
 Performance measures 
for the Executive Annual Bonus Plan
 Performance measures  
for the Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
13
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS Essentra’s key strategic objectives  
can be summarised as the “3Ps”:  
Place, Products & markets and People. 
These apply equally to how  
we seek to deliver balanced,  
profitable organic growth and  
the way in which we identify  
value-adding, complementary 
acquisition opportunities.
■ 
Place
In order to take advantage of new 
revenue growth opportunities, we look 
to expand our geographic footprint 
through reinforcing and strengthening 
our penetration in existing markets,  
and our presence in new or faster- 
growing economies.
▲ 
Products & markets
We continually seek to develop new 
product initiatives which will help to drive 
future revenue growth. In order to continue 
to add value for our customers, we aim to 
leverage the collective capabilities of the 
Company in terms of our intellectual 
property and business know-how, and 
successfully commercialise innovative 
new products in our targeted end-
markets. Range expansion and moving 
into adjacent technologies also provide 
us with growth opportunities. 
● 
People
Essentra’s Vision 2015 strategy has not just 
been about financial performance – it is 
also about people. Indeed at all levels, our 
employees are a vital resource in the 
Company’s pursuit of operational 
excellence and the provision of quality 
products and service to our customers. 
As an international organisation, it is 
important that we attract an appropriate 
level of local talent and enhance mobility 
through increasing cross-divisional moves. 
This priority is reinforced by our Drive for 
2020 strategic objectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
14
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
STRATEGIC REPORT | STRATEGY AND PROGRESS Strategic objectives Progress in 2014 Priorities in 2015
Focus on faster-growing 
markets / economies
■ 
Place
▲ 
Products & markets
 > Improved co-ordination and potential, 
due to adoption of regional 
organisational structure
 > Rolled out additional sites in both 
existing and new markets (eg, new Filter 
Products’ JV site in India, new facilities 
in Components and Speciality Tapes, 
Singapore distribution hub)
 > Entered / expanded in opportunity 
markets (eg, Abric Seals)
 > Better leverage opportunities in 
faster-growing opportunity markets, 
following adoption of a more 
co-ordinated commercial effort and 
greater in-market accountability
 > Further expansion of international 
distribution, sales and marketing 
expertise, to exploit growth 
opportunities
Identify key new product 
opportunities
▲ 
Products & markets
 > Converted manufacturing know- 
how and intellectual property into 
commercial success across divisions
 > Continued range expansion and 
improved marketing effectiveness
 > Successfully commercialised new  
SND products
 > Exploited cross-selling opportunities  
(eg, speciality wipes through 
Components’ distribution channel)
 > Further successful exploitation 
of innovative and manufacturing 
capabilities in new technologies, 
products and services across  
the Company
Identify value-creating, 
complementary M&A opportunities
■ 
Place
▲ 
Products & markets
● 
People
 > Announced agreement to acquire 
Clondalkin SPD in Packaging &  
Securing Solutions
 > Acquired Mesan, Kelvindale and Abric 
Seals in Component & Protection 
Solutions
 > Successful integration of  
2014 acquisitions
 > Identify further opportunities 
across SBUs
Investment in improving operational 
excellence and execution
▲ 
Products & markets
● 
People
 > Leveraged site footprint more efficiently
 > Increased consolidation of business 
activities at individual site level
 > Continued investment in upgrading / 
adding machinery and equipment, 
and capacity
 > Continued investment to support 
revenue growth opportunities
 > Drive revenue growth from a more 
focused go-to-market effort by 
end-market
 > Further roll-out of regional 
organisational structure, to leverage 
collective capabilities better
Strengthen organisational 
structure and talent base 
● 
People
 > Successfully filled roles required by 
the new organisational structure
 > Extended geographic reach of the 
Graduate Development Programme
 > Introduced new Leadership 
Development Centres and extended 
geographic reach
 > Continue to grow and develop 
talent across Essentra
 > Increase intra-Company moves 
to enhance mobility
 > Attract appropriate level of talent 
for a global business
 > Continue to widen the geographic 
reach of the Leadership Development 
Centres and Graduate Development 
Programme
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
15
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS Basis of preparation
The financial information is prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union and IFRS as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board, 
and with the accounting policies set out 
on pages 97 to 103.
Foreign exchange rates
Movements in exchange rates relative to 
sterling affect actual results as reported. 
The constant exchange rate basis  
adjusts the comparative to exclude such 
movements, to show the underlying 
performance of the Company. For the 
principal exchange rates for Essentra for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 (“FY 2014”), 
see the table below. Re-translating at FY 
2014 average exchange rates increases the 
prior year revenue and adjusted operating 
profit by £40.2m and £7 .8m respectively.
Principal 
exchange rates US$:£ €:£
Average
FY 2014 1.65 1.24
FY 2013 1.57 1.18
Closing
FY 2014 1.56 1.28
FY 2013 1.66 1.20
Like-for-like basis
The term “like-for-like” describes the 
performance of the business on a 
comparable basis, excluding the impact  
of acquisitions, disposals and foreign 
exchange. The FY 2014 results are adjusted 
for the results of Contego Healthcare 
Limited (“Contego”, acquired on 30 April 
2013), Mesan Kilit A.S. (“Mesan”, acquired 
on 30 December 2013) and Abric Berhad’s 
major operating subsidiaries (“Abric Seals”, 
acquired on 16 December 2014) . The impact 
of Dakota Packaging Limited (“Dakota”, 
acquired on 7 November 2013) is not 
excluded from the LFL results from  
30 April 2014, as it is no longer separately 
identifiable having been fully integrated 
into the healthcare packaging business. 
The impact of Kelvindale Products Pty Ltd 
(“Kelvindale”, acquired on 12 May 2014)  
is not excluded from the LFL results from 
30 September 2014, as it is no longer 
separately identifiable having been fully 
integrated into the Components business.
Adjusted basis
The term “adjusted” excludes the impact 
of intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items, less any associated tax 
relief. In FY 2014, intangible amortisation 
was £17 .5m (2013: £14.2m), and there  
was an exceptional pre-tax charge of 
£16.2m (2013: £19.2m) mainly relating  
to integration costs and fees arising  
from the aforementioned acquisitions.
 
Trading performance
Full year revenue was 8.5% ahead of the 
prior year (+14.2% at constant exchange) 
at £865.7m, with like-for-like growth of 
8.5%. Ongoing operational initiatives, 
volume leverage and successful pricing 
programmes to mitigate input cost 
increases were partially offset by the mix 
effect of the very strong revenue growth 
in the lower margin Filter Products division 
and inventory destocking in the higher 
margin Porous Technologies division. 
Current year acquisitions had a further 
dilutive impact such that, in total, the 
gross margin declined 130bps (140bps 
at constant exchange), to 33.6%.
On an adjusted basis, operating profit 
was ahead 9.3% (+16.2% at constant 
exchange) at £142.5m, equating to  
a 20bps uplift in the margin to 16.5% 
(+30bps at constant exchange).  
Operating profit as reported was  
£108.8m, 12.2% higher than last year 
(+20.8% at constant exchange).
Net finance expense
Net finance expense was lower at £9.1m 
(2013: £10.6m). The net interest charge on 
net debt reduced to £8.6m (2013: £9.5m), 
the amortisation of bank facility fees was 
broadly unchanged at £1.1m (2013: £1.0m) 
and there was a IAS 19 pension finance 
credit of £0.6m (2013: charge of £0.1m).
Tax
The effective tax rate on profit before 
exceptional items and tax was 24.9% 
(2013: 27 .4%).
Net income
Adjusted net income was up 15.2%  
(+24.2% at constant exchange) to £100.1m. 
On a reported basis, net income of £71.8m 
increased 19.1% (+31.3% at constant 
exchange). Fully diluted adjusted earnings 
per share of 41.1p was up 11.1% (19.8% 
ahead at constant exchange).
Dividends
The Board of Directors recommends a  
final dividend of 12.6p per share (2013: 
10.6p), an increase of 18.9%. This takes  
the FY 2014 dividend to 18.3p per share 
(+18.8% versus FY 2013).
Net working capital
Net working capital is defined as 
“inventories plus trade & other receivables 
less trade & other payables, adjusted to 
exclude deferred consideration receivable / 
payable, interest accruals / capital 
payables and other normalising items.”
Net working capital of £101.4m was  
£15.7m higher than the 31 December 2013 
level of £85.7m as a result of acquisitions 
and growth. The net working capital / 
revenue ratio reduced to 11.3% excluding 
the acquisition of Abric Seals (2013: 11.4% 
at constant exchange, excluding the 
acquisition of Mesan) due to continued 
efforts to utilise the Company’s working 
capital more efficiently.
Cash flow
Operating cash flow was broadly 
unchanged, at £107 .0m (2013: £107 .2m). 
This included an outflow of net working 
capital for the year of £25.4m (2013: £5.3m) 
and gross capital expenditure of £38.1m 
(2013: £44.1m), with net capital expenditure 
at £33.1m (2013: £43.7m). Net capital 
expenditure equated to 122% (2013: 164%) 
of the depreciation charge for the year  
of £27 .2m (2013: £26.7m).
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
16
FINANCIAL REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT | FINANCIAL REVIEW Net interest paid was £8.5m (2013: £9.3m) 
and tax payments increased by £3.0m to 
£20.5m (2013: £17 .5m). The outflow in 
respect of pension obligations was  
lower at £2.5m (2013: £6.1m).
 
Free cash flow of £75.5m compared  
to £74.2m in FY 2013.
Free cash flow reconciliation (£m)
Adjusted operating profit 142.5
Non-cash / other items 23.0
Net working capital (25.4)
Net capital expenditure (33.1)
Adjusted operating cash flow 107.0
Tax paid (20.5)
Net interest paid (8.5)
Pension contributions (2.5)
Free cash flow 75.5
Net debt
Net debt at the end of the period was  
£62.1m, a decrease of £155.0m from  
1 January 2014, owing to strong free cash 
flow generation and the proceeds from  
the share placing to fund the acquisition  
of Clondalkin SPD. 
The Company’s financial ratios remain 
strong. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA 
as at 31 December 2014 was 0.4x
(31 December 2013: 1.3x) and interest  
cover was 15.5x (31 December 2012: 13.0x).
Balance sheet
At the end of 2014, the Company 
had shareholders’ funds of £592.8m 
(2013: £398.8m), an increase of 48.6%. 
Net debt was £62.1m (2013: £217 .1m) 
and total capital employed in the  
business was £659.9m (2013: £620.1m).
This finances non-current assets of 
£671.9m (2013: £638.7m), of which  
£230.5m (2013: £213.7m) is tangible fixed 
assets, the remainder being intangible 
assets, deferred tax assets, retirement  
benefit assets and long-term receivables. 
The Company has net working capital of 
£101.4m (2013: £85.7m), current provisions 
of £4.2m (2013: £12.3m) and long-term 
liabilities other than borrowings of  
£83.4m (2013: £66.9m). The return on 
average invested capital (including 
intangibles) was 17 .3% (2013: 18.4%),  
owing to acquisitions during the year.
Pensions
As at 31 December 2014, the Company’s 
IAS 19 pension liability was £1.7m (2013: 
asset of £10.6m) and the associated 
deferred tax asset was £2.9m (2013: 
deferred tax liability of £1.6m). The  
pension asset has been calculated  
after updating asset values and certain 
assumptions as at 31 December 2014.
Treasury policy and controls
Essentra has a centralised treasury 
function to control external borrowing 
and manage exchange risk. Treasury 
policies are approved by the Board and 
cover the nature of the exposure to be 
hedged, the types of financial investments 
that may be employed and the criteria for 
investing and borrowing cash. The 
Company uses derivatives only to manage 
foreign currency and interest rate risk 
arising from underlying business activities. 
No transactions of a speculative nature 
are undertaken.
Treasury activities are subject to 
independent reviews by the Group 
Assurance department. Underlying policy 
assumptions and activities are reviewed 
by the Treasury Committee.
Controls over exposure changes and 
transaction authenticity are in place,  
and dealings are restricted to those  
banks with the relevant combination of 
geographical presence and suitable credit 
rating. Essentra monitors the credit ratings 
of its counterparties and credit exposure 
to each counterparty.
Foreign exchange risk 
The majority of Essentra’s net assets  
are in currencies other than sterling. The 
Company’s normal policy is to limit the 
translation exposure and the resulting 
impact on shareholders’ funds by 
borrowing in those currencies in which 
the Company has significant net assets. 
As at 31 December 2014, Essentra’s  
US dollar-denominated assets were 
approximately 48% hedged by its  
US dollar-denominated borrowings.  
At 31 December 2014, Essentra did not 
have any euro-denominated borrowings.
The majority of Essentra’s transactions are 
carried out in the functional currencies of 
its operations, and so transaction exposure 
is limited. However, where they do occur, 
the Company’s policy is to hedge the 
exposures as soon as they are committed 
using forward foreign exchange contracts.
MATTHEW GREGORY
Group Finance Director
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
17
FINANCIAL REVIEW Component 
& Protection 
Solutions 
The division is a global, market-leading 
provider of a rapid supply of plastic 
and metal products for a broad range 
of industrial applications.
Who we are and what we do
The Components business is a global, 
market-leading manufacturer and 
distributor of an extensive range of  
plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip 
moulded and metal items. Operating  
units in 27 countries serve over 150,000 
customers with a rapid supply of essential 
components for a variety of applications 
in a very broad range of industries, such 
as equipment manufacturing, automotive, 
fabrication, electronics and construction.
The Pipe Protection Technologies business 
specialises in the manufacture of high 
performance innovative products from 
commodity resins to engineering-grade 
thermoplastics and polymer alloys for  
use in a range of end-markets. Locations 
in four countries, combined with a wide 
distributor network, serve customers 
around the world.
How we do it
Our objective is to leverage our  
extensive product range and distribution 
capability, using our efficient sourcing and 
manufacturing operations and integrated 
IT platform, to respond to the demands  
of our diverse customer base. Our tool 
library, product development skills and 
manufacturing experience, combined with 
our inventory and logistics infrastructure, 
are unique assets. We have sophisticated 
business-to-business, multi-channel 
marketing expertise, and support this 
with our knowledgeable sales resource 
and comprehensive product catalogues, 
which are available in many languages 
and online.
We target organic growth through 
increasing the range of our products, 
expanding our customer base and 
entering new geographic markets. 
We also seek opportunities to grow 
through acquisition, where it can  
move our business into complementary 
product categories or further our 
geographic distribution capability.
How we performed in 2014
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 8.9% (14.5% at 
constant exchange) to £243.6m.  
Excluding the acquisition of Mesan in 
December 2013, Kelvindale in May 2014 
and Abric Seals in December 2014, 
like-for-like revenue growth was 8.4%  
and was driven by a more positive market 
backdrop and new business wins, as well 
as the roll out of distribution sites and 
range consolidation opportunities.
In Europe, the underlying performance  
was supported by continued improvement 
in the trading environment, and boosted 
by the consolidation benefits of migrating  
the five operating brands to a single 
Essentra Components brand. Growth  
in Asia accelerated during the second half 
of the year, benefiting from the recently-
opened south east Asian distribution hub 
in Changi, Singapore, which now holds  
c. 10,000 SKUs for rapid delivery throughout 
the region. In addition, the Mesan business 
acquired at the end of 2013 performed 
well, with a Components catalogue 
featuring 28,000 products already being 
marketed to Mesan’s customers.
The successful roll-out programme 
continued in 2014, with market entry in 
Thailand, Romania and Mexico. In addition, 
a new distribution centre was opened in 
Louisville, US. While this was not without 
challenge, given that it can cover some  
70% of US manufacturing GDP within  
a two-day shipping window, it is ideally 
located to serve existing customers  
Revenue 
2014: £243.6m 2013: £223.7m +8.9%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £58.9m 2013: £52.6m +12.0%
1
 Before intangible amortisation and 
exceptional operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
18
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS even better and target new customer 
opportunities. Not only does this centre 
hold some 30,000 Components’ SKUs,  
but it is also already stocking certain 
speciality wipes and porous components 
– with the potential to leverage the 
capacity further to encompass more of 
the Essentra Group portfolio over time. 
Pipe Protection Technologies delivered 
further excellent growth in 2014, with 
encouraging performance across all sites 
and supported by successful product 
development and new business wins.  
In particular, our innovative and industry-
compliant MaxX™ range of thread 
protectors continued to perform well, 
underpinned by the recent launch of  
a “liftable” variant designed to service 
drilling wellsite applications that require 
protectors which allow pipes to be lifted 
individually onto the drilling floor. 
The Pipe Protection Technologies business 
also benefited from the transition to the 
new organisational structure, with a 
regional approach in the Americas already 
unlocking potential. Leveraging the 
existing Essentra Group site footprint in 
Alta Parana, Paraguay and Jaguariúna, 
Brazil, facilitated entry into the sizeable 
latter market for the first time, where 
investment in polyurethane rise pipe 
protector capability will help continue  
the successful commercialisation of  
the growth opportunity.
Adjusted operating profit grew 12.0% 
(+18.2% at constant exchange) to £58.9m, 
equating to a 70bps uplift in the margin  
to 24.2%. This improvement was driven by 
further operating and process efficiencies, 
as well as savings from the ongoing 
consolidation of the Components’  
site footprint.
Complemented by value-adding M&A
On 12 May, we announced that we had 
completed the acquisition of 100% of  
the share capital of Kelvindale. Based in 
Australia, Kelvindale is a leading distributor 
of an extensive range of plastic protection 
Revenue by destination (%)
Europe and Africa 47.5
Americas 46.3
Asia including Middle East 6.2
Revenue by end-market (%)
Oil and gas 22.7
Fabrication machinery 20.3
Distributors 13.4
Automotive 9.3
Electrical / electronics 8.0
Hydraulics / pneumatics 4.3
Other 22.0
Revenue (£m)
2010 108.5
2011 135.9
2012 208.4
2013 223.7
2014 243.6
Operating profit
1
 (£m)
2010 23.4
2011 31.1
2012 45.9
2013 52.6
2014 58.9
Operating margin
1
(%)
2010 21.6
2011 22.9
2012 22.0
2013 23.5
2014 24.2
Revenue per employee (£k)
2010 156.1
2011 157.6
2012 146.0
2013 158.3
2014 143.5
and finishing products, and provides a 
compelling market entry point for the 
Components business. Having introduced 
some 12,000 products onto Kelvindale’s 
website since completion, over 25% of  
its sales now comes from the Essentra 
Components range, and the integration  
of the acquisition to date is in line  
with expectations.
Then, on 16 December, we reported that 
we had completed the acquisition of 100% 
of the share capital of Abric Seals. Based  
in Malaysia, Abric Seals is a global leading 
manufacturer and distributor of security 
sealing products and solutions for use in  
a diverse range of growing end-markets, 
including healthcare, manufacturing, 
energy, retail, transportation and 
automotive. With low-cost manufacturing 
facilities in Malaysia and Thailand, Abric 
Seals’ distribution network additionally 
covers 88 countries, with a strong focus  
on Asia Pacific which accounts for 
approximately 40% of revenue.
Improving operational excellence
Towards the end of the year, we opened 
two new, purpose-built distribution centres 
in Bologna, Italy and Roissy, France. These 
investments provide the necessary space 
to accommodate the Components’ rapidly 
expanding product range in two 
strategically important European markets, 
and underscore our commitment to 
providing our customers with even greater 
product choice and availability, combined 
with the best possible delivery and service 
proposition. 
As anticipated, the recently-acquired 
Mesan facility in Turkey achieved OHSAS 
18001 certification during the year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
19
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS 2015 key initiatives
 > Further site roll out in Components  
in Dubai, Korea and Ireland
 > Grow Pipe Protection Technologies 
presence in South America
 > Continue to expand Components 
range in springs and magnets, and 
globalise product offering
 > Successfully integrate acquisition  
of Abric Seals in Malaysia
 > Exploit new eCommerce platform  
and upgrade of CRM system
Market trends 
Given their very wide application, 
the global market for industrial 
components is large, fragmented  
and ill-defined for both suppliers and 
customers. However, management 
estimates the value of the available 
market for low cost direct material 
components at c. £4.5bn pa.
Manufacturing GDP growth rate
With low cost direct material components 
being used in a very broad spectrum of 
industrial end-markets, those countries 
with a higher manufacturing GDP growth 
rate are particularly attractive.
Increased use of standard components
There is an increasing move to small, 
specialised manufacturing businesses, 
which assemble their specialised parts 
and equipment from a range of standard 
components. This approach provides them 
with flexibility, the ability to move quickly 
and provide their own customers with the 
service they require.
Just-in-time delivery
As customers are required to deliver 
their own products “just-in-time”, so 
their demand for critical components 
from their suppliers is increasingly on 
the same basis.
Increasing labour costs
Standardised manufacturing processes 
and components typically require less 
labour, thereby helping customers  
reduce their cost base. There is also a  
trend among larger customers to design  
in “higher technology” markets such  
as the US, UK, Germany, Japan and 
Singapore, and then to manufacture  
in lower labour cost regions (eg, eastern 
Europe, China and India), which benefits 
component suppliers with global reach.
Industry specification
As end-markets become more sophisticated 
and demanding, so the requirement for 
higher quality components increases.  
Over and above this more general trend, 
certain customers – notably those in the oil 
and gas industry – are increasingly facing 
regulatory guidelines in terms of the 
specification of the components they use.
Key new product opportunities
 > Continue range expansion, to provide 
customers with the broadest selection 
of components
 > Develop new sectors for existing 
customer base, such as hardware
 > Globalise successful local products 
through established supply chain
 > Enter new and adjacent product 
markets, such as point of purchase
 > Launch products which are compliant 
with new industry standards
What we measure
NUMBER OF ACTIVE CUSTOMERS
Why we measure it
Reflects marketing effectiveness 
and measures the potential population 
for future growth opportunities
How we have done
15% decrease in customers purchasing in 
the prior 12 months compared to 2013,  
reflecting the consolidation to a single 
Essentra brand
NEW CUSTOMER ACQUISITION
Why we measure it
Reflects the success of targeting organic 
growth opportunities
How we have done
46,699 new customers compares with 
64,517 in 2013, and reflects the 
consolidation to a single Essentra brand
MARKETING RESPONSES
Why we measure it
Indicates the potential revenue generating 
impact of marketing investment
How we have done 
7% decrease in marketing responses  
versus 2013, reflecting the consolidation  
to a single Essentra brand
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet delivery 
demands
How we have done
86.4% compares to 90.4% in 2013
Further information on
www.essentracomponents.com
www.essentrapipeprotection.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
20
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS Porous  
Technologies
The division is a world leader in the 
development and manufacture of 
customised liquid and vapour handling 
products engineered from three 
material technologies: bonded and 
non-woven fibre, polyurethane foam 
and porous plastic.
Revenue 
2014: £89.8m 2013: £100.0m -10.2%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £15.8m 2013: £23.5m -32.8%
Who we are and what we do
Our range consists of components 
which serve as a critical part of a variety 
of end-products, including medical 
diagnostic devices, wound care products, 
writing instruments, printer cartridges, 
air fresheners, cosmetic applicators  
and speciality wiping products used  
in critical environments such as clean 
rooms and laboratories.
How we do it
Our objective is to leverage our technical 
expertise in collaboration with our 
customers, to provide them with 
innovative, high quality, reliable, quick- 
to-market solutions to their respective  
fluid and vapour handling challenges.
The division’s R&D teams focus on each 
of our three material technologies and 
constantly develop new intellectual 
property regarding materials, processes 
and applications, with a view to providing 
new and existing customers with unique 
solutions. Our orientation towards R&D 
further enables us to offer prototypes and 
modifications, to ensure components fit 
perfectly to our customers’ applications.
We seek to use our global footprint to 
provide our customers with shorter lead 
times and supply security. As our multiple 
locations utilise many identical proprietary 
processes and independent supply chains, 
we are able to provide a reliable source of 
back-up supply capability around the 
world. In addition, our global outlook 
allows us to respond to the various needs 
of our customers in differing geographies 
and cultures.
Quality is at the forefront of the division’s 
efforts, given the critical role many of  
our components play in our customers’ 
end-products. Our production sites are 
ISO 9001:2008 compliant, and our facility 
in St. Charles, US is also ISO 13485:2003 
certified. Quality laboratories at each of 
our facilities provide consistency checks 
throughout the production process, 
to assure reliability and satisfaction  
to our customers.
How we performed in 2014
Revenue decreased -10.2% (-5.7%  
at constant exchange) to £89.8m.  
Adjusting for the transfer of a portion  
of intercompany revenue to the Filter 
Products division, like-for-like growth  
was -4.5%.
An increase of 41% in household and 
personal care (together c. 10% divisional 
revenue) was driven by significant new 
business wins in air care with multinational 
customers, while growth of 21% in 
speciality wipes (c. 23% divisional revenue) 
came from the ongoing success of 
globalising the product portfolio and new 
applications in critical care environments. 
Healthcare (c. 22% divisional revenue) rose 
9%, led by wound care and products using 
porous plastics.
In writing instruments (c. 29% divisional 
revenue), new sales of nibs to global 
customers were offset by the impact of  
a more challenging market backdrop, such 
that the total result decreased by -3%.  
As anticipated, the performance in printer 
systems (c. 15% divisional revenue) of 
-44% reflected the impact of inventory 
destocking with a major global OEM, where 
shipments recommenced in the second half 
of the year and improved in Q4.
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
21
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES In 2014, the division continued its track 
record of converting its intellectual 
property and manufacturing know-how 
into commercial success. This included 
customer qualifications of superior 
medical grade foam for wound care 
applications, new platform wins with  
an Asian printer systems OEM and initial 
orders in both water and automotive 
engine filtration. 
The business also collaborated in product 
development with other Essentra divisions by 
providing innovative porous components. 
One such successful initiative was the 
AquaSense™ consumer packaging label, 
which features a unique absorbent pad that 
is activated by the consumer on opening the 
pack or tub. The pad is placed under a tap 
and soaks up a specific amount of water 
which it then releases within the pack, 
keeping contents fresh, controlling humidity 
and reducing product waste due to goods 
drying out. In addition, the division was 
pleased to support the commercialisation  
of Essentra’s range of smokeless nicotine 
devices by developing a unique and superior 
reservoir technology. The Essentra patented 
process allows for the formation of rigid 
three-dimensional structures acting as a 
reservoir that can hold, transfer and deliver 
nicotine and other liquids prior to conversion 
to a vapour state.
Adjusted operating profit decreased 
-32.8% (-29.3% at constant exchange)  
to £15.8m and the margin declined by 
590bps. Successful cost reduction 
initiatives and productivity improvements 
were offset by the mix effect of the 
aforementioned inventory destocking, 
with margins returning towards more 
normalised levels in the second half of  
the year, as anticipated.
Investing in operational excellence  
and execution
A number of operational initiatives were 
completed during the year. To support 
global growth opportunities, a new nib 
product development line was installed  
at the Richmond, US site, facilitating  
both product development and rapid 
turnaround sampling. In addition, and 
building on the extension of the sterile 
alcohol bottling facility undertaken  
in 2013, there was further investment  
in new laminator and sachet lines in 
Chicopee, US, to support further growth 
and range expansion opportunities in 
speciality wipes.
As anticipated, our facility in Reinbek, 
Germany achieved ISO 50001 status  
in 2014.
2015 key initiatives
 > Focus on infection prevention / control 
for new medical components and 
antimicrobial wound care foam 
 > Install a new cleanroom to 
manufacture medical components
 > Increase sales of writing instrument nibs 
made from porous plastic, combined 
with investment in new production 
equipment in Asia and the Americas
 > Expand offering in industrial air filtration
 > Reinforce global distribution network 
in speciality wipes, and exploit 
cross-selling opportunities
 > Develop new insecticide and innovative 
new air freshener wick opportunities 
Revenue by destination (%)
Americas 49.0
Europe and Africa 26.9
Asia including Middle East 24.1
Revenue by end-market (%)
Writing instruments 29.0
Health care 23.1
Clean room 20.1
Printer systems 15.5
Household products 9.6
Other 2.7
Revenue (£m)
2010 74.7
2011 77.9
2012 85.8
2013 100.0
2014 89.8
Operating profit
1
 (£m)
2010 17.7
2011 18.4
2012 20.6
2013 23.5
2014 15.8
Operating margin
1
 (%)
2010 23.7
2011 23.6
2012 24.0
2013 23.5
2014 17.6
Revenue per employee (£k)
2010 164.2
2011 170.2
2012 155.6
2013 163.7
2014 161.2
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
22
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES Market trends
Management estimates the global 
addressable market for our porous 
technologies products at around  
£1.2bn, with low to high single-digit 
growth. The underlying growth rates  
and key trends vary depending on the 
end-market served and the respective  
fluid or vapour handling challenge  
being addressed.
Printing systems: performance 
improvements
While the market shows a degree of 
uncertainty given trading difficulties 
reported by certain OEMs, customers 
continue to look to enhance the 
performance of their products, such  
as through the use of increasingly  
complex inks.
Healthcare: enhanced fluid handling 
capabilities and changing customer / 
patient needs
Market growth is partly driven by the 
migration from slower and more expensive 
laboratory-based testing to results being 
provided at the point of care.
In addition, a globally ageing population  
is resulting in a change in the incidence  
of medical conditions (such as diabetes) 
which require advanced wound  
care products.
Household & personal care: emerging 
market growth
Consumers are increasingly transitioning 
to more sophisticated household and 
personal care products.
Non-woven products: growing 
requirement for sensitive environments
Industries such as electronics increasingly 
operate in controlled environments, while 
others (eg, hospitals) have a requirement 
for clean room conditions to combat 
infection and / or contamination risk.
Writing instruments: range expansion
Customers are increasingly looking for  
a total solutions provider – from ink 
reservoirs to nibs.
Key new product opportunities
 > Improved technologies to further 
enhance fluid and vapour handling 
capability
 > Additional technology platforms, to 
take advantage of new end-market 
opportunities
 > Further range expansion
 > Investment in faster-growing product 
end-markets, such as medical
 > Continued focus on customer 
partnerships
What we measure
INNOVATION – PERCENTAGE OF SALES 
DERIVED FROM NEW PRODUCTS
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the success of new products 
and technologies 
How we have done
13.8% of revenue generated from products 
launched in the last three years
SUSTAINED IP DEVELOPMENT
Why we measure it
Continued development of intellectual 
property to support future growth and 
strong development project pipeline
How we have done
Currently 38 (2013: 28) patents in  
force in the US, with 10 (2013: 18) 
applications pending
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems  
and service delivery
How we have done
81 complaints, being a 4.7% decrease 
versus 2013
MAN HOURS PER MACHINE HOUR
Why we measure it
Indicative of shop floor productivity
How we have done
1.73 (2013: 1.77) man hours per  
machine hour
Further information on
www.essentraporoustechnologies.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
23
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES Packaging 
& Securing Solutions
The division is a leading global  
supplier to the health and personal care, 
consumer and specialist packaging 
sectors, and to the point of purchase 
and paper & board industries. It is also 
a leading provider of brand protection 
and identity solutions.
Revenue 
2014: £216.3m 2013: £181.8m +19.0%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £38.3m 2013: £30.2m +26.8%
Who we are and what we do
The Packaging & Securing Solutions 
division comprises the following activities:
Essentra Packaging is a global provider  
of healthcare and consumer packaging 
products. Our “Packaging Resolved” 
positioning emphasises the four core 
themes of Open, Close, Inform and 
Protect, where our cartons, tapes,  
leaflets, foils, labels and brand protection 
security solutions can combine to provide 
all or merely one of these benefits. From 
helping to ensure that consumers do  
not get frustrated in opening packs to 
providing the reassurance that goods  
are fresh and have not been tampered 
with, our packaging components can be 
an integral part of the product and brand 
pack experience. 
Essentra Security is Europe’s leading 
provider of ID card printers, systems and 
accessories to direct and trade customers, 
providing the broadest product offering 
and most competitive value.
Essentra Speciality Tapes is a leading 
manufacturer and distributor of adhesive 
coated products for a wide range of 
industries and applications, in particular 
the point of purchase sector.
Collectively, the division serves customers in 
over 100 countries from facilities operating 
in ten countries. They are supported by an 
in-house design studio, R&D and multi-
million pound print facilities, to deliver the 
very best in quality, service and reliability. 
How we do it
Our objective is to use our business 
development philosophy and resources 
to identify innovation opportunities 
and translate these into novel, workable 
solutions. We seek to leverage our 
well-invested and developing international 
footprint to provide market-leading quality 
and service on a global basis, and to add 
value for both customers and consumers.
The Packaging business manufactures 
a range of cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, 
labels, closures and seals which offer 
functional benefits to packaged goods 
through providing easy opening and 
resealability. Our products are also the 
ideal medium to carry sophisticated 
branding and communications’ messages, 
in the form of printed images, text or data. 
Additionally, we look to add value to our 
customers’ packaging through providing 
brand protection solutions, such as tamper 
evidence or authentication technologies,  
to enable them to identify and secure 
products in the fight against counterfeiting. 
Our offering comprises overt, covert and 
forensic technologies.
The Security business has been at 
the forefront of ID technology for over 
30 years, and has access to the widest 
portfolio of products and services, including 
printers, software and consumables from 
leading manufacturers. Our systems 
produce durable, high quality, credit 
card-style photo ID cards which are 
compatible with the majority of security 
systems, and which can be specified to 
incorporate magstripes, barcodes, 
contactless chips or smart cards. To 
complement our ID card systems, the 
Security business also offers a range  
of manual and electronic visitor 
management systems, as well as an 
extensive range of ID accessories such 
as badge holders, clips and lanyards.
The Speciality Tapes’ business has 
expertise in coating multiple adhesive 
systems in numerous technologies. With 
close to 3,000 adhesive products available 
for same-day shipping, our products can 
meet all high performance needs, from 
foam, magnetic, finger lift and acrylic 
high bond tapes to hook and loop and 
non-skid foam.
1
 Before intangible amortisation  
and exceptional operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
24
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS How we performed in 2014
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 19.0% (22.0% at 
constant exchange) to £216.3m. Adjusting 
for the healthcare packaging acquisitions 
of Contego and Dakota with effect from 
30 April 2014, like-for-like growth was 4.7%.
The result in Packaging reflected a positive 
performance in healthcare and consumer 
packaging – and boosted by new product 
launches – partially offset by tear tape 
sales to the tobacco industry, where 
market conditions remain challenging.
2014 was another strong year for 
successful packaging innovation. In 
healthcare packaging, we introduced  
the Parenteral Paper Pack carton, a  
new concept in display boxes designed 
specifically for fragile items such as vials, 
bottles and syringes. A variety of our overt 
and covert tamper and authentication 
solutions can also be built into this carton, 
to protect against potential counterfeit  
or tampering – including holography, 
Patron™ security inks, taggant systems 
and tamper-evident labels – which can 
form a vital component of the measures 
required to meet the EU Falsified Medicines 
Directive. And among our innovative 
leaflet formats were the PiggyBack™  
and Triple PiggyBack™ two or three-fold 
leaflets glued together back-to-back in  
a compact design, as well as Plurium™, a 
multi-page booklet with additional space 
for information but compact when folded.
Building on the Packaging Resolved 
commercial positioning around the  
four key aspects of effective packaging 
launched in 2013, our Re:Close Tape™  
was created in response to growing 
consumer demand. The tape allows a 
product to be retained in the original  
pack between uses and has added 
user-friendly reclosability to millions of 
packs of bagged snacks on-shelf in 
Europe, thereby facilitating portion 
control. And as part of our Protect range, 
we also developed and jointly patented 
AquaSense™ with the Porous Technologies 
division, the first example of Essentra’s 
Active Label Technology and further details 
of which can be found on page 22.
Growth in Speciality Tapes was driven by a 
strong performance in the industrial, point 
of purchase and online shopping end-
markets. Finger Lift tape continued to 
perform well, benefiting from our recent 
expansion of hot melt capability at the 
Chicago, US site, and was supported by 
the Foam and Duraco Red tape ranges. 
From a geographical perspective, the 
result reflected a particularly strong 
contribution from the growing Express 
footprint in North America, boosted by 
encouraging performance in China.
Adjusted operating profit increased 26.8% 
(30.0% at constant exchange) to £38.3m. 
The 110bps improvement in the margin  
to 17 .7% was driven by accelerating 
healthcare acquisition synergies, 
combined with ongoing cost savings  
and efficiency initiatives. 
Complemented by value-creating M&A
In November, we announced an agreement 
to acquire Clondalkin SPD, which will further 
expand our packaging solutions’ capabilities 
to the pharmaceutical, health and personal 
care industries.
As a leading global provider of a broad 
suite of speciality secondary packaging 
solutions, the transaction transforms 
Essentra’s position in these targeted 
end-markets. In addition, as a leading 
player in North America and with strong 
market positions in Europe, Clondalkin  
SPD significantly enhances our existing 
geographic presence in healthcare 
packaging and, through leveraging  
the combined footprint of both our 
businesses, will allow us to further  
exploit both existing, and attractive  
new growth opportunities.
With a product portfolio including folding 
carton, product literature and labels, 
Clondalkin SPD is complementary to our 
existing packaging and authentication 
capabilities, thereby broadening the  
range and innovation we can offer our 
customers, who are increasingly seeking a 
global partner for their packaging needs.
 
Investing in operational excellence  
and execution
In 2014, we successfully completed a 
number of operational initiatives to  
help support future revenue growth 
opportunities and to generate further 
efficiency savings. In healthcare packaging, 
new, more energy / waste efficient 
equipment was installed in a number  
of European facilities, with our sites at 
Portsmouth, Bradford and Newmarket,  
UK and Dublin, Ireland also all successfully 
passing ethical audits on the part of 
customers. In addition, and as anticipated, 
the site at Wolfen, Germany secured  
ISO 50001 accreditation.
Towards the end of the year, we  
officially opened our new purpose-built 
manufacturing facility in Newport, UK, 
which provides us with a 52,000 sq. ft. site 
from which to meet the growing demands 
of both existing and new business across 
our targeted end-markets. The facility 
incorporates our latest investment in 
digital printing and cleanroom technology 
for the production of primary packaging 
foils for the healthcare market. To ensure 
the exacting requirements are fulfilled for 
this new product, the cleanroom meets 
the Class 8 ISO standards and is a first for 
Essentra, enabling us to better service our 
healthcare customers from this world class 
operation. The site already meets all of the 
Company’s internal standards, having 
gained the triple certification of ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, as well as the 
BRC / IoP global standard for packaging 
and packaging materials.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
25
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS 2015 key initiatives
 > Further develop innovative, creative 
and functional packaging solutions
 > Successfully integrate Clondalkin  
SPD acquisition and deliver  
integration savings
 > Grow market shares in health, beauty 
and personal care packaging
 > Leverage geographical footprint  
and account management discipline 
to increase customer relevance and 
revenue potential
 > Use existing packaging expertise  
to build a position in faster-growing 
opportunity markets
 > Continue geographic expansion  
and commercialisation of new 
end-markets in Speciality Tapes
Revenue by destination (%)
Europe and Africa 75.3
Americas 18.0
Asia including Middle East 6.7
Revenue by end-market (%)
Healthcare 52.3
Tobacco 15.7
Document & identity solutions 7.0
Consumer goods 7.0
Transit packaging 4.4
Other 13.6
Revenue (£m)
2010 88.8
2011 99.7
2012 114.9
2013 181.8
2014 216.3
Operating profit
1
 (£m)
2010 18.2
2011 20.3
2012 21.8
2013 30.2
2014 38.3
Operating margin
1
(%)
2010 20.5
2011 20.3
2012 19.0
2013 16.6
2014 17.7
Revenue per employee (£k)
2010 187.7
2011 190.4
2012 193.2
2013 143.8
2014 142.6
What we measure
INNOVATION – PERCENTAGE OF  
SALES DERIVED FROM RECENTLY 
DEVELOPED PRODUCTS
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the success of new  
products and technologies
How we have done
27 .9% of revenue generated from  
products launched in the last three  
years (excluding acquisitions)
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems  
and service delivery
How we have done
90.2% compares to 95.8% in 2013 
(excluding acquisitions)
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION – CUSTOMER 
COMPLAINTS
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems  
and delivery
How we have done
7 .9% decrease in complaints from  
2013 (excluding acquisitions)
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
26
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS Market trends
Management estimates the value of the 
global market addressable for specialist 
secondary health and personal care 
packaging, pressure sensitive tear tapes  
and speciality tapes at c. £10bn, growing  
at a low to mid single-digit level depending 
on the end-markets served.
Increasing consumer communication
Packaging is increasingly used to 
communicate brand messages, and to 
engage with consumers via promotions 
or competitions.
Functionality and convenience of 
packaging
There is a growing demand for packaging 
which not only offers optimum product 
protection, but is also easy for consumers 
to access without frustration.
Brand and identity protection and 
verification
Brand owners have a continued need to 
protect their assets from counterfeiters, 
while public and private organisations 
require secure identification of individuals.
Legislation
Increasing regulatory requirements, 
such as the European Falsified Medicines 
Directive, are driving demand for tamper 
evident packaging, while the more 
standardised pack requirements of the  
EU Tobacco Products Directive potentially 
limit the scope for innovative solutions.
Sustainability and waste reduction
There is a growing need for packaging 
to be resealable so as to maintain 
freshness and reduce waste, as well as 
to have a lower environmental impact. 
Provision of total solutions
Customers are increasingly seeking 
a partner which can deliver a complete 
offering – from design to end-supply 
– as well as individual products capable 
of providing multiple pack benefits. 
Key new product opportunities
 > Investment in technology, to develop 
novel, value-added packaging and 
brand protection solutions
 > Functional packaging benefits, such as 
opening, closing and tamper evidence
 > Eco-friendly packaging solutions, such 
as closing and resealing
 > Creative and secure design solutions 
to provide enhanced communication 
and authentication opportunities
Further information on:
www.essentrapackaging.com
www.essentrasecurity.com
www.essentraspecialtytapes.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
27
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS Filter Products
The division is the only global 
independent provider of filters  
and related solutions to the  
tobacco industry.
Who we are and what we do
The Filter Products division is the only 
global independent supplier of filters. 
Not only do we offer standard filters, 
but as the leading supplier of special  
filters we offer innovative solutions that 
meet the consumer-driven demands of 
the tobacco industry against a backdrop 
of ongoing legislative changes.
We also increasingly provide adjacent 
services to the tobacco industry. Our 
Scientific Services facility located in the  
UK was one of the first independent 
externally accredited laboratories for the 
testing of cigarettes, cigarette filters, 
smokeless devices (such as e-cigarettes) 
and low ignition propensity (“LIP”) for 
cigarette papers, and has over 20 years’ 
experience of providing analytical services  
to state monopolies and both independent 
and multinational customers. Additionally, 
we offer a full bespoke range for the 
design, packing and packaging of filters for 
roll your own brands, providing an efficient 
and cost-effective solution to delivering 
retail-ready products to the market.
The Filter Products division supplies 
over 700 product specifications to  
more than 320 customers, including all  
the multinational tobacco companies.  
We have nine manufacturing facilities  
in nine countries, supported by a 
dedicated research facility and three 
regional development centres.
How we do it
Innovation is at the heart of our business, 
and our objective is to develop value-
creating partnerships with our customers. 
We seek to leverage our long-standing 
experience, expertise and insight to 
provide brand differentiation and  
identity solutions, as well as excellence  
in both manufacturing and service.  
Our recognised ability to provide new 
value-added products and services is key 
to the division’s future growth, as market 
dynamics in the tobacco industry continue 
to evolve.
Research in filters is carried out at a 
dedicated Technology Centre, supported 
by three regional development facilities. 
Together, they work closely with customers 
to understand their specific needs, and 
strive to deliver innovative solutions which 
will give their brands differentiation and 
relevance, at a pace appropriate to local 
market conditions and legislative 
requirements. Our offering is further 
enhanced by our ability to complement 
our customers’ own strengths and assets 
in a variety of tolling, or outsourced 
management, relationship arrangements, 
as well as our growing adjacent services 
activities.
We continuously upgrade our technology 
and footprint, to ensure we exceed our 
customers’ expectations and remain at 
the forefront of market trends. Our flexible 
global manufacturing capability allows 
us to respond rapidly to market changes 
and customer demand for surge volumes, 
while a consistent focus on high standards 
of quality, cost control and production 
efficiency act as further sources of 
competitive advantage.
How we performed in 2014
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 8.0% (16.2% at constant 
exchange) to £291.5m. Underlying  
volumes were ahead of the prior year,  
with particularly strong growth in Asia,  
and in both special and flavoured filters.  
In FY 2014, Asia accounted for 59% volumes 
(FY 2013: 61%).
2014 saw the successful launch of a 
number of proprietary new products  
and development initiatives, as well as  
the successful commercialisation of recent 
contract wins. Among our innovations 
during the period was Dual Sensation™,  
a new filter solution which enables a 
capsule segment to be combined in a 
multi-segment filter, giving customers 
greater design flexibility to provide their 
consumers with flavour on demand and 
the benefits of either carbon or a visually 
distinctive design. This innovation was also 
Revenue 
2014: £291.5m 2013: £269.9m +8.0%
Operating profit
1
 
2014: £43.9m 2013: £40.1m +9.5%
1
 Before intangible amortisation  
and exceptional operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
28
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS introduced as Super Slim Sensation™, 
bringing the same interactive capsule 
technology to smaller circumference 
cigarettes and thereby catering to the 
fastest growing segment in the tobacco 
market. In addition, we announced our 
latest advance in degradability, with the 
launch of a unique plugwrap material that 
disperses in water at least three times 
faster than standard alternatives, 
addressing increasing public concerns over 
the degradability of cigarette butts and 
the corresponding demand for more 
environmentally-friendly products.
During the year, we continued our track 
record of supporting customers in the 
development of bespoke solutions tailored 
to their specific needs, with such joint 
activity increasing 11% versus FY 2013.  
In support of our future innovation 
capabilities through ongoing intellectual 
property, a total of nine patent and 
trademark applications were filed in 2014. 
Our Scientific Services laboratory 
continued to perform well, further building 
on its extensive experience and expanded 
range of accredited testing methods.  
The growth was boosted by our expertise 
in field of e-cigarettes, which has 
significantly contributed to our becoming 
the largest independent tobacco testing 
laboratory in Europe.
As an innovator and trusted partner to  
the tobacco industry, it is essential that  
we identify and respond to evolving 
markets’ trends which impact our 
customers in a way that enables us  
to continue to add value to them. As  
such, we were pleased to launch a new, 
full-service e-cigarette offering during the 
year, to allow them to meet the growing 
global demand for smokeless nicotine 
products. Indeed, following extensive 
research and development, we successfully 
commercialised a number of fully-
functional and packaged products, which 
draw upon the broad range of solutions 
which the entire Essentra Group can 
deliver – not merely the Filter Products 
division. In addition, with the backing  
of analytical results from our accredited 
testing laboratory, we can assure 
customers that our e-cigarette solutions 
are not only innovative but also reliable, 
thereby addressing the issue of 
inconsistent performance which our 
in-depth market research identified  
as a key consumer concern.
Adjusted operating profit rose 9.5%  
(18.7% at constant exchange) to £43.9m, 
equating to a 20bps improvement in the 
margin to 15.1%. A further improvement  
in productivity and efficiency initiatives 
– combined with significant savings in the 
second half of the year from the closure  
of our site in Italy – were partially offset  
by the one-off cost of the latter in H1.
Improving operational 
excellence and efficiency
In order to ensure that we continue to 
deliver value, we are committed to 
maintaining a flexible and competitive 
geographic footprint. With our customers 
continuing to shift their production from 
western to eastern Europe and Asia,  
during the year we took the decision  
to expand our facility in Hungary and  
to close the site in Italy. 
We also expanded our state-of-the-art 
joint venture facility in Dubai, UAE, which 
is well-positioned to meet the requirements 
of cigarette manufacturers based in the 
Middle East and North Africa region for 
innovative filter products and solutions, 
supported by our extensive technical 
experience and expertise. As anticipated, 
this site attained both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 
18001 accreditations during the year.
In 2014, we continued our investment in 
high-speed equipment to underpin our 
objective of improving capability and 
capacity, not least in Thailand where  
the expansion of the facility and the 
installation of the latest machines will 
support a long-term supply agreement 
with a multinational customer. 
Not only does such investment allow us to 
continue to meet our customers’ current 
needs in terms of quality and functional 
tolerances, but also their future 
requirements as the global tobacco 
industry continues to evolve.
2015 key initiatives
 > Continue to align geographic footprint 
with market shift in production volume
 > Respond to rising demand for new 
filter formats and flavours in Asia  
and the Middle East
 > Improve value proposition in more 
competitive mature markets
 > Strengthen regional R&D capability, to 
support the growing requirement in Asia
 > Rapidly grow e-cigarette offering  
and expand SND range
 > Leverage further benefits from 
investment in high speed, more  
flexible equipment
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
29
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Revenue by destination (%)
Asia including Middle East 39.9
Europe and Africa 38.2
Americas 21.9
Sales volume by type (%)
Monoacetate 44.1
Other special 37.6
Carbon 13.5
Flavour 4.8
Revenue (£m)
2010 200.7
2011 208.0
2012 233.6
2013 269.9
2014 291.5
Operating profit
1
 (£m)
2010 23.7
2011 24.5
2012 28.6
2013 40.1
2014 43.9
Operating margin
1
 (%)
2010 11.8
2011 11.8
2012 12.2
2013 14.9
2014 15.1
Revenue per employee (£k)
2010 126.1
2011 136.2
2012 143.1
2013 163.7
2014 168.3
Market trends
The global tobacco market is valued at 
c. US$740bn, with broadly flat cigarette 
retail volume growth.
Regulation
The tobacco industry is heavily regulated 
around the world on health grounds, with 
significant restrictions on the way in which 
products can be marketed to consumers. 
Legislation continues to evolve, both in 
respect of traditional cigarettes and 
innovations such as e-cigarettes, as well 
as surrounding the testing and packaging 
requirements for these products.
Illicit trade
Counterfeiting of tobacco products is a 
significant and increasing challenge for 
the industry, undermining brand value, 
presenting a risk to consumers from low 
quality goods and reducing tax revenues. 
The illicit trade accounts for approximately 
10% of duty-paid cigarette volumes and is 
estimated to be growing at c. 9% pa – well 
ahead of the overall industry.
 
“Beyond tobacco” products
The market for products beyond traditional 
cigarettes continues to evolve rapidly. 
There is increased interest in other nicotine 
delivery mechanisms which offer heat  
but not burn, in particular in e-cigarettes 
which are reportedly delivering rapid growth 
(albeit from a low base) and which are 
forecast to continue doing so.
East versus West
Accounting for over 60% of total world 
cigarette volume, the growth markets of 
Asia dominate the global tobacco industry 
and are forecast to continue to increase.
Consumer engagement
As per capita income rises – particularly in 
eastern markets – so lifestyles change and 
new segments are created, with different 
consumer expectations and aspirations 
from the products which they purchase. 
As such, there is an increasing demand 
for new products to reflect these changes.
Consumer need
Consumers are increasingly concerned 
with environmental matters, such as 
sustainability and pollution, and the 
impact of products which they purchase. 
Such needs are often unspoken but  
create challenges for the industry to 
supply products which address such 
considerations.
Cost and price
As the price of cigarettes has continued 
to increase, growth opportunities have 
been created for other industry segments 
including roll your own and Other Tobacco 
Products, such as chewing tobacco. 
Key new product opportunities
 > Lifestyle solutions (eg, Slims / Super 
Slims, low / ultra-low tar, “eco” ranges)
 > Brand-specific requirements, such 
as recessed filters
 > Enhanced user experience, such  
as capsules, flavoured thread and 
activated carbon
 > Full bespoke service for roll your 
own brands
 > Provision of scientific services
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
30
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS What we measure
CONVERSION COSTS AS 
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
Why we measure it
Continued focus delivers financial 
performance 
How we have done
25.4%, a 40bps improvement from 
25.8% in 2013
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet 
delivery demands
How we have done
92.1% compares to 96.9% in 2013
QUALITY COMPLAINTS 
PER BILLION RODS
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient 
use of material
How we have done
3.8 complaints per billion rods,  
an increase from 2.7 in 2013
WASTE
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient 
use of material
How we have done
6.7%, a reduction from 8.0% in 2013
Further information on
www.essentrafilters.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
31
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Introduction
The sound management of risk within 
the parameters of a clearly defined risk 
attitude has underpinned the delivery 
of the Company’s Vision 2015 strategy, 
and the management of principal  
risks remains an essential component 
in Drive for 2020. By focusing on the 
challenges which arise in the 
international environment in which 
Essentra conducts business, and 
reflecting the Company’s attitude  
to risk in the delivery of its business 
objectives, Essentra’s risk management 
practices are designed to ensure  
risks are continuously monitored, 
associated action plans are reviewed, 
appropriate contingencies are 
provisioned and information is  
reported through established 
management control procedures.
Essentra seeks continuously to improve 
its risk management processes, and 
continues to develop new systems 
which serve to enhance the Company’s 
response to the risks inherent in its 
international business activities.
Throughout 2014, Essentra embedded  
a new risk management framework that 
includes both Operational and Executive 
Risk Management Committees meeting 
on a quarterly basis, to discuss and 
monitor the changing risk environment  
to which Essentra is exposed and ensure 
any necessary mitigating actions are 
undertaken. The Board and Audit 
Committee review the output from those 
respective committees in fulfilling their risk 
management responsibilities.
Essentra recognises that the ability  
to monitor, assess and respond to  
business risks quickly and effectively  
may provide a competitive advantage. 
Reporting within the Group is structured 
so that key issues are escalated, as 
appropriate, at the earliest opportunity. 
Each area of the business is required to 
review its areas of risk and uncertainty 
formally and regularly. There is an ongoing 
process to ensure that there are clear and 
consistent procedures for monitoring, 
updating and implementing appropriate 
controls to manage identified risks. 
Essentra’s short- and long-term 
performance may be impacted by many 
risks and uncertainties, not all of which  
are within the Company’s control. Outside 
the formal processes, the Company  
also seeks to ensure risk management  
is embedded in its everyday activities  
and the subject of ongoing review  
and discussion.
The Company is subject to the general 
risks and uncertainties which impact  
other international organisations, 
including political instability in the 
countries in which the Company operates 
and sources raw materials, the impact of 
natural disasters and changes in general 
economic conditions, including currency 
and interest rate fluctuations, tax regimes 
and raw material costs.
Detailed on the next page are the principal 
risks and uncertainties which the Board 
believes are specific to Essentra, having 
regard to its strategic objectives, together 
with the Company’s risk management 
response thereto. The details provided are 
not exhaustive and do not purport to be  
a complete explanation of all potentially 
relevant issues. There may be other risks 
and uncertainties which are unknown to 
the Board, or which may not be deemed  
by the Board to be material at present  
but which could prove to be so in  
the future.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
32
STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Disruption to infrastructure
A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of any of Essentra’s manufacturing or distribution facilities due to accident, labour 
issues, fire, terrorist attack, natural disaster, information technology failure, cyber security attack or otherwise which, whether 
short- or long-term, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet the demands of its customers. Some of the assets 
maintained by the Company, such as tooling and IT systems, are critical to the manufacture and delivery of particular products.
Impact Mitigation
A material disruption to operational facilities or the loss of  
critical assets may negatively affect the Company’s:
 > Production capability and asset base
 > Supply chain management
 > Customer relationships
 > Reputation
 > Revenue
 > Profit
 > Financial condition
Essentra seeks to manage the risk of potential disruption of the 
supply of its customers by:
 > Operating within a flexible global infrastructure 
 > Installing fire and other risk prevention systems 
 > Implementing disaster recovery and business continuity plans
 > Assessing operational risks 
 > Maintaining a comprehensive insurance programme
 > Aligning Group information technology resources
 Emerging technologies and competition pressures
Essentra faces pressure from direct competitors, as well as competition from alternative technologies. Some of the Company’s 
competitors may derive advantage from greater financial resources, economies of scale, additional purchasing power or a lower  
cost base, and Essentra may face aggressive pricing practices.
Impact Mitigation
Demand for competitors’ products and the development  
of competing technologies may result in: 
 > Loss of market positions 
 > Erosion of margins 
 > Intellectual property challenges 
 > Decline in revenue 
 > Decline in profitability 
 > Deterioration in financial condition
Essentra seeks to mitigate the risk of competitive pressure by: 
 > Sustained investment in research and development to develop 
the quality and breadth of its product and service offering 
 > Exploiting innovation and manufacturing capabilities in new 
technologies, products and services 
 > Developing long-term relationships with customers at a  
senior level 
 > Protecting its intellectual property rights 
 > Expanding its international distribution, sales and  
marketing expertise 
 > Investing in both organic and acquisition growth opportunities
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
33
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Failure to drive business development
Essentra’s development and growth has benefited from the success of start-up operations and the continued growth of already 
established businesses. The rate of success of any development may in part be dependent on the Group’s innovation pipeline  
and / or employees who have the ability to successfully extend the product range, or identify and develop products. Additionally, 
future business development will be dependent on the continued successful implementation of the new organisational structure. 
There can be no assurance that the Company will develop, complete and commercialise current and suitable new products, nor 
expand further through start-up operations.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra fails to meet the challenges of business  
development, the Company may experience: 
 > Lower growth rates 
 > Delay in the achievement of strategic objectives
 > Reduced profitability
Essentra addresses the challenges of international  
business development with:
 > Experienced and skilled management 
 > Detailed due diligence and planning
 > Project risk reviews
 > External expert advice
 > Regional structure development
 Mergers and acquisitions
Essentra’s development and growth has benefited from value-adding acquisitions. The rate of any future acquisition integration  
may in part be dependent on the success of identifying the correct acquisitions and having sufficient resources available for 
integration. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in completing and integrating suitable acquisitions.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra fails to meet the challenges of business  
development arising from acquisitions the Company  
may experience: 
 > Lower growth rates 
 > Delay in the achievement of strategic objectives 
 > Increased costs 
 > Reduced profitability
Essentra addresses the challenges of mergers and  
acquisitions with: 
 > Experienced and skilled management 
 > Detailed due diligence and planning 
 > Project risk reviews 
 > External expert advice
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
34
STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Customer profile
In some of Essentra’s businesses the customer base is relatively concentrated. In addition, trends in certain markets may reduce  
the demands for the Company’s products. Should Essentra’s customers decide to satisfy their requirements internally or from other 
suppliers and if Essentra were unable to secure new business this could result in a significant loss of business. Due to the acquisitions 
that the Company has made in 2014, Essentra must serve an increased size and complexity profile of customers who will be heavily 
reliant on our business in some cases. There is now an increased expectation on Essentra from these customers, and the Company  
risks losing business should it fail to adequately measure customer satisfaction and manage relationships.
Impact Mitigation
The loss of certain of Essentra’s key customers may expose  
the Company to: 
 > Reduced revenue 
 > Restructuring costs 
 > Profit decline 
 > Deterioration in financial condition 
 > Reputational damage
To counteract the Company’s exposure to its customer  
profile, Essentra: 
 > Invests in innovative, high quality, value-added products and 
services 
 > Develops long-term relationships and loyalty with customers 
at all levels through key account management techniques 
 > Seeks new markets and growth opportunities to expand the 
customer base
 Key raw material supply
Some of Essentra’s businesses are dependent on the availability of specialist raw materials or components which are incorporated  
into the Company’s products. Key raw materials may be subject to price fluctuations from supply shortages. If rapid increases occur 
in the price of such raw materials prices, including energy costs, the Company’s revenue and profitability may be materially and 
adversely affected.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra is exposed to raw material price increases  
or supply shortages, the Company may suffer: 
 > Disruption to supply 
 > Increased costs 
 > Profit decline 
 > Reduced revenue
To counteract the Company’s exposure to increases in raw 
material costs or supply shortages, Essentra seeks to: 
 > Adopt appropriate procurement practices 
 > Secure longer-term supply agreements
 > Implement cost recovery programmes 
 > Investigate the availability of alternative supply options
 > Use consignment stock
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
35
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Intellectual property development and protection
A key component to Essentra’s future success is the ability to develop new and innovative products and services. In addition to  
seeking internationally applied patent and trademark rights, the Company relies on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade 
secrets. In the event that Essentra is unable to respond to competitive technological advances or to protect its intellectual property 
portfolio, the future performance of the Company may be adversely affected.
Impact Mitigation
Failure to develop and protect intellectual property rights  
may expose the Company to: 
 > Reduced revenue
 > Profit decline 
 > Litigation 
 > Reputational damage
To counteract the Company’s exposure to the erosion  
of its intellectual property portfolio, Essentra: 
 > Invests in research and development 
 > Secures formal registrations of patent and trademark rights 
 > Adopts appropriate confidentiality and licensing practices 
 > Monitors potential infringements and takes appropriate 
enforcement actions
 Relationship with the tobacco industry
A substantial part of Essentra’s business relates to the supply of filter products and packaging solutions to manufacturers in the 
tobacco industry. Future performance may be affected by trends in the tobacco industry, such as changes in the consumption  
of filter products, self-manufacture and increasingly restrictive regulations. Tobacco-related litigation could also adversely affect 
Essentra, although there is no history of the Company being involved in such claims.
Impact Mitigation
Essentra’s relationship with the tobacco industry  
may lead to: 
 > Reduced revenue 
 > Restructuring costs 
 > Profit decline 
 > Reputational damage 
 > Deterioration in financial condition
In seeking to minimise the potential impact of the exposure  
to the tobacco industry, Essentra: 
 > Invests in the research and development of innovative and 
new value-added products and services 
 > Targets growth opportunities outside the manufacture of  
filter products
 > Focuses on low cost filter production 
 > Takes internal and external legal advice to manage  
litigation risk 
 > Seeks to add value with a range of low cost and innovative 
packaging solutions
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
36
STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Talent management
Essentra’s international operations are dependent on existing key executives and certain other employees in order to sustain,  
develop and grow its businesses, and there can be no assurances that these employees will remain with the Company. The success  
of the Company will reflect its ability to retain, attract and motivate highly qualified executives and other personnel equipped to 
deliver Essentra’s strategic objectives. This risk becomes more prevalent in 2015 as the Company moves forward with Drive for 2020,  
as there is a high level of change inherent in the strategic objectives which naturally creates more risk.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra fails to retain, attract or motivate the required  
calibre of employees, its operational performance and  
financial condition may be materially impacted by a lack of: 
 > Experience 
 > Expertise 
 > Commercial relationships 
 > Market insight 
 > Product innovation
In order to manage the risk of personnel change, Essentra: 
 > Regularly reviews personal development and succession 
planning 
 > Sets appropriate key performance indicators 
 > Implements management development schemes and other 
training programmes 
 > Sets effective remuneration programmes 
 > Provides long-term share-based incentive plans 
 > Uses a talent management system 
 > Continues to recruit graduates on its development programme
 Compliance risk
Risk related to regulatory and legislative changes involves the possible failure of the Company to comply with current, changing  
or new legislation or regulation. Many of Essentra’s current business activities are subject to increasing regulation and enforcement 
activity by relevant authorities. As the Company moves into new markets and territories in pursuit of its strategic priorities, Essentra  
is exposed to new and additional compliance risk.
Impact Mitigation
Failure by the Company or its employees or others acting  
on its behalf to abide by the laws and regulations could  
result in: 
 > Administrative, civil or criminal liability 
 > Significant fines and penalties 
 > Suspense or debarment of the Company from trading 
 > Reputational damage 
 > Loss of commercial relationships
In order to manage compliance risk Essentra: 
 > Establishes a clear compliance culture from the top down 
 > Conducts risk assessments and ongoing compliance reviews 
 > Implements relevant policies and procedures 
 > Provides behavioural guidance and training to all employees 
 > Monitors compliance through verification procedures
 > Engages local advisers as appropriate
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
37
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Priorities / goals How do we manage it? How did we do? How will we do it?
Reduce the impact of carbon  
emissions and secure continuous 
improvement in environmental 
performance
 > Set carbon emission targets 
at each operational location
 > Reduce carbon emissions,  
prevent pollution and improve 
manufacturing efficiency
 > Implement initiatives to reduce  
waste and increase recycling
 > Explore the use of energy-saving 
technology in manufacturing
 > Extend the span and quality 
of data collection
 > Develop new techniques with 
suppliers and customers for 
environmentally friendly products
 > Gain ISO 14001 accreditation
 > Gain ISO 50001 accreditation
 > Established year-on-year environmental 
improvement objectives
 > Improved utilisation of raw materials 
and energy at principal operating 
locations (excluding acquired sites)
 > Invested in more flexible  
equipment to improve energy  
and production efficiency
 > Reduced environmental impact  
through site consolidation
 > Achieved ISO 14001 at Filter Products, 
Dubai
 > Attained ISO 50001 at Reinbek and 
Wolfen, Germany sites
 > Continue with global carbon 
reduction initiatives
 > Offset emissions when possible
 > Continue environmental 
improvement to ensure retention  
of accreditations
 > Secure accreditation for newly 
acquired sites within two year period
 > Pursue single, Group-wide 
accreditation to ISO 50001 for all 
manufacturing facilities by 2016
 > Continue to prioritise 
“War on Waste” initiative
Secure continuous improvement  
in health and safety
 > Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation  
at principal manufacturing sites
 > Establish Group standards for 
improvements and results
 > Encourage employee initiatives  
to reinforce Company training
 > Achieved OHSAS 18001 at Components, 
Turkey and Filter Products, Dubai
 > Introduced Essentra Heath and Safety 
Management System
 > Rolled out STEP initiative across all sites
 > Reinforced the Essentra 8 Safety 
Expectations
 > Improved the reporting of hazards  
and near miss incidents
 > Identify other training needs
 > Demonstrate year-on-year 
improvement in the lost work  
day rate
 > Continue to implement three-year 
HSE improvement plan
Ensure the highest standards of  
business integrity and conduct
 > Promote Essentra Values
 > Establish clear policies 
and guidance
 > Secure employee awareness  
and engagement
 > Continue to promote Right 
to Speak policy
 > Regular review of adherence  
with policies and guidance by  
Group Assurance
 > Continued communication of core 
policies through e-Learning and  
reviews in Essentra Group System
 > Implemented new compliance systems
 > Continued to train employees in Code  
of Business Ethics
 > Respond to new risks and requirements
 > Provide further training
 > Drive employee responsibility
 > Investigate complaints
Corporate responsibility  
encompasses a broad range  
of philosophies, activities  
and standards.
Essentra considers the issues  
that are material to its business  
and seeks to respond to them  
in a manner appropriate to the 
interests of all its stakeholders.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
38
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Essentra recognises the significance 
and importance of being a responsible 
corporate citizen in the workplace, 
marketplace, environment and 
community. The Company’s international 
operations fulfil their responsibility to 
record, monitor and make publicly 
available the potential impact of its 
activities. In pursuing its corporate 
strategy, Essentra’s aim is to adopt 
business practices that are economically, 
socially and environmentally sustainable, 
and to promote these to its stakeholders 
in order to strengthen relationships, share 
knowledge and encourage best practice. 
The Company’s risk management 
processes include consideration of  
the potential impact of corporate 
responsibility issues on Essentra’s 
performance. The Company’s investment 
decisions take into account appropriate 
evaluations of the potential consequences 
for its employees, customers and suppliers 
and the environment. 
The Essentra Values are fundamental  
to the Company’s adoption of the highest 
standards of business ethics and integrity 
that underpin its relationships with both 
internal and external stakeholders. 
Essentra’s culture is one of openness, 
integrity and accountability Employees are 
encouraged to act fairly in their dealings 
with fellow colleagues, customers, 
suppliers and business partners.
The Essentra Values can be found on the 
Company’s website www.essentra.com.
Priorities / goals How do we manage it? How did we do? How will we do it?
Reduce the impact of carbon  
emissions and secure continuous 
improvement in environmental 
performance
 > Set carbon emission targets 
at each operational location
 > Reduce carbon emissions,  
prevent pollution and improve 
manufacturing efficiency
 > Implement initiatives to reduce  
waste and increase recycling
 > Explore the use of energy-saving 
technology in manufacturing
 > Extend the span and quality 
of data collection
 > Develop new techniques with 
suppliers and customers for 
environmentally friendly products
 > Gain ISO 14001 accreditation
 > Gain ISO 50001 accreditation
 > Established year-on-year environmental 
improvement objectives
 > Improved utilisation of raw materials 
and energy at principal operating 
locations (excluding acquired sites)
 > Invested in more flexible  
equipment to improve energy  
and production efficiency
 > Reduced environmental impact  
through site consolidation
 > Achieved ISO 14001 at Filter Products, 
Dubai
 > Attained ISO 50001 at Reinbek and 
Wolfen, Germany sites
 > Continue with global carbon 
reduction initiatives
 > Offset emissions when possible
 > Continue environmental 
improvement to ensure retention  
of accreditations
 > Secure accreditation for newly 
acquired sites within two year period
 > Pursue single, Group-wide 
accreditation to ISO 50001 for all 
manufacturing facilities by 2016
 > Continue to prioritise 
“War on Waste” initiative
Secure continuous improvement  
in health and safety
 > Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation  
at principal manufacturing sites
 > Establish Group standards for 
improvements and results
 > Encourage employee initiatives  
to reinforce Company training
 > Achieved OHSAS 18001 at Components, 
Turkey and Filter Products, Dubai
 > Introduced Essentra Heath and Safety 
Management System
 > Rolled out STEP initiative across all sites
 > Reinforced the Essentra 8 Safety 
Expectations
 > Improved the reporting of hazards  
and near miss incidents
 > Identify other training needs
 > Demonstrate year-on-year 
improvement in the lost work  
day rate
 > Continue to implement three-year 
HSE improvement plan
Ensure the highest standards of  
business integrity and conduct
 > Promote Essentra Values
 > Establish clear policies 
and guidance
 > Secure employee awareness  
and engagement
 > Continue to promote Right 
to Speak policy
 > Regular review of adherence  
with policies and guidance by  
Group Assurance
 > Continued communication of core 
policies through e-Learning and  
reviews in Essentra Group System
 > Implemented new compliance systems
 > Continued to train employees in Code  
of Business Ethics
 > Respond to new risks and requirements
 > Provide further training
 > Drive employee responsibility
 > Investigate complaints
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
39
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Average lost time accident  
(incidents) x1,000
2010 0.809
2011 0.639
2012 0.534
2013 0.838
2014 0.808
Near misses recorded (incidents)
2010 5.3
2011 4.2
2012 5.4
2013 3.5
2014 10.8
Workplace
Health and safety
Essentra’s overriding commitment in  
the workplace continues to be the health, 
safety and welfare of its employees and  
all those who visit the Company’s 
operations, as well as those who carry  
out work on behalf of the Group.  
The Board provides health and safety 
leadership and the Chief Executive has 
primary responsibility for setting the 
principal health and safety objectives 
within which the detailed policies  
operate, and for reviewing progress 
against those objectives.
The Group-wide intranet-based 
management reporting system facilitates 
an extensive live programme of active 
monitoring, that measures in detail how 
successful the Company is in managing 
the safety of its workplaces at individual 
site level.
The Company manages occupational 
health by identifying key risk activities, 
undertaking health assessments and, 
where appropriate, implementing health 
surveillance programmes. The Company  
has achieved the Occupational Health & 
Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 
standard for all its principal manufacturing 
facilities. Recently-acquired sites are given  
a period of 24 months to reach the required 
standard, in accordance with Essentra 
policy. Although acquisitions and growth 
have a bearing on the results, the Company 
has designed procedures and developed  
a culture which aims for continuous 
improvement, with the sharing of best 
practice in all areas of health and safety. 
As part of its three-year improvement plan, 
in 2014 a 12-point Essentra Safety and 
Health Management System (“ESHAM”)  
– supported by a comprehensive 
communications programme – was 
introduced across all sites, to facilitate the 
adoption of best practice and encourage 
behavioural change. Internal verification 
audits of the system indicated a progressive 
improvement in scores during the year,  
such that the Company achieved its initial 
target level. In addition, a shop floor STEP 
initiative was rolled out, to improve hazard 
spotting, reporting and corrective action. 
Taken together, these initiatives have 
resulted in a shift in focus from accident 
reporting to risk identification, with the  
lost time accident rate decreasing in 2014, 
notwithstanding organic growth and 
acquisitions undertaken during the period. 
Accordingly, progress has been made in 
terms of further enhancing the way in which 
health and safety change is identified, 
reported and communicated, thereby 
improving the Company’s ability to learn 
from potentially hazardous conditions and 
prevent their reoccurrence or escalation  
into more serious incidents.
As a result, the adoption of a structure with 
a more geographical focus in 2013 has 
delivered improvement in the Company’s 
health and safety performance. In particular , 
the development of greater regional 
expertise, the more rapid implementation  
of standards and a higher degree of data 
standardisation across the Group helps to 
support and streamline Essentra’s ongoing 
HSE compliance and governance strategies.
Essentra’s businesses undertake 
extensive training programmes which are 
particularly focused on the key, or most 
frequent, risks in their operations. Training 
in risk assessment and root-cause analysis 
are key features in the Company’s health 
and safety management.
Details of Essentra’s health and safety 
performance for 2014 and subsequent 
progress throughout 2015 can be viewed on 
the Company’s website www.essentra.com.
Employees
Essentra’s employees are a vital resource 
in the pursuit of operational excellence 
and the provision of quality products and 
service to its customers. The skills and 
expertise of Essentra’s employees drive the 
innovation which enables the Company 
to provide added value to its customers, 
enhance supply chain logistics with its 
suppliers and reduce the environmental 
impact of its operations. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
40
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Company regularly reviews its 
organisational structure to ensure that 
the business has the necessary personnel 
to deliver its strategic priorities. 
Essentra understands the importance  
of having the right people with the right 
skills now and in the future to deliver  
the exceptional service and expertise  
which is the bedrock of the Company’s 
long-term relationships with its customers. 
To deliver that service and expertise, 
Essentra is continually improving its 
comprehensive talent pool, from  
graduates to senior management.  
Essentra runs a very successful graduate 
training programme which continues  
to expand its international reach.
Key strategic aspects of recruitment, 
training and development are overseen 
or co-ordinated at a Group level to ensure 
consistency of approach, to identify 
strategic threats and opportunities and 
to open up a wider range of opportunities 
for employees.
Essentra encourages its employees to 
develop and manage their own careers. 
It facilitates this by providing relevant job 
training and, where appropriate, aims to 
fill vacancies with existing staff where 
employees are suitably qualified and 
experienced.
Essentra encourages the involvement of 
employees in the Company’s performance 
through employees’ share schemes, and to 
further enhance this a new Stock Purchase 
Plan was launched in the US during the year.
Essentra is committed to improving 
employee engagement and learning 
more about the needs of its workforce. 
In addition to the impact of the training 
and development programmes,  
employee engagement is enhanced by  
the communication practices which have 
been adopted across the businesses.
Essentra values highly the commitment 
of its employees and recognises the 
importance of communication to good 
working relationships and practices. The 
Company seeks to ensure that employees 
are informed on matters relating to their 
employment and on financial and economic 
factors affecting the businesses. The 
Company actively seeks feedback and ideas 
from employees to improve its operations, 
and forums appropriate to Essentra’s local 
businesses have been established to allow 
employees to voice their views as to how the 
Company should fulfil the demands of all its 
local and international stakeholders. The 
Company’s European Information and 
Consultation Forum facilitates the 
discussion of issues across all of its 
operations in the European Union.
The Company recognises the importance 
of, and the benefits to be derived from, 
diversity across its international operations 
and is committed to offering equal 
opportunities to all people without 
discrimination of any form. Essentra 
remunerates fairly with respect to skills, 
performance and local market conditions. 
The gender of Essentra’s employees as at 
31 December 2014 was:
Male Female
Non-Executive Directors 4 1
Executive Directors 2 0
Senior Managers 38 2
All employees 4,496 1,892
The Company gives full and fair 
consideration to employment applications 
by disabled people. In the event of 
employees becoming disabled, every effort 
is made to ensure that the training, career 
development and promotion opportunities 
available to disabled persons are as far as 
possible identical to those of other 
non-disabled employees.
Throughout its global activities Essentra 
supports human rights as set down by 
the United Nations Declaration and its 
applicable International Labour 
Organisation conventions. Operations 
based in India, Indonesia and Thailand are 
also accredited to SA 8000 which details 
fundamental principles of human rights. 
The Group’s activities are carried out in 
developed countries that have strong 
legislation governing human rights. The 
Group complies fully with appropriate 
legislation in the countries in which it 
operates. Essentra’s commitment to 
Human Rights is repeated in its Values 
and Code of Business Ethics policy. 
 
Marketplace
Essentra’s reputation with its customers 
and suppliers, and in the communities 
where it operates, is based not only 
on the quality of its performance, but  
also on the integrity of its management  
of the workplace and the environment, 
and its ethical and responsible conduct  
in the marketplace. The development  
and continuation of long-term business 
relationships reflects the trust placed in 
the Company, and such commitments  
are an important component in the 
ongoing success of Essentra.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
41
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Essentra’s Code of Business Ethics policy 
is applicable to all its businesses around 
the world. The policy details the standards 
expected by Essentra in the conduct of 
its business and its relationships with 
third parties, including free and fair 
competition, plus the prohibition of  
bribery and political donations, and 
provides general guidance on honest and 
fair dealings with suppliers, customers 
and local and national authorities. 
Essentra is committed to working with  
its suppliers to ensure the welfare of 
workers and employment conditions 
within its supply chain meet or exceed 
internationally recognised standards. 
Environment
Essentra applies a structured approach to 
maintaining its environmental impact by:
 > Implementing and maintaining 
environmental and energy management 
systems certified to ISO 14001 on  
a global basis
 > Measuring and monitoring 
consumption and emissions,and setting 
targets to improve performance 
 > Conducting environmental impact 
assessments and developing site 
management plans
 > Providing training to employees,and 
engaging with customers and suppliers 
to raise environmental awareness
 > Providing facilities to segregate 
and reuse or recycle waste
Essentra is listed in the FTSE4Good index 
which is designed to measure the 
performance of companies striving to 
meet globally recognised corporate 
responsibility standards, and to facilitate 
investment in those companies where 
corporate responsibility issues are an 
influencing factor in an investor’s 
decision-making process.
In the UK, Essentra’s sites comply with the 
Carbon Reduction Commitment (“CRC”) 
legislation. The Company has registered 
for Phase II and has complied with all 
relevant data submissions. Essentra 
continues to apply the principles of the 
CRC to its global operations and is well 
placed to manage further legislative 
changes in its operating regions.
 
Given the diversity of Essentra’s 
international operations, local management 
drives environmental performance in 
accordance with Group policy, copies of 
which can be found on the Company’s 
website www.essentra.com. Specific 
site-level objectives are established to 
ensure compliance with local legislative 
and external management systems  
(ISO 14001).
Essentra uses a variety of indicators 
to monitor environmental performance, 
but the following core impacts are 
identified for the Group as a whole:
 > Greenhouse gas emissions from 
energy use, including electricity, 
natural gas, heating fuel, transport 
and travel
 > Use of resources, including water
 > Generation and disposal of waste
Essentra is continuously seeking ways to 
improve its utilisation of natural resources. 
A process of continuous improvement is 
applied not only to the impact of its 
usage, but also to the measurement 
and capture of key environmental data. 
The Group has additionally established 
research and development facilities in 
the UK, Asia and the US to investigate the 
use of renewable resources and recyclable 
biodegradable versions of products.
The following assumptions, methodology, 
definitions and data validation processes 
have been used to report the Group’s key 
environmental performance indicators in 
2014. The reported data complies with the 
Companies Act, for the Mandatory 
Reporting of Greenhouse Gases.
 > Boundary scope: Data from all 
locations over which the Company 
has operational control is collected 
and measured
 > Primary data sources: These include 
billing, invoices and other systems 
provided by the supplier of the energy 
to communicate energy consumption
 > Secondary data sources: These include 
the Company’s internal systems used 
to record and report the above 
consumption data
 > Internal data validation: The process 
used to review and compare primary 
data with secondary data. All invoices 
and data loggers for locations 
consuming more than 1 million Kwh 
per year are cross-checked with the 
data held within the Company’s  
own internal data capture systems
 > Conversion factors: The 2013 
Government GHG Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting, published by 
the UK Department for Environment 
Food & Rural Affairs (“DEFRA”), are 
used when converting gross emissions. 
The applicable country conversion 
factors published in this guidance have 
been applied to operations outside of 
the UK 
 > Intensity metric: Total carbon 
emissions per £m of revenue are 
used to calculate the Company’s 
intensity metric.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
42
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Tonnes of CO
2
 e (gross)
year ended 
31 Dec 2014
year ended 
31 Dec 2013
Scope 1 8,967 11,595
Scope 2 74,039 63,361
Total gross 
emissions
83,006 74,956
Total carbon 
emissions per  
£m revenue
95.85 93.92
Acquisitions and growth have contributed 
to Essentra’s increased use of energy. 
The application of energy improvement 
initiatives is expected to continue to 
improve the Company’s overall utilisation 
of energy and raw materials.
Core impacts
year ended 
31 Dec 2014
year ended 
31 Dec 2013
General waste
1
3,052 2,183
Recycled factory 
waste & cardboard
2
1,716 1,503
Water
3
256m
3
217m
3
1 
Tonnes of waste to landfill
2 
Tonnes of production waste
3 
Per £million of Company revenue
Essentra is committed to ensuring good 
environmental practices at all its locations, 
in its operational processes and investment 
decisions. Essentra’s principal manufacturing 
locations are ISO 14001 accredited, and  
all the Company’s European businesses 
comply with EU and domestic regulations.
Due to the scale of Essentra’s international 
operations, the use of energy and raw 
materials has both environmental and 
commercial importance. Where possible, 
and financially viable, raw materials and 
energy from renewable resources are 
utilised to limit environmental impact, 
commercial risk and costs.
Essentra actively engages with its 
employees, customers, and suppliers to 
exploit opportunities offered by new 
technologies, improved process operations 
and novel materials, to reduce its 
environmental impact and improve 
profitability further.
Supplier standards are subject to review 
by the Company’s employees who audit 
their environmental credentials.
Community
Essentra’s commitment to being a 
responsible corporate citizen extends 
to support for appropriate non-political 
and non-sectarian projects across a range 
of organisations and charities. Regardless 
of regional or national boundaries, the 
Company aims to support the creation 
of prosperous, educated, sustainable and 
healthy communities in the countries 
and cultures in which it operates. In its 
attempts to bring benefits back to those 
communities whose support provides a 
basis for Essentra’s success, the Company 
has focused on education and enterprise, 
health and welfare and the environment, 
with support driven at a local, rather  
than a corporate level. The approach is to 
support and enhance employee efforts in 
their communities through the application 
of the Company’s resources. In pursuit of 
its aims within the community, Essentra 
has developed targeted programmes  
for local communities, often involving 
commercial sponsorship and significant 
employee engagement through direct 
involvement or secondment.
Ethics
Essentra’s culture is one of openness, 
integrity and accountability. Employees are 
required to act fairly in their dealings with 
fellow colleagues, suppliers, customers and 
business partners. All employees undertake 
training in the Company’s Code of Business 
Ethics policy which is updated annually.  
In addition, all employees are required  
to review and confirm their acceptance  
of critical Group policies, with the majority 
of employees being required to review and 
accept all of the Group policies. Essentra 
operates a confidential whistleblowing 
policy called “Right to Speak”, with an 
external call centre which enables all 
Group employees to raise any concerns.
Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach 
to bribery and corruption which extends to 
all business dealings and transactions in 
which the Company is involved. This 
includes prohibiting political donations, 
offering or receiving inappropriate gifts 
and making facilitation payments.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
43
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Colin Day
Chief Executive
Colin’s biographical details  
can be found on page 46.
Matthew Gregory
Group Finance Director
Matthew’s biographical details  
can be found on page 46.
Hugh Ross
Managing Director, Europe
Hugh Ross joined Essentra in 1999.  
Before being appointed to his current  
role in January 2014, Hugh was President  
of the Speciality Tapes business in the  
US, prior to which he held increasingly 
senior roles in the Filter Products and  
the Packaging & Securing Solutions 
divisions in North America. Hugh is a 
Chartered Accountant, having qualified 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and  
served as an Officer in the British Army.
Malcolm Waugh
Group Commercial Director  
/ Managing Director, Health  
& Personal Care Packaging
Malcolm Waugh joined Essentra in 2007  
as Managing Director of the Tear Tape 
business, and was appointed to the role of 
Group Commercial Director in January 2012. 
Prior to joining Essentra, Malcolm was 
Commercial Director at Tetra Pak UK  
and Ireland, holding a variety of business 
development and commercial positions 
during his 18-year career there.
Brett York
President, Americas
Brett York joined Essentra in 2001 as  
Vice President of Sales & Marketing for the 
US Components business. Before being 
appointed to his current role in January 
2014, Brett held the position of President  
of Component Distribution Americas from 
2012 and President of the Speciality Tapes 
business from 2007 . Prior to joining Essentra, 
Brett held a variety of increasingly senior 
commercial and operational positions at  
a number of companies, including Industrial 
Molding Corp., Waddington and PepsiCo.
Joanna Speed
Corporate Affairs Director
Joanna Speed joined Essentra in 2011  
as Corporate Affairs Director, having 
previously held the position of Investor 
Relations Director at Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc and Scottish & Newcastle plc. 
Prior to this, Joanna was an equity analyst 
and worked in investment banking for a 
number of international banks. Joanna is  
a Chartered Accountant, having qualified 
with Arthur Andersen. 
Scott Fawcett
Managing Director, Distribution
Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010  
as Managing Director of the European 
Components business, and was appointed 
to his current role in January 2014. Prior  
to joining Essentra, Scott was Head of 
eCommerce at Electrocomponents plc, 
where he held a variety of increasingly 
senior sales, marketing and eCommerce 
positions during his 17-year career there.
PT Sreekumar
Managing Director, Filter Products  
/ Managing Director, Asia
PT Sreekumar joined Essentra in 1995, being 
initially responsible for the Company’s joint 
venture in India. Before being appointed  
to the role of Managing Director, Filter 
Products in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional 
Director for Asia Pacific, responsible for the 
business in Asia and the Middle East. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Sreekumar worked for the 
Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
PAGE HEADING
44
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Jon Green
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, and 
was appointed Company Secretary & 
General Counsel in July 2005. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Jon worked as an in-house 
lawyer for a number of large international 
businesses, including Hays plc and  
Unilever plc. Jon is a qualified solicitor.
Alan Richards
Group Operations Director
Alan Richards joined Essentra as Group 
Operations Director in 2012. Prior to  
joining Essentra, Alan was Senior Director  
– Manufacturing Excellence at the Mars 
Group, and has held a number of 
increasingly senior operational roles in  
the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and mining 
industries. Since 1 January 2013, Alan has 
been responsible for the Group’s Health, 
Safety & Environment practices.
Stefan Schellinger
Corporate Development Director
Stefan Schellinger joined Essentra as  
Corporate Development Director in 2013, 
before which he was Finance Director –  
Emerging Markets at Gilbarco Veeder Root 
from 2011, having initially joined the 
Danaher Corporation as Director, Corporate 
Development – Europe in 2005. Prior to 
this, Stefan worked in investment banking 
at JP Morgan and in accountancy at 
Arthur Andersen.
Gavin Leathem
Group Human Resources Director
Gavin Leathem joined Essentra as Group 
Human Resources Director in 2014. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Gavin was Vice President 
of HR for Europe, Middle East and Africa  
at Emerson Network Power Systems, before 
which he was Group HR Director at Chloride 
Group plc during his 13-year career there. 
Gavin is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute 
of Personnel & Development.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
45
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Jeff Harris
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board: May 2005
Skills and experience
Chairman of Essentra since its formation  
in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in 
ensuring continuity upon demerger and  
in the subsequent development of the 
Company. Jeff is a Chartered Accountant, 
having spent over 25 years working in 
public companies, and brings a wealth 
of experience to Essentra.
 
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director of Synergy 
Health plc. 
Past appointments
Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance 
UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman  
of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of 
Associated British Foods plc, Non-Executive 
Chairman of Cookson Group plc and 
Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC. 
 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Terry Twigger
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: June 2009
Skills and experience
Terry has considerable mergers and 
acquisitions experience and has also held  
a number of senior finance roles, including 
having previously been Finance Director  
at Meggitt PLC. Prior to his retirement in 
2013, Terry was Chief Executive of Meggitt.
Other appointments
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee  
of X Power Limited. 
Past appointments
Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, Director  
of Lucas Aerospace.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee,  
member of the Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
Colin Day
Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board: April 2011
Skills and experience
Prior to joining Essentra, Colin was Chief 
Financial Officer at Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc for over ten years. In addition  
to leading the finance function there,  
Colin was instrumental in both mergers 
and acquisitions activity and the 
development of group strategy. Before 
joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a 
range of senior finance and operational 
positions at a variety of companies.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc,  
AMEC Foster Wheeler plc and FM Global.
Past appointments
Chief Financial Officer of Aegis Group plc, 
Non-Executive Director of EasyJet plc, 
Imperial Tobacco Group plc and 
Cadbury plc.
Matthew Gregory
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board: September 2012
Skills and experience
Matthew joined Essentra in 2003 as Finance 
Director of the European Components 
business and became European Finance 
Director of the Components & Protection 
Solutions division in 2006. Before being 
appointed to his current role in 2012, 
Matthew was Corporate Development 
Director where he played a key role in the 
development of the Company’s strategy 
and in building its mergers and acquisitions 
capability. Prior to joining Essentra, 
Matthew worked for the Rank Group plc  
in a number of senior finance positions. 
Matthew is a Chartered Accountant, having 
qualified with Ernst & Young.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
46
PAGE HEADING BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Peter Hill, CBE
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2013
Skills and experience
Peter is currently Chairman of the 
speciality chemicals business Alent plc, 
where he also chairs the Nominations 
Committee. In addition, he is Non-Executive 
Chairman of Volution Group plc, a leading 
supplier of ventilation products. Peter 
brings a wealth of experience to Essentra, 
gained in particular in increasingly senior 
operational and strategic executive roles, 
and has also served on a number of 
Boards in a Non-Executive capacity for 
over 20 years.
 
Other appointments
Chairman of Alent plc and of Volution 
Group plc, Non-Executive Director of the 
Royal Air Force.
Past appointments
Chief Executive of Laird PLC, Executive 
Director of Constain Group PLC, Non-
Executive Director of Cookson Group plc, 
Meggitt PLC and Oxford Instruments plc, 
Non-Executive Board member of UK Trade 
and Investment.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
Lorraine Trainer
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2013
Skills and experience
Lorraine began her executive career  
at Citibank, and has some 20 years’  
experience in Human Resources at  
such blue-chip companies as the  
London Stock Exchange and Coutts 
NatWest Group. Lorraine currently 
combines her Board work with  
consultancy at and around Board  
level in Director development.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director of Colt Group S.A.  
and Jupiter Fund Management plc.
Past appointments
Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and Member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees.
Paul Drechsler
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board: May 2005
Retiring from the Board: April 2015
 
Skills and experience
Paul is currently the Chairman of the  
Teach First charitable organisation and  
a Non-Executive Director of Bibby Line 
Group. Having served on the Board of 
Essentra since its formation in 2005, Paul 
has played a key role in the development 
of the Company, particularly regarding its 
remuneration policy. Paul brings extensive 
business experience to his role, having 
spent 24 years at ICI plc in a variety of 
senior positions and at Wates Group 
Limited as Chairman and Chief Executive. 
Other appointments
Chairman of Teach First, member of  
the Trinity College Dublin Business School 
Advisory Board, Board member of CBI, 
member of the Board of Business in  
the Community and Chairman of the 
Education Leadership Team. Non-
Executive Director Bibby Line Group.
Past appointments
Chairman and Chief Executive of  
Wates Group Limited, Executive Director  
of ICI plc, Chairman of the ICI Group 
pension fund. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
47
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report that, as 
anticipated, Essentra achieved  
its Vision 2015 strategic objectives  
in 2014, with balanced profitable  
organic growth complemented  
by value-adding transactions. 
A further notable achievement during  
the year was the transition to a new 
organisational structure, operating  
with three geographical regions and  
four Strategic Business Units. No 
organisational change is without its 
challenges, but the greater resulting 
co-ordination has established a strong 
foundation for further development  
of the Group’s operations in both  
existing and new product categories  
and geographies.
As the end of Vision 2015 approached,  
the Board met during the year to discuss 
and agree a new five-year strategy called 
Drive for 2020, details of which can  
be found on the Company’s website  
www.essentra.com. This is a clear and 
focused strategy to maintain the growth 
and momentum of Essentra.
Risk attitude
The Board continues to focus on strategy 
and sets the performance targets for the 
Group. The Executive management team 
is empowered to deliver those targets, 
through appropriate levels of delegated 
authority and support. During the year  
the Board reviewed the risk attitude for 
the Group, and maintained its focus  
on ensuring the appropriate balance of  
risk and reward in the Company’s pursuit  
of its strategic objectives.
Board responsibilities
The rigorous monitoring of financial and 
operational performance has remained 
fundamental to the fulfilment of the 
Board’s responsibilities during the year.  
The pace of development of the Group 
remains founded on strong governance, 
based on transparency and integrity driven 
by an effective Board, with appropriate 
internal controls and a comprehensive 
understanding of risk. 
Code compliance
I am pleased to confirm that the Group 
complied throughout the year with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
The required regulatory and governance 
assurances are provided throughout this 
report. The Board has received regular 
updates on the various legislative and 
governance-related developments  
which occurred during the year. As the 
Company increases in size, complexity  
and geographical reach, this brings more 
compliance requirements and challenges, 
against a background of changing 
legislation and regulation along with 
increased enforcement action by relevant 
authorities. The Board is committed  
to maintaining the highest standards  
of governance.
Audit Committee
The work of the Audit Committee has 
continued to focus on the integrity of 
financial reporting, and the oversight of  
the risk management process and internal 
controls across the Group. The latest 
governance requirements provide for  
the Committee to give a more detailed 
assessment of the key matters under 
consideration and the potential impact  
on the financial statements for the year. 
Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s task is to incentivise the 
Executive team to deliver the Company’s 
success while setting rewards taking the 
views of investors into account. The Drive  
for 2020 strategy underscores the need to 
attract, retain and motivate the team to 
deliver the new objectives. The Committee 
ensures that the Company’s practices  
and incentives are appropriate and that 
there is a clear alignment with the interests 
of shareholders. Indeed, the high levels  
of share ownership required of the Group 
Leadership Team, illustrate the Board’s 
commitment to that alignment. 
Nomination Committee
The Committee continues its work, having 
proper regard to the benefits of diversity,  
to ensure that the composition of the  
Board continues to be appropriate for  
the Company as it focuses on the delivery  
of its Drive for 2020 strategic objectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
48
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER While the Committee primarily devotes  
its attention to Board succession, the 
Board has continued to focus on reviewing 
the quality of Executive management and 
the processes for finding and developing  
a diverse, mobile and international talent 
base. Additional resources have been 
made available to pursue this objective, 
with the implementation of an improved 
global talent management system. 
Core values and behaviours
I strongly believe that good governance  
is founded on the core values and 
behaviours established by the Board and 
communicated throughout the Group.  
The Company has a strong culture of high 
standards of business ethics based on 
clear principles. The Board’s participation 
in the Company’s compliance training 
programmes, and its commitment to the 
development of new governance policies 
and practices, serves to ensure that the 
“tone from the top” is clearly understood 
and reinforced.
As the Group continues to grow in size and 
complexity, one of the greatest challenges 
facing the Board is to ensure that we have 
in place the right people, culture and 
processes to exploit fully the opportunities 
for further balanced growth, and to 
manage effectively the risks to which  
the business is exposed.
Board evaluation
It is essential that the Company has a fully 
engaged and committed Board with an 
appropriate mix of skills, experience and 
knowledge, which is capable of engaging  
in positive and constructive debate to meet 
such challenges. The Board re-engaged 
Lintstock to undertake the annual review  
of the Board in 2014.
The Company Secretary and I set the 
content for the evaluation with Lintstock 
and tailored the questionnaires used to  
the specific circumstances of Essentra.  
The process picked up on themes identified 
in the 2013 exercise and, with the launch  
of Drive for 2020, the key strategic issues 
facing the Company.
All Board members were requested to 
complete an online questionnaire 
addressing the performance of the Board 
and its Committees, the Chairman and 
the individual Directors. The anonymity  
of all respondents was ensured throughout 
the process in order to promote the open 
and candid exchange of views.
The review concluded that all members 
felt that the high performance of the 
Board continued to successfully drive the 
Company’s growth, and provided a clear 
focus on the challenges facing the Board  
in its establishment of future strategic 
objectives and its oversight of their delivery.
 
Employee engagement
I visited a number of Essentra facilities 
overseas during the year, including 
operations in India and the US. I have  
also been able to meet with a number  
of management teams to discover first 
hand how the changes to the Company’s 
organisational structure have been 
implemented and what effect they have 
had on the business. In addition, I was 
pleased to attend the official opening  
of our new purpose-built manufacturing 
facility in Newport, UK. 
I am always greatly impressed by the hard 
work and enthusiasm of my colleagues 
wherever I travel in the world and would like 
to thank them for this commitment. I would 
also like to welcome to the Group all new 
employees from our recent acquisitions.
Board changes
With the appointment of two new 
Non-Executive Directors during 2013, the 
Board benefited from the experience of 
Lorraine Trainer and Peter Hill. Following 
her appointment as the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, Lorraine led 
the development of a revised remuneration 
policy and the new LTIP rules which are 
being proposed at the 2015 AGM and 
undertook the appropriate detailed 
consultation of the shareholders. 
I regret to report that Paul Dreschler  
will be leaving the Board after the 2015 
AGM following nearly 10 years’ service.  
Paul joined on the establishment of the 
Company in 2005, and served as the  
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee until the AGM in 2014. I am 
grateful to Paul for his considerable 
contribution to the development of the 
Company for many years and valued 
support to me in my role as Chairman.
As previously reported Terry Twigger,  
was appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director following the  
2014 AGM.
Governance agenda
In summary, as the Company continues  
its strong growth, we have made excellent 
progress in response to the increasing 
demands of the governance agenda, both 
internally and externally. Good governance 
is a cornerstone of a successful company. 
Internal controls and reporting continue  
to be strengthened, in order to establish  
a framework of policies and processes  
and management systems to support  
its governance efforts which apply globally 
and are fully compatible with the delivery 
of long-term shareholder value. 
JEFF HARRIS
Chairman 
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
49
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER The Board
In fulfilling its role, the Board:
 > Sets, continually reviews and tests the 
Company’s strategic aims 
 > Determines the nature and extent of 
acceptable risks in achieving its 
strategic objectives 
 > Oversees the establishment of formal 
and transparent arrangements for the 
application of corporate reporting, risk 
management and internal control 
requirements and principles
 > Ensures that the necessary financial 
and human resources are in place for 
the Company to meet its objectives
 > Sets the Company’s values and standards
 > Reviews the performance of the 
Company’s executive management 
 > Presents a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects to 
its shareholders
The Audit Committee supports  
the Board in establishing formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering 
how it should apply the required financial 
reporting, internal control principles  
and risk management processes, and  
the audit of the financial statements  
of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for making recommendations  
to the Board on remuneration policy and 
aligning senior executives’ remuneration 
with the interests of shareholders and  
other stakeholders, particularly in the 
design of the performance-related 
elements of remuneration packages.
The Nomination Committee is responsible 
for selecting and recommending candidates 
for appointment as Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company, 
taking into account the balance, structure 
and composition of the Board and the 
future challenges and opportunities facing 
the Company.
The Group Management Committee 
provides general executive management 
of the Company within agreed delegated 
authority limits determined by the Board.
In fulfilling its role, the GMC:
 > Develops and implements strategy, 
financial and operational plans, and 
targets and allocates resources
 > Monitors and delivers financial and 
operating performance
 > Maintains an effective internal  
control framework and is responsible 
for compliance
 > Implements an effective management 
structure and develops effective 
succession plans
 > Is responsible for effective internal and 
external reporting and communication
The Group Leadership Team (“GLT”) 
comprises the most senior managers  
from across the Group who were collectively 
charged with driving the achievement of 
Essentra’s Vision 2015 strategy, and for the 
forthcoming year and beyond will work  
to deliver the Company’s Drive for 2020 
strategic objectives. The GLT plays a key  
role in reinforcing the behaviours that 
contribute to a robust governance culture 
across the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Board of Directors’ meeting 
attendance
Board Chairman: Jeff Harris
Membership and attendance
Jeff Harris 6 (6)
Colin Day 6 (6)
Terry Twigger 6 (6)
Matthew Gregory 6 (6)
Peter Hill 5 (6)
Lorraine Trainer 6 (6)
Paul Drechsler 6 (6)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum 
number of meetings that could have  
been attended.
Peter Hill was unable to attend one  
of the Board meetings due to a long 
standing commitment existing prior  
to his joining.
The Essentra Board is accountable to  
all the Company’s stakeholders for the 
standards of governance which are 
maintained across Essentra’s diverse  
range of global businesses. 
During the year, Essentra was and 
continues to be subject to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) 
published by the Financial Reporting 
Council, a copy of which can be found on 
their website www.frc.org.uk. The edition 
of the Code published in September 2012 
applied throughout the year ended 31 
December 2014. 
Essentra confirms that the Company  
complied with the Code throughout  
the year.
The Company applies the Code’s principles 
of openness, integrity and accountability 
through its own behaviour, corporate 
governance best practice and by adopting, 
as appropriate and proportionate for a 
company of the size and nature of 
Essentra, recommendations of relevant 
professional bodies.
The Company’s governance structure, 
based on the leadership principles of the 
Code, were reviewed during the year and,  
in seeking to continuously improve this 
structure, reviewed and updated its 
Compliance Framework within which  
the Group shall now operate.
The Board is collectively responsible for the 
long-term success of the Company, and its 
role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership 
within a framework of prudent and 
effective controls, which enables risk to  
be assessed and managed in the pursuit  
of the Company’s strategic objectives.
The Essentra Board is accountable to  
all the Company’s stakeholders for the 
standards of governance which are 
maintained across Essentra’s diverse  
range of global businesses.
Board composition and independence
As at the date of this report the Board  
has seven members, comprising a 
Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive 
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors. 
The names of the Directors serving at the 
end of 2014 and their biographical details 
are set out on pages 46 to 47 . All Directors 
served throughout the year. Paul Drechsler 
stepped down as Senior Independent (“SI”)
Non-Executive Director and Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee at the 
end of the 2014 Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”), and will retire from the Board  
at the end of the 2015 AGM.
The Board believes that it and its 
Committees have the appropriate 
composition to discharge their respective 
duties effectively with the appropriate level 
of challenge and level of independence, 
and that the members of the Board in 
conjunction with the senior executive teams 
are well equipped to drive, and are capable 
of delivering, the Company’s Drive for  
2020 strategic objectives. The Board is of 
the view that it has a highly competent 
Chairman who, together with each of  
the other Non-Executive Directors, has 
considerable international experience  
at a senior level in the management 
of activities broadly similar to those carried 
out by Essentra and the material issues 
likely to arise for the Group.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive are separately held and are so 
defined as to ensure a clear separation  
of responsibilities. Details are available on  
the Company website www.essentra.com. 
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures 
its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive is 
responsible for the executive management 
and performance of Essentra’s operations. 
Together with the primary responsibilities 
of the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, the other Non-Executive Directors 
and the clear definition of reserved matters 
and delegated authorities, there is a system 
which exists of checks and balances in 
which no individual has unfettered decision-
making power.
Board roles
The Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, currently Terry Twigger, can be 
contacted via the Company’s registered 
office. In that role he is available to 
shareholders to discuss and develop an 
understanding of their issues and any 
concerns which cannot be resolved by 
discussions with the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive or Group Finance Director,  
or where such contact is inappropriate. 
Chairman
 > Leads the Board
 > Ensures effective communication  
with shareholders
 > Ensures effective communication  
flows between Directors
 > Facilitates the effective 
communication of all Directors
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chief Executive
 > Implements strategy
 > Develops manageable goals  
and priorities
 > Leads and motivates the  
management teams 
 > Develops proposals to present to  
the Board on all areas reserved for  
its judgement
While the Board maintains that for  
the year ended 31 December 2014  
the Non-Executive Directors were  
each considered to be independent  
of management, under the Code  
Paul Drechsler is no longer considered  
to be independent. 
In assessing independence, the Board 
considers that the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors are independent 
of management and free from business 
and other relationships which could 
interfere with the exercise of independent 
judgement now and in the future. The Board 
believes that any shareholdings of the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
serve to align their interests with those  
of the shareholders. 
The Board considers that the Non-Executive 
Directors provide an independent view in 
Board discussions and in the development 
of the Company’s strategy. Non-Executive 
Directors also ensure a sound basis for good 
corporate governance for the Company, 
challenging management’s performance 
and, in conjunction with the Executive 
Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial 
controls and systems of risk management 
are maintained as appropriate to the needs 
of the businesses within Essentra. 
The Board is content that the Non-Executive 
Directors devote sufficient time to the 
business of Essentra. 
Jeff Harris is currently appointed to the 
board of Synergy Health plc as a Non-
Executive Director and as the Senior 
Independent Director. The Board  
considers that despite this appointment,  
the Chairman of the Board continues to  
be able to allocate sufficient time to  
the Company and to discharge his 
responsibilities effectively.
The letters of appointment for Non-
Executive Directors are available for  
review at the Company’s registered  
office and prior to the AGM.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
require that all new Directors seek election 
to the Board at the AGM following their 
appointment. In addition, the Board has 
agreed that, in compliance with the Code, 
all eligible Directors will put themselves 
forward for re-election on an annual  
basis. Following the Board performance 
evaluation undertaken during the financial 
year, the Board is satisfied that each  
of the Directors being put forward for 
re-election at the AGM continues to  
be effective and that their ongoing 
commitment to the role is undiminished.
The conduct of Board matters
In managing the affairs of the Company, 
the Board has adopted a schedule of 
reserved matters which are to be reviewed 
annually including:
 > Strategy and resources
 > Annual plan
 > Treasury policies
 > Major capital and operating 
expenditure proposals
 > Major acquisitions and disposals
 > Debt facilities
 > Key Group policies
 > Appointments to the Board
 > Systems of internal control
 > Dividend payments
 > Categories of public announcements
The detailed implementation of all  
these, and general operational matters,  
are the responsibility of executive senior 
management and regular formal 
management reports are provided  
to the Board.
During 2014, the Board was closely 
engaged in the detailed monitoring of 
performance and the actions necessary to 
maintain the balanced, profitable growth  
of the Company in accordance with its 
Vision 2015 objectives. It also remained 
focused on the longer-term strategic 
objectives which it has defined, and the 
appropriate management of particular 
risks impacting the Group within the risk 
attitude parameters which were defined 
by the Board during the year. The Board 
spent considerable time reviewing and 
discussing the new Drive for 2020 strategic 
objectives and is confident of attaining 
these new deliverables, details of which 
can be found on the Company’s website  
at www.essentra.com.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
52
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Boards and Committees
During the year there were six scheduled 
Board meetings. In addition to the 
scheduled formal meetings, the Board 
met on a number of other occasions as 
required and, in particular, reviewed in 
detail the further development and 
delivery of the Group’s strategy, and 
undertook a specific review of risk in 
consultation with an external consultant. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive 
maintain regular contact with the 
Directors, and the Chairman also holds as 
appropriate, from time to time, informal 
discussions with Non-Executive Directors 
individually or collectively without any of 
the Executive Directors being present, to 
review performance, discuss succession 
issues, to monitor corporate control 
mechanisms and to discuss any other 
material matters relevant to the Board. 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary & General Counsel, 
sets the programme for the Board during 
the year. The Board considers reports from 
the Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director covering operational, financial 
performance and other significant 
business issues. Board meetings are 
structured to allow open discussion, and  
all Directors participate in determining  
the Group’s strategy and regularly 
reviewing the trading and financial 
performance of the Company.
Committees are a valuable part of  
the Company’s corporate governance 
structure, and the Board looks to the Audit 
Committee in particular to undertake the 
majority of the work involved in monitoring 
and seeking assurance as to compliance 
with the controls within this framework. 
However, the Board as a whole maintains 
oversight of such important matters and 
after each Committee meeting, the
Chairman of the Audit Committee reports 
on the matters which have been reviewed.
Other specific responsibilities are 
delegated to the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. These 
Committees report as appropriate to the 
Board. Each of the Committees has terms 
of reference approved by the Board, copies 
of which are available on the Company’s 
website or on request from the Company 
Secretary & General Counsel.
Operational matters and the responsibility 
for the day-to-day management of the 
businesses are delegated to the Chief 
Executive, supported by members of senior 
executive management and the respective 
Regional Managing Directors or Presidents 
as appropriate, within delegated authority 
limits and in accordance with clearly 
defined systems of internal control. 
During 2014 Essentra transitioned to a more 
matrix organisational structure, with the 
establishment of three geographical regions 
to supplement the existing divisional 
structure. The role of the regions is to drive 
in-market execution, with the newly created 
SBUs taking responsibility for those activities 
of a longer-term more strategic nature.
The Board was supported during the year 
by the GMC, which ensures a strong link 
between Essentra’s overall corporate 
strategy and its implementation within  
an effective internal control environment.
The GMC provides general executive 
management of the Company within 
agreed delegated authority limits 
determined by the Board.
The Chief Executive will continue to  
be supported by the GMC which will 
consist of senior executive management, 
and the regional and SBU heads. The GMC 
will continue to have delegated authority 
limits in accordance with clearly defined 
internal controls established by the Board.
Engagement with management
The Board receives detailed reports at 
each scheduled Board meeting on the 
operational and financial performance  
of the businesses from the Chief Executive 
and the Group Finance Director, together 
with regular updates on any material 
issues which may impact the Group.
The Board received detailed presentations 
from senior management across a range 
of businesses within the Company during 
the course of the year, in addition to 
reviewing strategic plans and budgets 
across the Company. The Board also 
considers reports from senior functional 
management about matters of material 
importance to the Company which arise 
from time to time. 
There is a programme of meetings, both 
formal and informal, with members of  
the senior executive management and the 
Board has the opportunity to engage with 
local management during site visits. The 
Board derives a better understanding of 
the Company’s operations and business 
model as a result of such contact.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
53
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Applying Essentra’s Corporate 
Responsibility principles
The Chief Executive is the Director  
with primary responsibility for the 
implementation and integration of 
Essentra’s Corporate Responsibility 
principles across the Company. During 
2014 the Group Operations Director, 
supported by the Company Secretary & 
General Counsel, was responsible for 
co-ordinating the operation of detailed 
policies on health and safety, ethics  
and the environment which support 
Essentra’s commitment to its Corporate 
Responsibility principles. Further details of 
these policies can be viewed via the 
Corporate Responsibility page on the 
Company’s website at www.essentra.com.
Conflict of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid 
actual or potential conflicts of interest. 
The Company’s Articles of Association 
permit the Board to consider and, if it sees 
fit, to authorise situations where a Director 
has an interest that conflicts, or may 
possibly conflict, with the interests of the 
Company. In addition, the Company has  
a Conflict of Interest policy governing the 
responsibilities of Directors in such 
situations. The decision to authorise a 
conflict of interest can only be made by 
non-conflicted Directors (those who have 
no interest in the matter being considered) 
and in making such a decision the 
Directors must act honestly and in good 
faith when giving authorisation where  
they think this is appropriate, and will be 
most likely to promote the Company’s 
success. The Company Secretary & General 
Counsel maintains a register of Directors’ 
interests so that any potential concerns 
are addressed before any material 
concerns may arise. During the course of 
the year, there were no material conflicts 
of interest impacting on the conduct of 
the Board’s activities.
Information and professional 
development
The Chairman, supported by the  
Company Secretary & General Counsel, 
takes responsibility for ensuring that the 
Directors receive accurate, timely and 
clear information.
On appointment an induction programme 
tailored to their individual needs is available 
to Directors, and is designed to assist them 
in their understanding of Essentra and  
its operations. Throughout a Director’s 
tenure they are encouraged to develop 
their knowledge of the Group through 
meetings with senior management and 
site visits. Directors are also provided  
with updates, as appropriate, on matters 
such as fiduciary duties, Companies Act 
requirements, share dealing restrictions 
and corporate governance matters. 
All Directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel, who is responsible to 
the Chairman for ensuring that Board 
procedures are complied with and that 
applicable rules and regulations are 
followed. During the year under review  
the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel’s advice was sought in relation to 
share dealings. In the furtherance of their 
duties, there are agreed procedures for the 
Directors to take independent professional 
advice, if necessary, at the Company’s 
expense. No Director took independent 
professional advice during the year.
Board Evaluation 2014
Following the Board review in 2013, 
Essentra retained the services of Lintstock 
to undertake a follow-up evaluation of the 
performance of the Board in 2014.
The first stage of the review involved 
Lintstock engaging with the Chairman 
and the Company Secretary to set the 
context for the evaluation, and to tailor 
the questionnaires used to the specific 
circumstances of Essentra. The process 
picked up on themes identified in the 2013 
exercise, especially concerning the key 
strategic issues facing the Company.
All Board members were then requested  
to complete the questionnaire, which 
addressed the performance of the Board 
and its Committees, the Chairman and 
individual Directors. The anonymity of all 
respondents was ensured throughout the 
process in order to promote an open 
exchange of views.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report 
which addressed the following core areas 
of Board performance:
 > Reviewing and continuing the 
evolution of the composition of the 
Board and its Committees, to match 
the growth of the Company and the 
development of its strategic objectives
 > Ensuring the consistent delivery of a 
clear “tone from the top” to drive the 
development of Company culture
 > Developing constructive and effective 
relationships in the Boardroom and 
with the senior management team, 
with appropriate levels of challenge 
 > Continuing the testing and 
development of the Company’s 
strategy 
 > Managing risk effectively 
 > Planning for senior management 
succession, with appropriate talent 
development and performance 
evaluation programmes 
 > Focusing the Board agenda on key 
reviews and discussion, supported by 
the provision of high quality 
information and the availability of 
high quality resource and advice
In addition to these core topics, Lintstock 
also addressed a number of particular 
case study areas relating to Essentra’s 
strategy, including the development  
of the commercial footprint of the 
Company, the effectiveness with which  
the Company reinvests in innovation  
and technical capability and the challenges 
associated with the transition to a matrix 
management structure.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
54
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Lintstock review concluded that the 
high level of Board performance continued 
to improve, but identified a number of 
particular actions for the Board’s 
consideration in response to the challenges 
arising from the growth objectives set out 
in the Drive for 2020 strategy. In particular, 
the Board is to further review its existing 
processes and practices, and the nature 
and extent of its interaction with the 
senior management team in seeking to 
maximise the value of its contribution to 
the delivery of the Company’s strategic 
objectives. Increasing the focus on its 
oversight of succession planning and the 
development of talent is a key activity for 
the Board in 2015 and beyond.
It is envisaged that Lintstock will conduct 
an interview-driven evaluation next year, 
including input from the senior 
management team, in order to follow up 
on the issues raised in this year’s process in 
greater depth. The review content for each 
subsequent evaluation is designed to build 
upon learning gained in the previous year, 
to ensure that the recommendations 
agreed in the review are implemented and 
that year-on-year progress is measured.
Shareholder communications
The Board recognises the importance  
of effective communication, and seeks  
to maintain open and transparent 
relationships with its shareholders and 
other stakeholders, including providers  
of finance, customers and suppliers.  
This is achieved by regular updates through 
press announcements, the corporate 
website and other published material.
The Company also communicates 
regularly with its major institutional 
shareholders and ensures that all the 
Directors, including the Non-Executive 
Directors, have an understanding of the 
views and concerns of major shareholders, 
and are able to explain business 
developments and financial results as 
appropriate. The Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director and Corporate Affairs 
Director have primary responsibility for 
investor relations. Presentations for 
analysts and institutional shareholders 
were held during the year and meetings 
were also held with key institutional 
investors to discuss strategy, financial 
performance and investment activities. 
Slide presentations are made immediately 
available after the full- and half-year 
results, and are also available on the 
Company’s website to view and download.
All shareholders have the opportunity to 
meet any of the Directors of the Company 
should they so wish. Feedback from 
meetings with shareholders is provided to 
the Board so they are aware of any issues or 
concerns. Additionally, the Board uses the 
AGM as an occasion to communicate with 
all shareholders, including private investors, 
who are provided with the opportunity to 
question the Directors. At the AGM the level 
of proxy votes lodged on each resolution 
will be made available, both at the meeting 
and subsequently on the Company’s 
website. Each substantially separate issue is 
presented as a separate resolution and the 
Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees are available  
to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers 
will be posted to shareholders more than 
20 working days before the AGM.
Financial reporting
The Directors have acknowledged, in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
set out on page 91, their responsibility for 
preparing the financial statements of the 
Company and the Group. The Directors  
are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts, and they consider 
that the Annual Report and Accounts  
taken as a whole are fair, balanced and 
understandable. The external auditor  
has included, in the Independent Auditor’s 
Report set out on pages 142 to 146,  
a statement about their reporting 
responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for  
the publication of Half Year Results,  
as required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority. This provides a general 
description of the financial position and 
performance of the Company and the 
Group during the relevant period. 
In November 2014, the Financial Conduct 
Authority announced that it was removing 
the requirement for companies to publish 
interim management statements. As  
a result, the Company will not continue 
with the previous process of publishing 
such statements.
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, and to the extent permitted 
by the laws of England and Wales, the 
Directors are granted an indemnity from 
the Company in respect of those liabilities 
incurred as a result of their office. In respect 
of those matters for which the Directors 
may not be indemnified, the Company 
maintained a Directors’ and Officers’ 
Liability Insurance Policy throughout the 
year. It is anticipated this policy will be 
renewed. Neither the Company’s indemnity 
nor the insurance provides cover to the 
extent that the Director is proven to have 
acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Internal controls
In accordance with the Code, the Board 
acknowledges its overall responsibility to 
shareholders to ensure that an adequate 
system of risk management and internal 
control is in place. This is essential for 
reliable financial reporting and also for  
the effective management of the Group.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the  
system has been delegated to the Audit 
Committee, which assesses the quality of 
the control environment when monitoring 
and reviewing the integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements and any significant 
judgements that were made in their 
preparation. Essentra’s internal controls  
are designed to safeguard the Company’s 
assets, and to ensure the integrity and 
reliability of information used both  
within the businesses and for public 
announcements. The Board has overall 
responsibility for the Company’s system  
of internal control and risk management 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
55
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT and for reviewing the effectiveness of this 
system. Such a system can only be designed 
to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can therefore only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The following procedures are in place 
which enable the Board to review the 
effectiveness of the system of internal 
control:
 > The Audit Committee meets  
regularly and reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal control environment  
of the Group
 > The Audit Committee is supported by 
the Group Assurance function which 
undertakes extensive internal audit 
responsibilities across the Group
 > Risk management reports are 
presented which detail an analysis  
of the key risks at a Group level, 
summarise developments potentially 
impacting the Group from a risk, 
governance or compliance perspective 
and propose actions for the Company 
in response to such developments 
 > The Board has the opportunity  
to review the internal control 
environment at local sites when  
Board meetings are held away from 
the Company’s head office
 > Every month each division submits 
detailed operating and financial 
reports covering all aspects of 
performance. These are reviewed 
within the Group’s central finance 
function, and summary reports  
are communicated to the GMC  
and the Board
 > Certificates are required from the 
businesses to confirm compliance with 
the Group’s policies and procedures
 > Self-certification is required from all 
businesses and divisions at both the 
half year and year end to confirm 
compliance with Group financial 
policies and procedures
Policies and procedures, which are  
subject to ongoing review and updated  
as required in response to strategic, 
operational, business, legal or regulatory 
developments, with the approval of the 
Board or its respective Committees  
as appropriate, are communicated across  
the Group. Essentra’s internal controls  
are designed to ensure significant risks, 
investment decisions and management 
issues are identified, considered and 
escalated as necessary at the earliest 
opportunity. Regional Managing Directors 
and Presidents are responsible for ensuring 
the communication of and compliance 
with Essentra’s internal controls across 
their respective regions. 
Control of significant risks
The Board’s responsibility for risk and risk 
management in Essentra encompasses:
 > Determining the Company’s approach 
to risk
 > Setting and instilling the right culture 
throughout the Company
 > Identifying the risks inherent in  
the Company’s business model  
and strategy, including risks from 
external factors
 > Monitoring the Company’s exposure  
to risk and the key risks that could 
undermine its strategy, reputation  
or long-term viability
 > Providing an effective oversight  
of the risk management processes  
in the Company
 > Ensuring the Company has effective 
crisis management systems
A Group risk framework is in place which 
supports the Board in fulfilling these 
responsibilities and serves to reinforce the 
risk review processes embedded within  
the businesses.
The Audit Committee enhances the 
quality of the Board’s oversight of the risk 
management process within Essentra but 
does not determine the Company’s attitude 
and tolerance for risk. 
In continuing to enhance and improve  
the risk management activities within  
the Company, from January 2014 the 
Board endorsed the formation of a new 
Operational Risk Management Committee 
which reports to the Audit Committee 
through the Group Head of Assurance, 
and an Executive Risk Committee which 
reports to the Board through the  
Chief Executive. 
The respective risk committees meet  
on a regular basis during the year and 
report to the Board or Audit Committee,  
as appropriate, on the Company’s 
identification and mitigation of risk within 
the parameters established by the Board.
The Board is of the view that a rigorous 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing significant risks faced by 
the Company was in place throughout 
2014 and up to the date of approval of the 
2014 Annual Report. This process has been 
reviewed by the Audit Committee and will 
be reviewed routinely, to ensure that the 
system of internal control and risk 
management remains fit for purpose.
The risk attitude established by the  
Board provides clarity on those areas 
where the Board wishes to take little or  
no risk, and those where the Board would 
be comfortable adopting a greater level  
of risk taking. It is intended that this 
assessment will be used to support the 
Board’s ongoing decision making and 
underpin the risk management processes 
across the Company. 
Risk attitude will change over time to reflect 
changes in the economic environment, 
strategy and performance of the Company, 
and it is the intention of the Board to 
review this at least on an annual basis in 
conjunction with its strategic and financial 
planning processes.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
56
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company has an established process 
for the development of risk practices. 
Further to the setting of the risk attitude by 
the Board there is a more formal method of 
defining acceptable levels of risk within the 
organisation. The risk process has evolved 
and is validated through the preparation 
of risk registers which are used to assess risk 
tolerance, and the registers are reviewed 
and discussed by senior management  
prior to being put forward to the Audit 
Committee or Board.
With the continued development of  
the Group Assurance function, further 
controls have been introduced to improve 
effectiveness, reduce costs and support 
business performance. 
The risk management technology 
platform introduced in the prior year  
has enhanced the reporting tools currently 
being used and allows the Company to 
improve risk management, develop risk 
strategies into risk mitigation and 
eliminate any lack of coverage. The 
platform allows real time reporting of  
risks from the operational businesses  
to the executive management.
Nomination Committee
Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris
Membership as at 31 December 2014 
and attendance
Jeff Harris  
Non-Executive Chairman
4 (4) 
Terry Twigger 
SI Non-Executive Director
4 (4) 
Peter Hill 
Non-Executive Director
4 (4) 
Lorraine Trainer  
Non-Executive Director 
4 (4) 
Figures in brackets denote the maximum 
number of meetings that could have  
been attended.
The Company Secretary & General  
Counsel acts as Secretary to the 
Nomination Committee.
At the end of the year the Nomination 
Committee comprised Jeff Harris, who 
chairs the Committee, Peter Hill, Lorraine 
Trainer and Terry Twigger, the skills and 
experience of whom can be found on pages 
46 to 47 . The Chief Executive, Paul Drechsler 
and Group Human Resources Director 
attended by invitation as appropriate. 
The Nomination Committee meets as 
required, and during 2014 it met four 
times.
The Nomination Committee is responsible 
for selecting and recommending 
candidates for appointment as  
Executive and Non-Executive Directors  
of the Company. In furtherance of these 
duties and when considering succession 
planning, the Nomination Committee 
looks at the balance, structure and 
composition of the Board and takes  
into account the future challenges and 
opportunities facing the Company. 
Nomination Committee 2014  
key activities
 > Reviewed the succession planning  
for the Board and senior executives, 
and in doing so considered diversity, 
experience, knowledge and skills
 > Reviewed the composition and 
structure of the Company’s Board and 
the Committees
 > Reviewed the Group Conflict of 
Interests policy and register and was 
satisfied that there were no material 
issues of conflict
Considerations included the appointment  
of a new Non-Executive Director whose 
skills and experience would favourably 
enhance the current Board. 
The successful applicants needed to 
exhibit independence of mind, integrity 
and courage to challenge constructively 
when appropriate. An external resource, 
JCA Group, was engaged to assess the 
applicants and make a proposal to the 
Nomination Committee during 2015.
There is no related party connection with 
JCA Group, other than the work carried 
out on an arms length basis.
The Nomination Committee, and the 
Board as a whole, supports the spirit  
of the recommendations set out in the 
Lord Davies Report “Women on Boards” . 
Securing the right combination of skills, 
experience and expertise allows the Board 
to effectively lead the sustainable growth 
and success of the Company for the benefit 
of all stakeholders. The fundamental 
objective must be to ensure that the best 
people are appointed to do the best job for 
Essentra, taking into consideration other 
factors such as market and international 
experience and diversity of thought and 
background. Appointing people on merit 
without any form of discrimination is a key 
component of Essentra policies across all 
its international operations at all levels. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
57
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Dear Shareholder, 
As Chairman of the Essentra plc  
Audit Committee, I am pleased to 
present the 2014 Audit Committee 
Report to shareholders.
The report aims to provide you with the 
following information:
 > How the Audit Committee operates 
and engages with the Company, 
including the Group Assurance 
function and the Executive Directors
 > The key activities which were reviewed 
by the Audit Committee, including 
those items of regular annual review 
and other current areas of focus 
 > The discussions and actions 
undertaken, in conjunction with the 
external auditor, on any significant 
judgements and / or issues
 > Details of the ongoing review of the 
external auditor and the amount of 
non-audit work undertaken
The Audit Committee continues to  
focus on effective governance as a key 
feature in the way Essentra manages  
its business risks and internal control 
procedures. This focus enables the Audit 
Committee to support the maintenance 
and continuing development of the  
control environment across the Company, 
to ensure the integrity of the financial 
information and that a fair, balanced  
and understandable view is provided  
to our shareholders. 
With the agenda for the Audit Committee’s 
consideration continuing to expand, and  
as the Company continues its growth,  
we are taking additional time to ensure 
that the Audit Committee has the 
opportunity and focus to fulfil its 
wide-ranging responsibilities diligently. 
While the role and independence of the 
external auditor continues to be reviewed, 
the Audit Committee has reported to the 
Board that the re-appointment of KPMG 
LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming 
AGM, and I hope that you will support me  
in this resolution. 
TERRY TWIGGER
Audit Committee Chairman
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
58
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Audit Committee
Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger
Membership as at 31 December 2014 
and attendance
Terry Twigger 
SI Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Peter Hill 
Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Lorraine Trainer  
Non-Executive Director 
4 (4)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum 
number of meetings that could have  
been attended.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Other attendees
The external auditor, Chairman of  
the Board, Group Finance Director,  
Paul Drechsler, Group Head of Assurance 
and members of the GMC attended 
meetings by invitation, as appropriate. 
During the year, the Audit Committee  
met the external auditor, KPMG LLP ,  
and the Group Head of Assurance without 
the Executive Directors being present.
Governance
All the Audit Committee members are 
independent Non-Executive Directors,  
and have financial and / or related business 
experience gained in senior positions in 
other large diverse organisations.
Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee since 2009, and the 
Board is satisfied that Terry has recent  
and relevant financial experience, further 
details of which can be found on page 46.
The Audit Committee supports the Board 
and reports to it on a regular basis, 
certainly no less frequently than at every 
Board meeting following a meeting of the 
Audit Committee. 
There is an annual cycle of items that are 
to be considered by the Audit Committee. 
The timetable of these items is scheduled 
in accordance with the requirements of 
the annual audit cycle and any other 
requirements of the Audit Committee. The 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee are 
defined in its terms of reference, which are 
reviewed annually, copies of which are 
available at www.essentra.com. 
Significant financial judgements  
for 2014
Valuation of accounts receivable 
The Group continues to have a large 
number of customers which, in aggregate, 
have significant outstanding balances. 
Some of these customers operate in 
countries facing more difficult economic 
circumstances which may expose the Group 
to additional risks. Consequently the  
Audit Committee is required to review at 
least twice-yearly the valuation of such 
receivables and ensure the appropriateness 
of provisions held against the carrying 
value of accounts receivable, having 
regards to the age of creditworthiness  
of the customer.
There is a clear process and policy in place 
for the valuation of accounts receivable 
which is communicated to all Group finance 
teams. Along with the Group Assurance 
function, the Group Finance Director and 
Chief Executive review quarterly all 
receivable balances and provisions with the 
heads of the three regions. 
During the year the Audit Committee 
reviewed the Company’s policies and 
procedures associated with the valuation 
of receivables, particularly in relation to 
the process for the acceptance of credit 
risk and its management, and challenged 
the Group Finance Director on the 
appropriateness of provisions held by the 
Company against such risk.
As a result of the processes and reporting in 
place, the Audit Committee is satisfied that 
management is giving its full attention to 
all material outstanding receivables.
Tax contingencies 
The Group is subject to a number of tax 
assessments which might represent 
potential future tax exposures, which arise 
in the ordinary course of business from tax 
authorities in a number of the jurisdictions 
in which the Group operates. The Group 
assesses all such exposures in the context 
of the tax laws of the countries in which it 
operates and, where applicable, makes 
provisions for any settlements which it 
considers appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviewed the central 
tax provisions created during the year and 
the effective tax rate, together with their 
corresponding assumptions. The Audit 
Committee questioned and challenged 
the Group Finance Director as to the 
Company’s risk attitude in this area. 
Having considered the explanations and 
rationale provided by the Company, and 
taking this into consideration along with 
the conclusion of the external auditor,  
the Audit Committee concluded that  
the contingencies were appropriate given 
the nature of the activity undertaken  
by the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
59
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Exceptional costs 
The presentation of certain items as 
exceptional requires judgement, and 
therefore each item under consideration 
must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
There are no specific rules on the definition 
and presentation of exceptional items.  
The Essentra Group has issued to its finance 
teams a policy detailing the treatment of 
such items which should be based on size, 
incidence and the intention to enable a 
proper understanding of the Company’s 
financial information and performance.
The Audit Committee considered, on a 
regular basis, the value and treatment  
of the exceptional items, and the 
assumptions underlying this value. 
The Company provided detailed analysis 
as to the reasons why these costs should 
be classified as exceptional and that  
they related to acquisitions, integrations, 
restructuring costs and other significant 
non-routine items, further details of  
which can be found in note 3 on page 115.  
The Audit Committee challenged the 
appropriateness of this classification to 
ensure the costs were truly exceptional  
and could not be considered to be recurring. 
The Audit Committee also challenged  
the Group Finance Director as to whether 
the amounts involved were sufficiently 
material to be considered exceptional.
Taking into consideration the accounting 
policy of the Company, the explanations 
given by the Group Finance Director and 
the views and conclusion of the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee remains 
comfortable with classification of these 
exceptional costs.
Valuation of warranty provision
The Group produces a wide range of 
products and operates manufacturing 
facilities in a number of countries. This  
could lead to quality issues arising, and  
so the Group needs to make a provision  
for returns under warranty.
This area was considered as a key source  
of audit focus, and the external auditor 
addressed the potential issue with the 
Audit Committee during the planning  
of the external audit process and scope. 
The external auditor provided a detailed 
report to the Audit Committee outlining 
the assumptions made and other bases  
of calculation for the valuation of the 
warranty provision. The Audit Committee 
evaluated the report of the external auditor, 
having regard also to the information and 
explanations provided by the Group Finance 
Director in the valuation of the provisions.
The Audit Committee concluded that it 
was satisfied with the assumptions made 
and the judgements applied. 
Audit Committee 2014 key activities
Financial statements and reports
 > Examined the 31 December 2013 
Annual Report and Accounts and the 
30 June 2014 Half Year Report. This 
involved reviewing, challenging and 
recommending for approval the going 
concern basis of preparation, the 
accounting policies and disclosures, 
the financial reporting issues and the 
assumptions and judgements made
 > Reviewed in detail the key judgements 
of the Financial Statements and levels 
of disclosure
 > Reviewed the effectiveness of  
the Group’s internal controls and 
disclosures made in the Annual  
Report and financial statements
 > Reviewed the judgements and 
assumptions used for segmental 
reporting following the adoption  
of the new organisational structure
 > Implemented a recruitment policy 
with regard to persons previously 
employed by external auditors
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
60
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Risk management and internal audit
 > Reviewed and considered reports  
from the Group Head of Assurance, 
including any issues relating to  
internal controls and the status of 
actions taken in response to any 
identified concerns
 > Oversaw the development of risk 
management practices through  
the Group Assurance function
 > Assessed the areas of focus for 
internal audit and the adequacy  
of coverage, having regard to the 
potential risks impacting the Group
 > Reviewed the output from the Group 
processes used to identify, evaluate 
and mitigate risk, and considered the 
key risks arising from the Company’s 
activities and the response of senior 
management to those challenges
 > Assessed the Company’s response  
to cyber security and information 
technology risks
 > Reviewed the adequacy of the 
Company’s resources in relation to 
financial reporting, tax and treasury 
management requirements
 > Oversaw compliance activities while 
monitoring the regulatory environment, 
and assessing / mitigating any impact 
to the business
 > Reviewed the Company’s whistleblowing 
processes and reports made during the 
year under its Right to Speak policy 
The Audit Committee takes responsibility 
for reviewing the Group’s internal controls 
through its engagement with the Group 
Assurance function. The Group Head  
of Assurance is responsible for providing 
assurances as to the adequacy of internal 
controls’ function throughout the 
Company, and attends each Audit 
Committee meeting. Prior to the start of 
each year the Audit Committee agrees  
the annual internal audit plan, which  
is drawn up on a risk-based approach 
across a broad section of the Company’s 
activities. Any significant findings from 
internal control audits undertaken  
during the year have been appropriately 
investigated, and necessary action taken 
to address and rectify any weaknesses 
that may have been identified. 
With the strong growth and acquisition 
activity undertaken by the Company,  
and the expansion into new markets  
and geographies, the Audit Committee 
has sought assurance that the internal 
controls, together with risk management 
and compliance activities, have continued 
to develop in accordance with all relevant 
requirements, and that appropriate 
resource is being made available to 
respond to those demands. 
During the year the Audit Committee 
continued to review the Company’s  
cyber security and received a presentation 
from the newly appointed Chief 
Information Officer.
External auditor and non-audit work
 > Reviewed and agreed the scope of  
the audit work to be undertaken by 
the external auditor
 > Agreed the terms of engagement and 
fees to be paid to the external auditor 
for their audit of the 31 December 2014 
financial statements
 > Considered and planned with the 
external auditor transitional 
arrangements for the new audit 
partner to be introduced during 2015
 > Received a report from the external 
auditor on its independence and 
objectivity including quality control 
procedures
 > Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, 
resources and independence of the 
external auditor, and assessed their 
performance 
 > Reviewed proposals for the 
engagement of the external  
auditor for non-audit services, and 
confirmed that their independence  
was safeguarded 
The internal procedures implemented  
by the Company to ensure the Board 
maintains overall control for all material 
strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance matters affecting the 
Company are included within the  
internal control section of this Report. 
The Board establishes the standards  
and values that govern the Group and 
agrees the structure of the Group’s  
internal controls.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | 
61
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Engagement of the external auditor
Although the external auditor has been 
in place since the Company’s public listing 
in 2005, the external auditor periodically 
changes the audit partners at a Group, 
divisional and country level in accordance 
with professional and regulatory standards, 
in order to protect independence and 
objectivity and provide fresh challenge to 
the business. Such changes are carefully 
planned to ensure that the Group benefits 
from staff continuity without incurring 
undue risk of inefficiency.
The external auditor provides the Audit 
Committee with relevant reports,  
reviews, information and advice 
throughout the year as set out in  
the terms of their engagement. Their 
performance was formally assessed by  
the Audit Committee in conjunction with 
the executive management team, and  
the Audit Committee is satisfied that  
they continue to be effective and provide 
appropriate independent challenge of the 
Company’s management. In making its 
assessment of the external auditor, the 
Audit Committee had due regard to their 
expertise, resourcing and independence. 
As such, the Audit Committee has not 
considered it necessary this year to conduct 
a tender process for the appointment of 
its external auditor. Having carried out the 
review described above and having satisfied 
itself that the external auditor remains 
independent and effective, the Audit 
Committee has recommended to the Board 
that the external auditor be reappointed  
at the 2015 AGM.
The Audit Committee has been kept 
up-to-date with the development of new 
EU-wide regulations concerning audit 
tenure and the longevity of audit firm 
relationships with companies they audit.
KPMG has been in place as the Company’s 
external auditor since inception of the 
business in 2005. Under EU transitional 
arrangements, the current intention is to 
initiate an audit re-tender no later than 
2017 . The Audit Committee will keep this 
tendering timeframe under review, and will 
use its regular reviews of external auditor 
effectiveness to assess whether an earlier 
date for tender would be appropriate.
There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Audit Committee’s choice 
of external auditor.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the 
independence of the external auditor,  
the Audit Committee reviewed:
 > Changes in senior audit personnel  
in the audit plan for the current year
 > A report from the external auditor 
describing their arrangements to 
identify, report and manage any 
conflicts of interest
 > The extent of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor
To assess the effectiveness of the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:
 > The external auditor’s fulfilment of  
the agreed audit plan and variations 
from it, and reports highlighting the 
major issues that arose during the 
course of the audit
 > Feedback from the businesses 
evaluating the performance of  
each audit team
The external auditor is engaged to express 
an opinion on the financial statements. 
The audit includes the review and test  
of the system of internal financial control 
and the data contained in the financial 
statements to the extent necessary for 
expressing an audit opinion on the truth 
and fairness of the financial statements.
Non-audit services policy
The importance of maintaining the 
objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor, by minimising its 
involvement in projects of a non-audit 
nature, is of fundamental concern to  
the Audit Committee. It is, however, also 
acknowledged that, due to its detailed 
understanding of the Company’s business, 
it may sometimes be necessary to involve 
the external auditor in non-audit related 
work, principally comprising further 
assurance services relating to due diligence 
and other duties carried out in respect of 
acquisitions, disposals and tax services. 
The Audit Committee has adopted a 
policy in relation to the engagement of  
the external auditor to supply non-audit 
services, with defined parameters and 
approval requirements in relation to any 
such appointments.
The majority of the non-audit work carried 
out by the external auditor during the year 
relates to tax compliance services and 
acquisition-related activity in overseas 
jurisdictions, and the Audit Committee 
believes that given their experience the 
external auditor was the most appropriate 
suppliers of this work.
Details of the fees paid to KPMG during 
the year can be found in note 3 to the 
financial statements on page 115.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
62
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder , 
I am pleased to present my first 
remuneration report as Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee. 
As explained in the Strategic Report, 
Essentra delivered the ambitious targets set 
out in its Vision 2015 strategy, and is now 
moving into the next phase of development 
– Drive for 2020, the roadmap for the 
continued delivery of balanced, profitable 
growth. During the year, the Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the senior executive 
remuneration structure to ensure that  
it supports the strategic objectives of  
Drive for 2020. Following that review, we  
will be seeking shareholder approval for  
a revised Remuneration Policy Report at 
this year’s AGM.
Drive for 2020 and the executive  
pay structure
The Remuneration Committee has 
structured the revised Remuneration  
Policy so that it supports the financial 
objectives and strategic priorities of  
Drive for 2020 in a manner that is aligned 
with shareholders’ interests.
Supporting financial objectives
Our Drive for 2020 strategy seeks to create 
sustainable shareholder value through the 
delivery of balanced, profitable growth in 
our existing and future opportunity markets 
and technologies. The strategy also calls for 
strong conversion of profit into cash. 
The design of the future incentive 
arrangements provides a balanced reward 
for delivery of these financial objectives:
 > Annual bonus – rewards the delivery of 
performance annually, across a broad 
foundation of business fundamentals 
(revenue growth, operating profit 
growth and working capital 
performance), which should drive 
longer-term shareholder value creation
 > Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) – 
rewards the delivery of longer-term 
shareholder value creation through the 
measures of Earnings per Share (“EPS”) 
growth and relative Total Shareholder 
Return (“TSR”)
 > Performance targets will be set to 
ensure that maximum payouts under 
the incentive schemes are consistent 
with Drive for 2020, in particular the 
aspiration of doubling the size of the 
Company by 2020
Supporting strategic priorities
Our Drive for 2020 strategy requires  
the development of a focused and high 
performing executive team which 
continually seeks operational excellence  
and operates in a globally integrated 
manner. The pay structure will support 
these strategic priorities in the  
following ways:
 > In order to allow the Executive Directors 
to be fully focused on the delivery  
of Drive for 2020, the Remuneration 
Committee has committed to fix  
their pay arrangements throughout 
the three-year period of the new 
Remuneration Policy (2015-2017).  
This will include a pre-determined 
salary structure with no annual  
reviews throughout this period
 > A high performance culture will be 
emphasised by ensuring that variable 
pay forms a significant proportion of 
the total pay package for Executive 
Directors and senior executives
 > Challenging performance targets will 
drive operational excellence throughout 
the senior executive team
 > The LTIP award structure described 
below will help to establish a common 
culture throughout the senior executive 
team which focuses on the importance 
of shareholder value creation
Providing alignment with shareholders
Underlying Drive for 2020 is a focus on 
sustainable shareholder value creation.  
The pay structure will ensure that Executive 
Directors and other senior executives  
are aligned both with this concept and  
more broadly aligned with the interests  
of shareholders:
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
63
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER  > Executive Directors and other senior 
executives will receive an award over  
a fixed number of LTIP shares in each  
of 2015, 2016 and 2017 . This approach 
will provide direct alignment with the 
Drive for 2020 strategy of value creation, 
as executives will benefit along with 
shareholders if the share price rises  
(as their future LTIP awards will have  
a higher value) but will suffer along  
with shareholders if the share price falls 
(as their future LTIP awards will have  
a lower value)
 > In order to ensure Executive Directors 
and other senior executives are aligned 
with shareholders, they are required to 
build up and retain a material holding 
of Company shares. For Colin Day and 
Matthew Gregory, this requirement is 
shares worth 300% and 200% of 
salary respectively, and both Executive 
Directors have built up shareholdings 
that are already in excess of their  
basic requirement
 > We have strengthened the existing 
malus and clawback provisions within 
our incentive plans. This means that all 
elements of Executive Directors’ variable 
pay are now covered by these provisions, 
and the range of circumstances in 
which the Remuneration Committee 
can apply malus or clawback has  
been widened 
In summary, our Executive Directors’ pay arrangements for the next three years will comprise the following elements:
Element of pay details
Performance Conditions  
(2015 awards)
Basic annual 
salary
1
Colin Day £675,000 (fixed until 1 January 2018)
Matthew Gregory £340,000 in 2015, £375,000 in 2016, £390,000 in 2017
n/a
Pension Colin Day 25% of salary
Matthew Gregory 20% of salary
n/a
Benefits Private medical insurance, company car and / or allowance, life insurance cover n/a
Annual bonus Maximum potential of 150% of salary for Colin Day and 125% of salary for Matthew Gregory
Half paid in cash and half deferred in shares under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus (“DASB”) for three years
Subject to malus and clawback provisions
Balanced growth (revenue and 
operating profit), working capital 
and personal objectives
LTIP 2015 award
Colin Day –award of shares worth 300% of salary
Matthew Gregory – award of shares worth 200% of his approximate average salary for the period 2015-2017
2016 & 2017 awards
2
Colin Day and Matthew Gregory receive an award over the same number of shares as they were granted in 2015
Subject to malus and clawback provisions
50% based on EPS growth, 
50% based on relative TSR
Shareholding  
guidelines
Colin Day 300% of salary
Matthew Gregory 200% of salary
n/a
1 As highlighted in previous Remuneration Reports, Matthew Gregory was brought onto the Board at a salary level that was set deliberately well below 
the market rate for an established finance director, with the intention that, subject to strong progression in the role, the Remuneration Committee 
would implement a series of phased salary increases to bring his salary to a more appropriate level. The Board has been pleased by the development 
of Matthew Gregory as Group Finance Director and these proposed increases, if implemented in full (which will be subject to continued strong 
performance), will bring his salary to a more appropriate level by 2017 .
2 The flexibility to award up to a certain number of shares is limited in the LTIP rules to the 2016 and 2017 awards only. Any subsequent award would  
be limited under the rules to a maximum of shares worth 300% of salary. The Remuneration Committee does have the discretion, which it could elect 
to use in the event of an exceptional share price rise or other circumstances, to award the Executive Directors fewer LTIP shares in 2016 or 2017 than 
they were awarded in 2015.
We believe that these arrangements provide a transparent pay structure that supports the objectives and priorities of Drive for 2020,  
and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives with those of the shareholders. 
We undertook a thorough consultation with our major shareholders, the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder Services  
in relation to our proposed new Policy for Executive Directors. We were pleased with the positive feedback which we received during the 
consultation process.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
64
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Performance and reward in 2014
As set out in the Strategic Report, the  
year to 31 December 2014 saw strong 
growth in both revenue and operating 
profit. As a result of this performance, 
as well as achieving our working capital 
target, the Remuneration Committee 
determined that the annual bonus  
would be 60% of the maximum for both 
Colin Day and Matthew Gregory. Further 
details relating to the determination of the 
annual bonus outturn are in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration on pages 75  
to 86.
In addition, as a result of three-year 
annualised EPS growth of 22.1% and strong 
relative TSR performance, the August 2011 
LTIP award will vest in full in February 2015, 
and 85% of the April 2012 LTIP award is 
currently expected to vest in April 2015.  
More details are provided on page 79. 
The rest of this Remuneration Report  
is split into two sections in line with 
legislative reporting regulations:
 > The Remuneration Policy Report – 
contains details of the various 
components of our future pay 
structure. The Remuneration Policy 
Report will be subject to a binding 
shareholder vote at our 2015 AGM
 > The Annual Report on Remuneration 
contains details of pay received by 
Directors in 2014, and also contains full 
details of how we intend to implement 
our pay policy during 2015. The Annual 
Report on Remuneration will be subject 
to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM
Additionally, there will be a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM to 
approve the introduction of our new 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP 2015”) 
which replaces our existing plan which 
expires later this year. The detailed terms  
of LTIP 2015 are set out in the accompanying 
Notice of Meeting for the 2015 AGM and  
key details of LTIP 2015, in so far as they 
affect the Executive Directors, are  
outlined in this Remuneration Report.
I hope you will find this Remuneration Report 
to be clear and helpful in understanding 
our remuneration practices, and that you 
will be supportive of the resolutions relating 
to remuneration at the AGM. As ever, the 
Remuneration Committee welcomes any 
questions or comments from shareholders.
LORRAINE TRAINER
Remuneration Committee  
Chairman
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
65
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER This Remuneration Committee’s Report to 
shareholders for the year ended 31 December 
2014 sets out the policies under which  
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
are remunerated, and incorporates tables 
of information showing details of the 
remuneration and share interests of the 
Directors. The Remuneration Committee’s 
Report, including the Remuneration Policy 
Report and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration, is intended to be in full 
compliance with the requirements of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (accounts and reports) Regulations 
2013, the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2008 (as amended) issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council and the Listing Rules.
The current Remuneration Policy Report 
was approved by shareholders at the 2014 
AGM and can be found on the Company’s 
website www.essentra.com. 
As outlined in the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman’s letter, the 
Remuneration Committee has reviewed 
the continued appropriateness of the 
current Remuneration Policy Report in the 
context of the Company’s new corporate 
strategy, Drive for 2020. Following that 
review, shareholder approval will be  
sought at the 2015 AGM for the new 
Remuneration Policy Report set out below, 
which is intended to ensure our executive 
remuneration structure supports Drive for 
2020. Subject to shareholder approval, the 
new Remuneration Policy Report will take 
effect immediately after the forthcoming 
2015 AGM and apply to the financial year 
from 1 January 2015.
The key changes in the new Remuneration 
Policy Report from the current Remuneration 
Policy Report are:
 > Throughout the three-year life of the 
new Remuneration Policy Report, the 
current Executive Directors’ salaries will 
not be reviewed annually. Instead they 
will be set at the pre-determined levels 
set out in the policy table on page 68.
 > The current Executive Directors will 
receive a fixed LTIP award in each of 
2016 and 2017 over up to the same 
number of performance shares as 
awarded to them in 2015
 > The potential circumstances in which 
malus and clawback can be applied  
to the annual bonus and LTIP 2015 
have been extended, in line with best 
practice and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014
 > DASB and LTIP 2015 awards may accrue 
the value of dividends paid during the 
period between grant and vesting
This section of the Remuneration 
Committee Report will be subject  
to a binding shareholder vote at  
the 2015 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee  
determines and recommends to the  
Board the framework for the remuneration 
of the Executive Directors, the Company 
Secretary and the Chairman of the Board. 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors is the responsibility of the  
Board as a whole and no Director is 
involved in determining or voting on  
their own remuneration. 
The Chief Executive’s remuneration 
proposals for the members of the Group 
Management Committee are reviewed by 
the Remuneration Committee, and 
recommendations as regards those 
proposals are made to the Board. 
The Remuneration Committee also takes 
note of the remuneration policy as detailed 
by the Chief Executive in respect of other 
levels of management in the Company, 
and makes such recommendations to  
the Chief Executive as the Remuneration 
Committee deems appropriate. The 
Remuneration Committee has regard  
to the proposed remuneration policy  
for other management and employees 
across the Group, when determining 
recommendations on remuneration  
for the Executive Directors and other  
senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the 
risks surrounding the Company’s existing 
remuneration policies on an annual basis, 
and has determined that there are no 
significant concerns with the structure  
or operation of the remuneration policy.
In determining the policy for the Executive 
Directors, the Remuneration Committee’s 
objective is to ensure that those individuals 
are provided with appropriate incentives  
to encourage enhanced performance  
and to reward individual contributions  
to the success of the Company. The 
Remuneration Committee also intends for 
the remuneration structure to encourage 
Executive Directors to act in a fair and 
responsible manner, having regard to the 
long-term performance of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee’s main 
responsibilities are to:
 > Develop the Company’s remuneration 
policy for the Executive Directors and 
other senior executives, covering basic 
salary, bonus, long-term incentives, 
retirement provisions and other benefits
 > Strike an appropriate balance between 
(i) the fixed and variable; and (ii) the 
cash and equity-related components 
of total remuneration packages
 > Review and determine the terms  
of employment and remuneration  
of the individual Executive Directors and 
the Company Secretary, including any 
specific retirement or severance terms
 > Determine the remuneration of the 
Chairman of the Board
 > Establish and review the operation of 
any employee share plans, including the 
granting of awards, the setting and 
testing of performance conditions and 
exercising of any awards under the LTIP
 > Select, appoint and determine the terms 
of reference for independent consultants 
to advise the Remuneration Committee 
on remuneration matters
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
66
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT The Remuneration Committee’s key 
objectives are to:
 > Align senior executives’ remuneration 
with the interests of shareholders and 
other stakeholders, particularly in the 
design of the performance-related 
elements of their remuneration 
packages
 > Establish a competitive remuneration 
package attracting, retaining and 
motivating high quality executives
 > Promote the achievement of both the 
Company’s annual and longer-term 
strategic objectives, including Drive  
for 2020, by providing a remuneration 
package that contains appropriately 
stretching and motivating targets
Alignment with Company strategy
The Board as a whole establishes the 
remuneration policy, and considers the 
alignment of Company performance and  
the remuneration of its senior executives, 
including the Executive Directors, to be  
of the utmost importance. It believes  
that senior executives should be highly 
rewarded (on a market-competitive basis) 
for the delivery of stretching goals, but 
should also receive reduced rewards  
when the business does not perform to 
expectations. To achieve this alignment: 
 > Essentra’s remuneration package is 
leveraged with a high percentage of  
pay “at risk” against the achievement  
of stretching goals
 > One half of any bonus for Executive 
Directors is delivered in the form of 
Essentra shares which will vest after a 
three-year period
 > Executive Directors and other senior 
executives will receive a fixed annual 
award of shares under the LTIP 2015  
for the lifetime of this Remuneration 
Policy, so that they benefit if the share 
price rises but suffer, along with 
shareholders, if the share price falls
 > Annual bonus and LTIP awards are 
principally determined by measures of 
the Company’s financial performance
 > Malus and clawback provisions apply 
to all elements of Executive Directors’ 
variable pay
The Remuneration Committee considers 
all elements of the remuneration package 
as a whole. It looks to ensure that an 
appropriate balance is maintained 
between them, so that the need for  
both short-term success and long-term 
sustainable growth is recognised. The 
Remuneration Committee also ensures 
that non-financial business measures and 
individual objectives reflect adequately  
the Company’s environmental, social  
and governance responsibilities.
The structure:
 > Reflects the Company’s Drive for 2020 
strategic objectives
 > Ensures that incentive plan metrics 
and targets provide executive reward 
for delivering the business objectives, 
but do not encourage any unnecessary 
risk taking 
 > Rewards the delivery of performance 
annually, across a broad foundation  
of business fundamentals which 
should lead to growth in EPS, a key 
metric for shareholders
 > Focuses rewards so they are delivered 
if the Company delivers financial 
growth in line with stretching targets
 > Rewards executives if they deliver 
outstanding performance which 
creates significant and sustainable 
shareholder value
 > Requires Essentra executives to  
hold significant shareholdings in  
the Company
 > Rewards executives for organic and 
acquisition growth
 > Incorporates malus and clawback 
provisions to safeguard shareholders’ 
interests
Summary of components of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee structures 
senior executive remuneration in two 
distinct parts: (i) fixed remuneration  
of basic annual salary, pension and 
benefits; and (ii) variable performance-
related remuneration in the form of cash 
bonuses, deferred share bonuses and 
long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors  
is structured so that the variable 
performance-related pay element forms  
a significant portion of each package.  
The majority of total remuneration at the 
maximum performance level will derive 
from the Company’s long-term incentive 
arrangements, which are aligned to 
Essentra’s ambition under Drive for 2020  
to create long-term shareholder value.
The table on pages 68 to 71 should be read in 
conjunction with the Remuneration Policy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | 
67
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose  
and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
Basic annual 
salary
To reflect the 
particular skills and 
experience of an 
individual and to 
provide a 
competitive basic 
salary
For the duration of this Remuneration Policy, basic 
salaries of the current Executive Directors will be set  
at levels not exceeding those set out in this table.
These salaries have been set by reference to a rounded 
assessment which considers:
 > The skills, performance and experience of the 
individual
 > Their roles and responsibilities
 > External market data
Colin Day: £675,000 (fixed 
until 1 January 2018)
Matthew Gregory:
 > From 1 January 2015: 
£340,000
 > From 1 January 2016: 
£375,000
 > From 1 January 2017: 
£390,000
Not applicable
Annual bonus
To incentivise the 
delivery of Company 
performance-
related objectives, 
to aid retention and 
to align Directors’ 
interests with those 
of the Company’s 
shareholders
One half of the total annual bonus is paid in cash 
shortly after the announcement of the annual results.
The other half is deferred into shares in the DASB, 
which will normally vest after three years subject to 
continued service
Performance is assessed against measures and 
targets which are established on an annual basis  
by the Remuneration Committee. As performance 
increases so does the percentage payable up to  
the maximum
The bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions 
for a period of three years following the determination 
of the bonus. Circumstances in which these provisions 
could be applied by the Remuneration Committee are 
material misstatement in the Company’s financial 
statements, error in assessing the performance 
conditions, serious misconduct by an individual or 
serious reputational damage to the Company or a 
relevant business unit
An additional payment (in the form of cash or shares) 
may be made in respect of shares which vest under 
deferred awards to reflect the value of dividends 
which would have been paid on those shares during 
the vesting period (this payment may assume that 
dividends had been reinvested in Company shares on 
a cumulative basis)
 
Chief Executive – 150%  
of basic salary
Group Finance Director 
– 125% of basic salary
The bonus will be based 
on performance assessed 
over one year using 
appropriate financial, 
strategic and individual 
performance measures
The majority of the bonus 
will be determined by 
measure(s) of the 
Company’s financial 
performance 
The remainder of the 
bonus will be based on 
financial, strategic or 
operational measures 
appropriate to the 
individual Director 
The selected measures for 
the next financial year  
are set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration 
on page 85
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
68
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose  
and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 (“LTIP 2015”)
To drive the 
long-term delivery 
of the Company’s 
strategic objectives, 
with particular focus 
on the delivery of 
Drive for 2020, to  
aid retention and  
to align Directors’ 
interests with those 
of the Company’s 
shareholders
An annual award of performance share awards with  
a three-year performance and usually with a three 
year vesting period
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions 
for a period of three years following the vesting of the 
awards. Circumstances in which these provisions could 
be applied by the Remuneration Committee are 
material misstatement in the Company’s financial 
statements, error in assessing the performance 
conditions, serious misconduct by an individual or 
serious reputational damage to the Company or  
a relevant business unit
An additional payment (in the form of cash or shares) 
may be made in respect of shares which vest under 
LTIP 2015 awards, to reflect the value of dividends 
which would have been paid on those shares during 
the vesting period (this payment may assume that 
dividends had been reinvested in Company shares on  
a cumulative basis)
An award to any 
Executive Director would 
be limited to a maximum 
of 300% of salary, with the 
exception that Colin Day 
and Matthew Gregory  
will receive a fixed award 
over up to the same 
number of performance 
shares in each of 2016 
and 2017 as is awarded  
to them in 2015
The basis for the 
determination of the size 
of the 2015 award for 
each of Colin Day and 
Matthew Gregory, within 
the 300% of salary limit, 
is outlined in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration
Vesting will be subject to 
performance conditions, 
as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee 
on an annual basis. 
The performance 
conditions will usually 
consist of relative TSR 
performance and 
adjusted EPS 
performance, measured 
over a three-year period
The Remuneration 
Committee may adjust 
the weightings of the 
performance conditions to 
include an additional or 
alternative performance 
measure which is aligned 
to the corporate strategy.
25% of each element 
vests at threshold 
performance, usually 
rising on a straight-line 
basis for performance up 
to the maximum level for 
full payment 
Former plan
Long-Term Incentive Plan B (“LTIP B”)
To drive the 
long-term delivery 
of the Company’s 
strategic objectives, 
to aid retention and  
to align Directors’ 
interests with those 
of the Company’s 
shareholders
An annual award of performance share awards with 
a three-year performance and vesting period
No further awards will  
be granted to Executive 
Directors under this plan
Outstanding awards  
are subject to a 
combination of relative 
TSR performance  
and adjusted EPS 
performance, measured 
over a three-year period
25% of each element vests 
at threshold performance, 
rising on a straight-line 
basis for performance up 
to the maximum level for 
full payment
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | 
69
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose  
and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
All Employee Plans
To create 
alignment of 
employees’ 
interests with those 
of shareholders, 
and an awareness 
of the Company’s 
share price 
performance
Under the UK Sharesave, employees (including 
Executive Directors) are invited to enter a savings 
contract of three years or five years, whereby  
the proceeds can be used towards the exercise  
of an option granted at the time they participate.  
The option price can be up to a 20% discount to  
the share price at the time invitations to participate 
are issued
An equivalent US Plan is operated in a similar 
manner to the UK Sharesave, although with a 
two-year savings contract and an option price  
of up to a 15% discount
For the UK plan, shares 
worth up to the value of 
the savings an Executive 
Director agrees to make 
over the saving period  
at the previously agreed 
option price. The savings 
amount is subject to the 
HMRC limit, currently 
£500 per month
The US Plan is limited to 
the monthly dollar 
equivalent of the UK 
Sharesave plan
No performance 
conditions apply to  
All Employee Plans
Pension
To provide 
cost-effective 
long-term benefits 
comparable with 
similar roles in 
similar companies
A contribution to a defined contribution plan or paid 
as a cash supplement
Chief Executive – 25% 
of basic salary
Group Finance Director  
– 20% of basic salary
Not applicable
Other benefits
To provide 
cost-effective 
benefits 
comparable with 
similar roles in 
similar companies
Other benefits include medical expenses, life 
insurance, a company car and / or car allowance 
and fuel allowance 
The Remuneration Committee may vary these 
benefits from time to time to suit business needs, 
but they will be provided on broadly similar terms to 
those offered to other Group employees
Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of 
reasonable expenses
There is no overall 
maximum, as the level  
of benefits depends on 
the annual cost of 
providing individual items 
in the relevant local 
market and the 
individual’s specific role
Not applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
70
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose  
and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
Shareholding requirement
To align the 
interests of 
Executive Directors 
and shareholders, 
and to encourage a 
focus on long-term 
performance and 
risk management
These shareholding guidelines are to be built up over 
five years from date of appointment
The Remuneration Committee will review progress 
towards the guidelines on an annual basis, and has 
the discretion to adjust the guidelines in what it feels 
are appropriate circumstances
The guideline minimum 
level is 300% of basic 
salary for the Chief 
Executive and 200%  
of basic salary for the 
Group Finance Director
Non-Executive Directors 
are encouraged to hold a 
minimum of 7 ,500 shares 
Not applicable
Non-Executive Directors
To attract 
high-calibre 
Non-Executive 
Directors with the 
relevant experience  
and skills
The fee for the Chairman of the Board is determined 
by the Remuneration Committee, while the fees for 
Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board 
as a whole 
A basic fee is payable to all Non-Executive Directors 
with supplementary fees for those with additional 
responsibilities, such as acting as Senior Independent 
Director or chairing a Board Committee
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis with reference 
to market levels in companies of a comparable size 
and complexity, and taking account of the 
responsibilities and time commitment of each role
No Non-Executive Director participates in the 
Group’s incentive arrangements or pension plan, or 
receives any other benefits other than where travel 
to the Company’s registered office is recognised as a 
taxable benefit, in which case a Non-Executive 
Director may receive the grossed-up costs of travel 
as a benefit 
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to 
reimbursement of reasonable expenses
Fees for the current year 
are stated in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration
Fee increases may be 
greater than those of the 
wider workforce in any 
particular year, as they 
reflect changes to 
responsibilities and time 
commitments, and the 
periodic nature of any 
increases
Not applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | 
71
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Colin Day
0 £000 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
Minimum
Meeting 
expectations
Maximum
100
46
22
27 27
26 52
0 £000 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
Minimum
Meeting 
expectations
Maximum
Matthew Gregory
100
51 26 23
47 27 26
Remuneration Committee discretion
The Remuneration Committee will operate 
the annual bonus plan and long-term 
incentive plans according to their respective 
rules, and will be consistent with normal 
market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC 
rules where relevant, including flexibility  
in a number of regards. These include:
 > When to make awards and payments
 > How to determine the size of an award 
or a payment, or when and how much 
of an award should vest
 > Who receives an award or payment
 > How to deal with a change of control 
or restructuring of the Group
 > Whether a participant is a good / bad 
leaver for incentive plan purposes, and 
whether and what proportion of 
awards vest and timing of delivery
 > How and whether an award (or an award 
of shares outlined in this Remuneration 
Policy Report that is yet to be granted) 
may be adjusted in certain circumstances 
(eg, rights issues, corporate restructuring, 
events and special dividends)
 > What the weighting, measures and 
targets should be for the annual bonus 
plan and LTIP from year to year
The Remuneration Committee also retains 
the ability within the policy to adjust the 
targets and / or set different measures and 
alter weightings for the annual bonus plan, 
and to adjust targets for the LTIP if events 
occur which cause it to determine that the 
conditions are unable to fulfil their original 
intended purpose.
The Remuneration Committee may make 
minor amendments to the policy as set  
out in this Remuneration Policy Report  
for regulatory, exchange control, tax or 
administrative purposes, or to take account 
of change in legislation without obtaining 
shareholder approval for that amendment.
Existing awards
The Remuneration Committee intends to 
honour any commitments entered into 
with current or former Directors on their 
original terms, including outstanding LTIP 
and DASB Plan awards which have been 
disclosed in previous remuneration reports 
and, where relevant, are consistent with a 
previous policy approved by shareholders. 
Any of these payments to former Directors 
will be set out in the Remuneration 
Committee Report as and when they occur.
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office, 
notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the policy set out above, where the 
terms of the payment were agreed at a 
time when the relevant individual was not 
a Director of the Company and, in the 
opinion of the Remuneration Committee, 
the payment was not in consideration for 
the individual becoming a Director of the 
Company. 
Choice of performance measures and 
approach to target setting
The Remuneration Committee sets 
performance metrics under both the annual 
bonus plan and LTIP which are clearly 
aligned to the Group’s strategy and are part 
of its key performance indicators.
For the annual bonus plan and LTIP there is  
a strong focus on the financial objectives of 
Drive for 2020.
Personal objective performance measures 
within the annual bonus are also directly 
linked to key strategic objectives.
Targets are set at the start of each 
performance period by the Remuneration 
Committee taking into account relevant 
internal and external reference points, and 
are designed to be appropriately stretching. 
Remuneration mix 
The graph below demonstrates the 
potential remuneration mix for 2015 at 
below target, target and maximum for 
each of the Executive Directors. 
Assumptions: 
• Salary as at 1 January 2015: Colin Day £675,000 and Matthew Gregory £340,000
• Pension: Colin Day 25% of salary and Matthew Gregory 20% of salary
• Benefits: 2014 reported taxable benefits
• Bonus maximum of 150% of salary for Colin Day and 125% of salary for Matthew Gregory
• Assumes an LTIP award of 300% of salary for Colin Day and 200% of approximate average 2015-2017 salary for Matthew Gregory
• Target 50% of annual bonus maximum paid and 25% of LTIP award vests
• Maximum 100% of annual bonus maximum paid and 100% of LTIP award vests
• No share price growth or dividend accrual considered
• Sharesave awards have been ignored
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
72
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT New appointments
 > Basic salary – will be set based on 
relevant market data, experience  
and skills of the individual, internal 
relativities across the Company and 
the individual’s current basic salary
 > Any annual increase in salary for  
a new appointment would be at  
the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, and would typically be 
broadly consistent with the average 
salary increase for UK employees. 
However, larger increases may be 
considered appropriate in certain 
circumstances. For example, where 
new appointees have initial basic 
salaries set below market rates, any 
shortfall will be managed with phased 
increases (which may be greater than 
those offered to the wider workforce) 
over a period of two to three years, 
subject to their development in the role
 > Pension – a contribution to a  
defined contribution plan or a cash 
supplement may be offered, with the 
relevant maximum not exceeding that 
for the current Chief Executive as a 
percentage of salary
 > Other benefits – as provided to current 
Executive Directors. Where necessary, 
the Remuneration Committee may 
approve the payment of relocation 
expenses to facilitate recruitment, and 
flexibility is retained by the Company 
to pay for legal fees and other costs 
incurred by the individual in relation to 
their appointment
 > Bonus – the annual bonus described  
in the Remuneration Policy Report 
table on pages 68 to 71 will apply  
to a new appointee with the relevant 
maximum not exceeding that for the 
current Chief Executive, and, in the 
first year, being pro-rated to reflect 
the proportion of employment during 
the year. The Remuneration 
Committee may set different 
performance measures and targets to 
those of the other Executive Directors, 
depending on the timing and scope of 
any appointment. In order to facilitate 
recruitment, the Remuneration 
Committee may deem it necessary  
to guarantee a level of bonus, in 
compensation for any bonus forgone 
at a current employer. This guarantee 
will be limited to the bonus in relation 
to the first year of employment
 > Share incentives – new appointees  
will be granted awards under the  
LTIP up to the limit described in the 
Remuneration Report Policy table.  
An award may be made shortly 
following a new appointment
 > Buy-out awards – to potentially 
facilitate recruitment through the 
buy-out of existing awards and 
compensation arrangements from 
their current employer, the 
Remuneration Committee will  
retain the ability to make a one-off 
buy-out award
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee 
will take account of all relevant factors, 
including any performance conditions 
attached to incentive awards, the likelihood 
of those conditions being met, the 
proportion of the vesting / performance 
period remaining and the form of the award 
(eg, cash or shares) . The overriding principle 
will be that any replacement buy-out award 
should be of comparable commercial value 
to the compensation which has been 
forfeited. Buy-out awards will be made 
using existing incentive arrangements 
where possible, but it may be necessary to 
use the exemption under Listing Rule 9 .4.2. 
Shareholders will be informed of any such 
payments at the time of appointment. 
 > In the case of internal appointments, 
or appointments following the 
Company’s acquisition of or merger 
with another company or business,  
any variable pay element or legacy 
arrangements in respect of the prior 
role would normally be allowed to pay 
out according to its terms, adjusted  
as relevant, to take into account  
the appointment 
 > For external and new internal 
appointments, the Remuneration 
Committee may set lower share 
ownership guidelines, or permit a 
longer period for them to be met
 > Non-Executive Directors – in the  
event of the appointment of a new 
Non-Executive Director, remuneration 
arrangements will normally be in line 
with the structure set out in the 
Remuneration Policy Report table.  
In the event that a Non-Executive 
Director is required to temporarily  
take on the role of an Executive 
Director, their remuneration may 
include any of the elements listed  
in the Remuneration Policy Report 
table for Executive Directors
Service contracts and exit payments
 > Service contracts normally continue until 
the Director’s agreed retirement date or 
such other date as the parties agree
 > The policy for executive service 
contracts is that notice periods  
will normally not exceed 12 months. 
Colin Day has a service contract dated  
1 April 2011 and Matthew Gregory has  
a service contract dated 7 September 
2012, both with a notice period of  
12 months from either party. The 
service contracts for the Executive 
Directors are available for inspection 
by shareholders at each AGM and 
during normal business hours at the 
Company’s registered office
The Remuneration Committee’s policy  
in relation to termination of service 
contracts is to apply an appropriate level  
of mitigation, having regard to all of the 
circumstances of the individual, the 
termination of employment and to  
any legal advice received. The Company 
has the right to make a payment in  
lieu of notice (such payment being made 
based on salary and at the Remuneration 
Committee’s discretion as to the value  
of benefits), and any such payment may 
be made in monthly instalments at the 
Company’s discretion, with a requirement 
for the individual to make reasonable 
endeavours to find alternative employment 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | 
73
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT and may be reduced to take into account 
any sums earned during the payment 
period by way of employment elsewhere
 > There are no enhanced provisions  
on a change of control
 > In certain circumstances, such as  
gross misconduct, the Company may 
terminate employment immediately 
without notice or payment 
 > In addition, any statutory entitlements 
or payments to settle or compromise 
claims in connection with a termination 
would be made as necessary
 > The service contract for any new 
appointment would be on a similar 
basis to that described above
 > The payment of any annual bonus will 
be at the Remuneration Committee’s 
discretion, based on the individual 
circumstances and would be pro-rated 
for the period of service and subject to 
performance achievements, and may 
be paid entirely in cash
 > Under the rules of the LTIP 2015 and 
LTIP B, outstanding awards may vest  
if a participant leaves for specified 
reasons, including injury, disability,  
ill health, death, retirement with the 
Company’s agreement, redundancy,  
or the business or company in which 
the participant is employed ceasing  
to be part of the Group or on a change 
of control. In these circumstances  
a participant’s award vests on an 
appropriate time pro rata basis  
(unless the Remuneration Committee 
decides it is inappropriate to do so), 
subject to the satisfaction of the 
relevant performance criteria at the 
normal vesting date with the balance  
of the award lapsing. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to determine 
that the performance period should end 
on the date of cessation of employment 
if it feels this is appropriate. If, however, 
the termination of employment is not 
for one of the specified reasons, and 
the Remuneration Committee does 
not exercise its discretion to allow an 
award to vest a participant’s award 
lapses in full on date of cessation 
 > The DASB awards may vest if a 
participant leaves for specified 
reasons, including death, the business 
or company in which the participant is 
employed ceasing to be part of the 
Group, retirement with the agreement 
of the Company or at the discretion of 
the Board. DASBs will either vest on 
the normal vesting date or such earlier 
date as the Board determines
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors do not have 
service contracts and do not participate  
in any Company pension, share or incentive 
schemes. In accordance with best practice, 
letters of appointment have been issued  
for all Non-Executive Directors for an initial 
period of three years, but may be 
terminated by either party with three 
months’ notice. No compensation is 
payable on termination, except for fees  
and expenses accrued to date. These letters 
are available for inspection by shareholders 
at each AGM and during normal business 
hours at the Company’s registered office.
Differences in remuneration policy 
between Executive Directors and  
other employees
The Remuneration Committee is kept 
informed of pay and employment 
conditions in the wider Group and these 
are factored into deliberations when setting 
the remuneration policy for Executive 
Directors. The Group-wide salary increase 
budget and the proposed increase for 
UK-based employees, or employees of such 
other jurisdiction within which the Executive 
Directors operate or reside, is considered  
by the Remuneration Committee when 
determining any basic salary increase for 
Executive Directors. 
As stated previously, the overall 
remuneration package for Executive 
Directors is structured so that the variable 
performance-related pay element forms  
a more significant portion compared to pay 
for other employees. This policy is to ensure 
there is a clear link between the individual 
and corporate performance achieved, the 
value this creates for shareholders and  
the overall reward to Executive Directors. 
The weighting of variable pay will vary 
throughout the Group based on the 
seniority of the individual, the role and 
specific responsibilities. While tailored 
annual bonuses are offered to a large 
number of employees, long-term incentives  
are targeted at more senior levels of 
management where they have the most 
influence on overall value creation. 
How the views of employees are taken 
into account
The Company does not actively consult  
with employees on matters of executive 
remuneration. Given the diverse geographies 
and pay cultures in which the Group 
operates, the Remuneration Committee 
believes any consultation is unlikely to 
produce relevant or material feedback. 
How the views of shareholders are 
taken into account
The Remuneration Committee has 
consulted with major shareholders and 
investor bodies in the past when material 
changes to the policy have been proposed, 
and this approach will continue in the 
future with the overall aim to maintain  
an open and transparent dialogue. 
A thorough consultation process was 
undertaken with our major shareholders 
and representative bodies before this new 
Remuneration Policy Report was submitted 
for the approval of all shareholders.
External appointments
Essentra recognises its senior executives can 
benefit from serving in a personal capacity 
as non-executive directors of non-Essentra 
Group companies. It is, at the same time, 
conscious of the corporate governance 
recommendations that Executive Directors 
should take account of the time 
commitment required by a non-executive 
position. Executive Directors are permitted 
to accept non-executive directorships 
offered by listed companies and other 
organisations, which provide industry 
experience or public service. Such outside 
appointments are subject to prior Board 
approval, taking into account existing 
duties, potential conflicts of interest and 
time commitments outside of Essentra’s 
responsibilities. Any fees earned from these 
roles may be retained by the Executive 
Director.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
74
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Remuneration 
Committee processes
The Remuneration Committee 
throughout the year consisted of 
Lorraine Trainer (appointed as 
Committee Chairman 29 April 2014), 
Peter Hill and Terry Twigger. Paul 
Drechsler stood down as Committee 
Chairman and as a member of the 
Remuneration Committee with  
effect from 29 April 2014.
This section of the Remuneration 
Report will be subject to an advisory 
vote at the 2015 AGM.
Membership as at 31 December 2014 
and attendance
Lorraine Trainer  
Non-Executive Director 
3 (3)
Terry Twigger 
SI Non-Executive Director
3 (3)
Peter Hill 
Non-Executive Director
3 (3)
The Company Secretary & General Counsel 
acts as secretary to the Remuneration 
Committee.
Remuneration Committee  
2014 key activities
 > Approved the Remuneration Report 
for the Annual Report 2013
 > Approved a revision of the UK 
Sharesave Scheme rules for proposing 
at the 2014 AGM
 > Approved a new US Stock Purchase Plan 
for proposing at the 2014 AGM 
 > Reviewed and approved a UK 
Sharesave invitation for 2014
 > Reviewed and approved a US Stock 
Purchase Plan invitation for 2014 
 > Approved the 2015 cash bonus 
payments, including the achievement 
of the 2014 personal objectives 
 > Approved the bonus rules and targets 
for 2014, including the personal 
objectives for the Group Management 
Committee
 > Approved the LTIP B awards made  
in April 2014
 > Monitored the Group Leadership 
Team’s shareholding requirements
 > Reviewed Executive Director and 
Company Secretary basic salaries  
for 2015
 > Exercised discretion over good leaver 
terms for the Company’s share 
incentive plans
 > Reviewed the senior executive 
remuneration risk policy 
 > Reviewed the shareholder feedback  
of the 2013 Remuneration Report, 
including the 2014 AGM voting results
 > Assessed the impact of Drive for 2020 
on the remuneration structure for 
senior executives
 > Reviewed the current LTIP award 
strategy taking into consideration  
the requirement that the rules needed 
to be approved by shareholders
Advice
During the year, the Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, Paul Drechsler and the 
Group Human Resources Director were 
invited by the Remuneration Committee 
to provide views and advice. In addition, 
with the approval of the Remuneration 
Committee, the Company received 
services and advice from the following 
independent and expert consultants:
 > New Bridge Street, a part of Aon 
Hewitt, who are a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group  
and have signed up to its Code of 
Conduct, provided advice on the 
Company’s long-term share incentive 
plans and on the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and other senior 
executives within the Company.  
New Bridge Street provided no  
other services to the Company.  
Fees charged for the year under  
review were £59,000. Aon Hewitt  
also provided actuarial advice to the 
Company for the US pension scheme 
and are appointed as the Group’s 
insurance broker 
 > Deloitte LLP , who are a member of  
the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and have signed up to its Code of 
Conduct, provided advice on the 
Company’s long-term share incentive 
plan and basic salaries for Executive 
Directors. Fees charged for the year 
under review are £5,750. Other practices 
within Deloitte provided tax services  
to the Company during 2014
The Remuneration Committee 
continuously monitors the Company’s 
relationship with independent advisers. 
The Company is comfortable that no 
conflicts of interest exist.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | 
75
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Total Single Remuneration Table for 2014 (audited)
The remuneration received by Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 (and the 31 December 2013 comparative)  
was as follows:
Year
Salary and 
fees
£000
Taxable 
benefits
1
£000
Cash in 
lieu of 
pension
2
£000
Bonus (cash 
and deferred 
shared)
3
£000
Long-Term 
Incentive  
Plan
£000
Other
6
£000
Total
£000
Executive Directors
Colin Day 2014 618 27 155 557 2,827
4
– 4,184
2013 600 19 150 900 2,155
5
– 3,824
Matthew Gregory 2014 300 15 60 225 537
4
– 1,137
2013 280 13 56 350 359
5
61 1,119
Non-Executive Directors
Jeff Harris 2014 190 – – – – – 190
2013 178 – – – – – 178
Paul Drechsler 2014 55 – – – – – 55
2013 61 – – – – – 61
Peter Hill 2014 50 – – – – – 50
2013 23 – – – – – 23
Lorraine Trainer 2014 57 – – – – – 57
2013 23 – – – – – 23
Terry Twigger 2014 64 – – – – – 64
2013 56 – – – – – 56
Lars Emilson 2014 – – – – – – –
2013 8 – – – – – 8
1
 Taxable benefits comprises of a fully expensed car and / or cash allowance plus private medical insurance and life insurance cover
2
 Colin Day receives a pension contribution of 25% of basic salary while Matthew Gregory receives a pension contribution of 15% of basic salary plus  
5% paid into the Company Scheme by the Company
3
 50% of the annual bonus is deferred into shares for a period of three years. Further details on the bonus relating to performance in 2014 are set out below 
4
 These values represent the estimated value of vesting of LTIP B awards whose performance conditions ended during 2014. The actual vesting date for these 
awards will be during 2015. Further details on these awards are set out below 
5
 The values on these awards have been restated to reflect the actual value at the date of vesting. For Colin Day’s LTIP B award, this reflects a share price as  
at 20 April 2014 of £8.295 compared to the estimated £7 .90 used in last year’s table. For Matthew Gregory’s LTIP A award this reflects a share price vesting on 
28 February 2014 of £8.45 compared to an estimated value of £7 .90 used in last year’s report
6
 Exercise of a five-year savings contract in the Company’s Sharesave Scheme. The valuation is the difference between the exercise price and the  
option price on the date which they become exercisable
Outside appointments (unaudited)
Colin Day is a non-executive director of AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, FM Global and WPP Group plc, and received fees of £282,000 in 
respect of these directorships for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Pension schemes (audited)
Colin Day received a supplementary payment equal to 25% of basic salary to permit him to secure pension benefits, and is separately 
provided with life assurance cover with a benefit of four times basic salary.
Matthew Gregory received a supplementary payment equal to 20% of his basic salary to permit him to secure pension benefits. 
Matthew contributes 5% of his basic salary up to the scheme specific cap which the Company matches. The Company match is 
deducted from his supplementary payment. Matthew is a member of the Essentra Pension Plan – Defined Contribution section  
(“the DC plan”). The DC plan provides a death in service benefit of four times basic salary.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
76
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual bonus (audited)
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the performance measures for the Executive Directors were based upon balanced growth, 
working capital and personal objectives. Balanced growth combines revenue and operating profit performance measured via a 
balanced scorecard. There is no payout under the balanced growth measure if either operating profit growth or revenue growth  
fails to achieve a base level of performance.
Performance 
measure
Proportion of bonus 
determined by measure Base performance
Target 
performance
Stretch 
performance
Actual 
performance
% of maximum 
bonus payable
Balanced 
growth 80% Operating profit 10% growth 15.5% growth 18.5% growth 16.1% growth 
40.0%
Revenue 5% growth 15.5% growth 17 .5% growth 14.2% growth 
10% of bonus 
payable
40% of bonus 
payable
80% of bonus 
payable
Working 
capital
10% Based on the working capital ratio at the year-end Maximum target 
achieved
10%
Personal 
objectives
10% –  Chief Executive: measures relating to the development of strategy, integration 
or acquisitions and the delivery of a new organisational structure
–  Group Finance Director: measures relating to cash performance, operation of 
the finance function and implementation of financial assessment processes
See footnote 2 10%
10%
TOTAL 60.0%  
Chief Executive
60.0%  
Group Finance 
Director
1
 The targets relating to the working capital measure are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Board
2
 Following the year-end, the Remuneration Committee assessed performance against the personal objectives for each Director  
For both Directors, the Remuneration Committee determined that the objectives had been fully satisfied and that the maximum portion of their 
bonus subject to these objectives should be paid. The targets relating to the personal objectives are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Board
Total bonuses awarded in respect of performance for the year ended 31 December 2014 were therefore:
Name of Director
Cash bonus
£000
Deferred share bonus award
£000
Total bonus
£000
Colin Day 279 278 557
90.1% of salary out of 150.0%
Matthew Gregory 113 112 225
75.0% of salary out of 125.0% 
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of bonus payable is reflective of the corporate and individual performance 
during the year. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
77
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Equity incentives (audited)
Details of the awards granted and outstanding during the year to the Executive Directors under the LTIP Part B and DASB are as follows:
Date of grant
At 1 Jan  
2014
Awarded  
in year
Transferred  
in year
At 31 Dec  
2014
Share price at 
date of award
Earliest  
vesting date Expiry date
Colin Day
LTIP Part B 20 April 2011 259,842 – – 259,842 317.50p 20 April 2014
1
19 April 2017
LTIP Part B 26 August 2011 80,929 – – 80,929 339.80p 26 February
 2015
1
25 August 2017
LTIP Part B 27 April 2012 359,840 – – 359,840 400.70p 27 April 2015 26 April 2018
LTIP Part B 21 March 2013 260,115 – – 260,115 692.00p 21 March 2016 20 March 2019
LTIP Part B 24 February 2014 – 211,643 211,643 876.00p 24 February  
2017
23 February 2020
DASB 24 February 2012 57,688 – – 57,688 446.90p 1 March 2015 1 March 2015
DASB 21 March 2013 61,100 – – 61,100 692.00p 1 March 2016 1 March 2016
DASB 24 February 2014 – 51,369 – 51,369 876.00p 1 March 2017 1 March 2017
Matthew Gregory
LTIP Part B 26 August 2011 16,553 – – 16,553 339.80p 26 February
2015
1
25 August 2017
LTIP Part B 27 April 2012 67,021 – – 67,021 400.70p 27 April 2015 26 April 2018
LTIP Part B 21 March 2013 80,924 – – 80,924 692.00p 21 March 2016 20 March 2019
LTIP Part B 24 February 2014 – 68,493 – 68,493 876.00p 24 February 2017 23 February 2020
DASB 28 February 2011 10,143 – 10,143 – 299.10p 1 March 2014 1 March 2014
DASB 24 February 2012 13,425 – – 13,425 446.90p 1 March 2015 1 March 2015
DASB 21 March 2013 13,450 – – 13,450 692.00p 1 March 2016 1 March 2016
DASB 24 February 2014 – 19,977 – 19,977 876.00p 1 March 2017 1 March 2017
1
 Subject to the announcement of the Company’s financial results for the previous year.
A total of 1,023,158 (2013: 1,191,953) share incentive awards under the LTIP Part B and the DASB were granted during the year ended  
31 December 2014 to Executive Directors and other senior executives, including members of the GLT.
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 December 2014 was 732p. The middle market price of an ordinary 
share in the Company during the year ranged from 647p to 915p.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
78
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION All LTIP B awards are subject half to a relative TSR performance condition and half to an adjusted EPS performance condition.
All relative TSR performance conditions are measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index at the beginning  
of the performance period, over a three-year performance period from the date of grant. 12.5% of total awards will vest for a median 
performance, rising on a straight-line basis to 50% of total awards vesting for upper quartile performance.
For awards granted before 2012, the adjusted EPS performance targets for 12.5% of total awards vesting were RPI +3% pa, rising on  
a straight-line basis to 50% of total awards vesting for RPI +8% pa. For April 2012 awards, the EPS targets are 13% pa to 20% pa.  
For March 2013 awards, the targets are 8% pa to 15% pa and for February 2014 awards, the targets are 8.5% pa to 13.5% pa. 
The table below sets out the potential vesting for these awards based on Essentra’s TSR performance as at 31 December 2014.  
The actual level of vesting of these awards will depend on the Company’s performance as at the end of the relevant performance 
period for each award and therefore may differ from that set out below. 
Grant date Vesting date TSR performance Indicative vesting
August 2011 February 2015 Upper quartile 100%
1
April 2012 April 2015 Between the medium  
and upper quartile
85%
2
March 2013 March 2016 Between median quartile  
and upper quartile
51%
February 2014 February 2017 n/a n/a
LTIP awards included in the Total Single Remuneration Table (unaudited)
The LTIP B awards granted in August 2011 vested in August 2014, and were subject to relative TSR and adjusted EPS growth measures which 
ended (or were substantially complete) on 31 December 2014. The performance conditions and actual performance are summarised below:
Measure Condition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
Relative TSR TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE 
250 (excluding investment 
trusts) index over the three 
years from date of grant
Median rank for  
12.5% of award
Upper quartile rank  
for 50% of award
TSR 135% Rank 18 out  
of 191 companies
1
100%
EPS Annualised adjusted  
EPS growth
RPI + 3% pa for  
12.5% of award
RPI + 8% pa for  
50% of award
22.1% pa 100%
The LTIP B awards granted in April 2012 will vest in April 2015, and are subject to relative TSR and adjusted EPS growth measures which ended 
(or were substantially complete) on 31 December 2014. The performance conditions and actual performance are summarised below:
Measure Condition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
Relative TSR TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE 
250 (excluding investment 
trusts) index over the three 
years from date of grant
Median rank for  
12.5% of award
Upper quartile  
rank for 50% 
of award
 
TSR 81.43%  
Rank 67 out of  
190 companies
2
69.3%
EPS Annualised adjusted EPS 
growth
3% pa for  
12.5% of award
20% pa for  
50% of award
22.1% pa 100%
1
  For TSR this is based on estimated performance to 31 December 2014 (final averaging period will be calculated over the two months to February 2015)
2
 For TSR this is based on estimated performance to 31 December 2014 (final averaging period will be calculated over the four months to April 2015)
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
79
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of vesting is a fair reflection of the performance of the business over the 
three-year performance period. The LTIP B awards which will vest to the Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2015 
are summarised in the table below:
Executive Number of awards granted Vesting Number of shares
Total
£000
Colin Day  
(August 2011 award)
80,929 100% 80,929 £593,695
Colin Day  
(April 2012 award)
359,840 84.6%  
(estimate)
304,424 £2,233,259
Total £2,826,954
Matthew Gregory 
(August 2011 award)
16,553 100%  16,553 £121,432
Matthew Gregory 
(April 2012 award)
67,021 84.6% 
(estimate)
56,699 £415,949
Total £537 ,381
2
  The indicative value shown has been included in the total single figure for remuneration table based on the three month average share price to  
31 December 2014 of 733.6p
Long-term incentive awards granted during the year
On 24 February 2014, the following LTIP B awards were made to Executive Directors:
Executive
Type of
award
Number of  
awards granted
Basis of
award
Share price  
on grant* Face value*
Percentage 
which vests at 
threshold
Colin Day Performance share 211,643 300% of salary 876.00p £1,854,000 25%
Matthew Gregory Performance share 68,493 200% of salary 876.00p £600,000 25%
* Face value is based on the mid-market closing share price on the day prior to the date of grant
Awards are subject to performance conditions which are 50% dependent on relative TSR performance targets measured against the  
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index with a median to upper quartile ranking vesting schedule, and 50% dependent on adjusted 
EPS growth performance targets of 8.5% pa to 15.5% pa. Performance is measured over three years (to 31 December 2016 for the EPS 
Element of the awards and 23 February 2017 for the TSR element of the awards) .
Save As You Earn scheme (audited)
In addition to the LTIP B, the Company operates a Save As You Earn share option scheme (“SAYE”). 
Colin Day joined the SAYE in 2012, contributing the statutory maximum monthly amount of £250. Matthew Gregory joined the current 
SAYE invitation in 2013, contributing the statutory maximum monthly amount of £250. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
80
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Details of the awards granted and outstanding under the LTIP Part A and the SAYE are as follows:
Date of grant
At 1 Jan  
2014
Granted in 
year
Exercised in 
year
At 31 Dec 
2014 Exercise price
Share price at 
date of 
exercise
Earliest  
vesting date Expiry date
Colin Day
SAYE 1 May 2012 2,540 – – 2,540 354.24p – 1 May 2015 31 October 
2015
Matthew Gregory
LTIP Part A 8 September 
2006
12,953 – 12,953¹ – 254.75p £8.81 8 September 
2009
7 September 
2016
31 August 2007 29,288 – 29,288
2
– 239.00p £8.81 31 August 2010 30 August 2017
1 September 
2008
49,792 – 49,792
3
– 180.75p £7.82 1 September 
2011
31 August 2018
28 September 
2009
54,933 – 54,933
4
– 169.50p £7.82 21 February 
2013
27 September 
2019
31 August 2010 59,096 – 59,096
5
– 236.90p £7.82 28 February 
2014
30 August 2020
SAYE 1 May 2013 3,030 – – 3,030 495.00p – 1 May 2018 31 October 
2018
1
 After funding the cost of this unapproved option 4,744 shares were retained
2
 After funding the cost of this unapproved option 11,173 shares were retained
3
 After funding the cost of this unapproved option 9,173 shares were retained and 10,186 shares were sold
4
 After funding the cost of this unapproved option 11,653 shares were retained and 11,147 shares were sold
5
 After funding the cost of this unapproved option 10,819 shares were retained and 11,009 shares were sold
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
81
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
The beneficial interests of the current Directors in office at 31 December 2014, and the date of this Report, in the issued ordinary  
share capital of the Company were as follows: 
Beneficially owned
% of salary  
held under 
shareholding 
guideline LTIP B awards LTIP A awards DASB SAYE Total
31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Unvested 31 Dec 2014
Executive Directors
Colin Day 259,684 265,851¹ 579% 912,527 259,842 – – 170,157 2,540 1,610,917
Matthew Gregory 25,316 79,501 308% 232,991 – – – 46,852 3,030 362,374
Non-Executive 
Directors
Jeff Harris 59,651 59,651 59,651
Paul Drechsler 18,519 18,519 18,519
Peter Hill 10,000 10,000 10,000
Lorraine Trainer 7,500 7,562 7,562
Terry Twigger 7,500 7,500 7,500
1
 Salary used is the prevailing annual salary as at 31 December 2014
2
 An additional 52,642 shares are also held by Colin Day’s family members
The current shareholding guideline requires Colin Day to build up a shareholding worth 300% of salary and Matthew Gregory to build 
up a shareholdering worth 200% of salary. Both of the Executive Directors were compliant as at 31 December 2014.
 
The Executive Directors are regarded as being interested in 3,379,383 (2013: 2,484,586) ordinary shares in Essentra plc currently held  
by the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as they are, together with other Essentra employees, potential beneficiaries of the EBT. 
These shares are held in order to satisfy employee entitlements relating to the Company’s share plans. 
As at 31 December 2014, potential and actual share issuance through employee related share plans totalled 2.85%, which is well  
below UK institutional shareholder limits of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
82
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Performance graph (unaudited)
The graph below represents the comparative TSR performance of the Company versus the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) 
index for the last six years. This index has been selected as it is considered the most appropriate published general index in which  
the Company is a constituent.
31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13 31/12/14
Essentra plc FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index
0
40
80
120
160
200
240
280
320
360
400
440
480
520
560
600
640
680
720
760
800
Six-year Chief Executive table (unaudited)
Mark Harper Colin Day
2009 2010 1 Jan –
14 April 2011
April –
31 Dec 2011
2012 2013 2014
Total remuneration 
(£000)
1,038 2,932 1,715 1,046 1,570 3,824 4,184
Annual bonus (%) 20% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 60.0%
LTIP vesting (%) 73% 100% 100% n/a n/a 100% 87.5%
1
1
 August 2011 award vested at 100% and April 2012 award is anticipated to vest at 84.6%
Mark Harper retired on 14 April 2011 and Colin Day was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2011.
The annual bonus and LTIP figures show the payout as a percentage of the maximum. Annual bonuses for 2011 were pro rated for 
both executives to reflect time served. Mark Harper’s LTIP B award vested on the normal date, pro-rated for time and performance.
The value of Sharesave awards has been included in the total remuneration figure on the date they became exercisable.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer (unaudited)
2014 
£000
2013 
£000 % change
% change  
UK GMC
– Salary 618 600 3% 4%
– Benefits 27 19 42% –
– Bonus 557 900 (38)% (38)%
The table above shows the percentage movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive and members of 
the UK GMC between the current and previous financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
83
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION UK senior executives have been chosen as the most appropriate comparator group as they represent those employees eligible to 
participate in the same reward plans as the Chief Executive. Group-wide figures can be distorted by different reward practices in 
different geographies and movements in the number of employees.
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited)
(£m) 2014 2013 % change
Staff costs¹ 194.5 179.7 8.2
Distributions to shareholders 38.1 31.2 22.1
Revenue 865.7 798.1 8.5
Adjusted operating profit 142.5 130.4 9.3
1
 Staff costs are as per note 6 on page 117 .
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2015 (unaudited)
Salary
Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, 
performance and experience of the individual. 
As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Letter, in order to appropriately align the remuneration policy with Drive  
for 2020, it is the intention to set Executive Directors all elements of pay, including salaries for the three year period 2015-2017 at the 
pre-determined levels set out in the new Remuneration Policy Report (subject to approval of the new Remuneration Policy Report  
by shareholders at the AGM). For reference, the intended salaries for 2015 under this new policy are set out below.
(£m) Colin Day Matthew Gregory
Annual salary effective from 1 January 2015 £675,000
1
£340,000
2
Annual salary effective from 1 January 2014 £618,000 £300,000
1 
This salary is fixed until 1 January 2018
2
 As highlighted in previous Remuneration Reports, Matthew Gregory was brought onto the Board at a salary level that was set deliberately well below 
the market rate for an established finance director with the intention that, subject to strong progression in role, the Remuneration Committee would 
implement a series of phased salary increases to bring his salary to a more appropriate level. The Board has been pleased by the development of 
Matthew Gregory as Finance Director and these proposed increases, if implemented in full (which will be subject to continued strong performance), 
will bring his salary to a more appropriate level by 2017
Benefits
Executive Directors will be provided with the following benefits:
 > Car, fuel and / or car allowance
 > Private medical insurance with family level cover
 > Life insurance cover of four times basic salary
Pension
Colin Day will receive a supplementary payment equal to 25% of annual salary to permit him to secure pension benefits. 
Matthew Gregory will receive a defined contribution and / or supplementary payment of 20% of his basic salary to permit him  
to secure pension benefits. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
84
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual bonuses
Each year, the Remuneration Committee reviews the annual bonus, to ensure the performance measures and targets remain 
appropriate and aligned to the Company’s short-term strategy, while remaining within the appropriate risk profile.
Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2015, Colin Day is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 150%  
of basic salary. Matthew Gregory is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 125% of basic salary. Bonus payments are 
normally made one half in cash and one half in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being deferred for three years, 
in accordance with the rules of the DASB.
For the year-ended 31 December 2015, the performance criteria will be as follows:
Performance criteria Weighting (%)
Balanced growth (revenue 
and operating profit) 80
Working capital 10
Personal objectives 10
The Remuneration Committee believes that revenue, profit and working capital targets are commercially sensitive, although targets 
will be set so as to provide alignment with the goals of Drive for 2020. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee will not disclose the 
targets on a prospective basis. The targets and actual performance against them will be disclosed on a retrospective basis where possible. 
In addition to the financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has also set the personal performance measures for Colin Day 
and Matthew Gregory, which are designed to deliver further progress by the Company towards the strategic objectives associated 
with its Drive for 2020 strategy.
The objectives set do not have a specific weighting applied to them but are considered as a whole by the Remuneration Committee.
From 2015, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion, within a three-year period after the determination of the bonus, to withhold 
or recover annual cash bonuses or DASB awards (via malus and clawback provisions) in specified circumstances. These circumstances will 
encompass if the original bonus was paid to a greater extent than it should have done due to a material misstatement in the Company’s 
financial statements or due to an error in assessing the applicable performance conditions or if there has been serious misconduct by an 
individual or if there has been serious reputational damage to the Company or a relevant business unit.
Essentra Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 (“LTIP 2015”)
The existing long-term incentive plan (“LTIP B”) expires in 2015. Shareholder approval will therefore be sought at the 2015 AGM for a 
new LTIP (“LTIP 2015”). Full terms of LTIP 2015 are summarised in the Notice of Meeting for the AGM, and key details of LTIP 2015 in so 
far as they affect the Executive Directors are outlined below.
An award granted under LTIP 2015 will consist of a conditional right to receive shares in the Company, subject to satisfaction of 
performance conditions. The LTIP 2015 will usually permit annual awards over shares worth, at grant, 300% of salary. However, as 
outlined in the Remuneration Policy Report, the Remuneration Committee proposes to fix the size of grants to the current Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director for the three-year period of the Policy (subject to shareholder approval of the Remuneration 
Policy Report). Awards under the Policy in 2015 will be as set out below:
 > Colin Day will receive an award over shares worth, at grant, 300% of his 2015-2017 annual salary (£675,000)
 > Matthew Gregory will receive an award over shares worth, at grant, 200% of his approximate average 2015-2017 salary (£370,000) 
A share award under LTIP 2015 will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its award and may only be exercised  
to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied. The awards are structured as nil cost options. For 
employees based outside the US, the options remain capable of being exercised up to the sixth anniversary of grant. For employees 
based in the US, once the performance conditions have been satisfied the options must be exercised within 30 days of vesting.
For awards to be granted to the Executive Directors in 2015, one half of the awards will be subject to a TSR performance condition and 
one half of the awards will be subject to an adjusted EPS performance condition. The Remuneration Committee believes that these 
conditions provide appropriate alignment with the strategic priorities outlined in Drive for 2020. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
85
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The TSR performance condition assesses Essentra’s TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts) index. Performance is measured over three years from the time of grant. 12.5% of the total award vests for median 
performance, increasing on a straight line basis to 50% of the total award vesting for upper quartile performance or above.
The adjusted EPS performance condition for these awards requires the Company’s EPS growth (adjusted to exclude items which did 
not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance and intangible amortisation) over three financial years to be in excess of 
8% per annum for 12.5% of the total awards to vest. The proportion of the awards vesting will increase on a straight line basis, and for 
50% of the total awards to vest the adjusted EPS growth must be in excess of 15% per annum. The 15% per annum upper target is 
consistent with the aspiration of Drive for 2020, namely to double the size of the Company by 2020.
It is the current intention of the Remuneration Committee that awards in 2016 and 2017 will also be subject to a combination of TSR and 
EPS performance measures, and that the EPS targets for 2016 and 2017 awards will remain broadly the same as the targets for the 2015 
award. If any changes are required to measures or targets for future awards, we would consult in advance with our major shareholders. 
Awards granted under the LTIP 2015 will be subject to malus and clawback provisions for a period of up to three years following the 
vesting date of the award. Potential circumstances in which the malus and clawback provisions may be applied are consistent with 
those applying to annual bonus awards as described above. 
The fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee, while fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole.
Non-Executive Director fees
Supplementary fee
Chairman
Non-Executive 
Director
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Additional fee for  
chairing a Committee
Annual fee effective  
from 1 January 2015
£200,000 £52,000 £7 ,000 £11,000
Annual fee effective  
from 1 January 2014
£190,000 £50,000 £5,300 £10,560
Statement of shareholder voting
The results of shareholder voting in relation to the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM were as follows:
  Annual Report on Remuneration  Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
No. of votes % No. of votes %
Votes cast in favour 184,299,986 97.90 188,335,089 96.74
Votes cast against 3,957,492 2.10 6,350,702 3.26
Total votes cast 188,257,478 194,685,791
Abstentions 6,674,539 – 246,226 –
This Report of the Remuneration Committee, including both the Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration, 
has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board
LORRAINE TRAINER
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
86
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Directors present their Report 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 which requires  
the Company to provide a fair review  
of the business of the Group during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2014, 
and audited financial statements of 
the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings for the year ended  
31 December 2014.
The Company’s Registered Office  
is Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury 
Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 1AU.
Results and dividends
The profit on ordinary activities after 
taxation of the Group for the year  
ended 31 December 2014 was £71.8m  
(2013: £60.3m).
As at 20 February 2015 the Company  
has paid the following dividend in respect 
of the year ended 31 December 2014:
Per share  
p
Total  
£m
Interim dividend  
paid 30 October 2014
5.7 13.3
The Directors recommend that a final 
dividend of 12.6p (2013: 10.6p) per share be 
paid, making a total dividend distribution 
for the year of 18.3p (2013: 15.4p).
The final dividend, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM, will be paid on  
1 May 2015 to shareholders on the register 
on 27 March 2015.
Directors 
As at 31 December 2014, the Board  
of Directors comprised:
Jeff Harris Non-Executive 
Chairman
Colin Day Chief Executive
Terry Twigger SI Non-Executive 
Director
Matthew Gregory Group Finance 
Director
Peter Hill Non-Executive 
Director
Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive 
Chairman
Paul Drechsler Non-Executive 
Director
The Company is adopting the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
September 2012 in relation to Directors’ 
appointments, and in particular the annual 
re-election of all Directors. Therefore, in 
accordance with provision B.7 .1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all the 
Directors will retire at the AGM – save  
for Paul Drechsler – and being eligible  
will offer themselves up for re-election.
Paul Drechsler will not be standing for 
re-election after nearly 10 years serving  
on the Board.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have 
service contracts.
In accordance with the Company’s Conflict 
of Interests policy, Directors are required  
to review their potential conflict of interests 
at least on an annual basis and to notify 
any changes to the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel as soon as possible. 
The current register was approved by the 
Board in October 2014 and no material 
conflicts of interest were identified during 
the year. 
At no time during the year has any Director 
had any material interest in a contract 
with the Group, being a contract of 
significance in relation to the Group’s 
business. A statement of Directors’ 
interests in shares of the Company is  
on page 82.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company is 
shown in note 19 to the financial statements 
on page 130.
In November 2014 the Company conducted 
an equity placing of 23,659 ,761 new ordinary 
shares of 25p each at a price of 713.5p  
per share, raising gross proceeds of 
approximately £168.8m which funded  
the acquisition of Clondalkin Specialist 
Packaging Division. 
The rights and obligations attaching to  
the Company’s ordinary shares, and the 
provisions governing the appointment and 
replacement of, as well as the powers of, 
the Company’s Directors, are set out in  
the Company’s Articles of Association,  
copies of which can be obtained from 
Companies House in the UK or by writing 
to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting 
rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares or on the transfer of securities in the 
Company, except, in the case of transfers 
of securities:
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
87
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION  > That certain restrictions may from 
time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, insider 
trading laws)
 > Whereby, pursuant to the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority, certain employees of  
the Company require approval  
of the Company to deal in the 
Company’s ordinary shares
No persons hold securities in the 
Company carrying special rights with 
regard to control of the Company. The 
Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary 
in the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Articles of 
Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Substantial shareholders
At the close of business on 19 February 
2015, the Company was advised of the 
following voting rights attaching to the 
Company’s shares in accordance with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
% of total voting rights
BlackRock Inc 13.78
Standard Life 
Investments 
(Holdings) Limited
6.03
Employees
As at 31 December 2014 the Company 
employed 6,388 people globally and 1,341 
people in the UK. Information on the 
Group’s policies on employee recruitment, 
engagement and the employment of 
disabled persons can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility Statement on 
pages 40 to 41.
Political contributions
In line with Group policy the Company 
made no political contributions (2013: £nil) .
Environmental
The disclosures concerning greenhouse 
gas emissions required by law are included 
in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 43.
Directors’ indemnities
During the year, and as at the date of  
this Report, indemnities are in force  
under which the Company has agreed to 
indemnify the Directors and the Company 
Secretary & General Counsel, in addition 
to other senior executives who are 
Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, 
to the extent permitted by law and the 
Company’s Articles of Association, in 
respect of all losses arising out of or in 
connection with the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities as a 
Director or Officer of the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries, including the pension 
scheme trustee companies. The scope  
of the indemnities extends to include 
liabilities to third parties.
Significant agreements
The Company has committed bank 
facilities consisting of two five-year 
multi-currency revolving credit facilities of 
£262.0m and €160.0m. Under the terms of 
these facilities, the banks can give notice 
to Essentra to repay outstanding amounts 
and cancel the commitments where there 
is a change of control of the Company.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 
29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior 
notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m 
senior notes due 29 April 2020, on a 
change of control the Company must 
make an offer to prepay all the notes at 
par, without any premium of any kind, 
together with accrued and unpaid 
interest thereon.
All of the Company’s share schemes 
contain provisions relating to a change in 
control. Outstanding options and awards 
normally vest and become exercisable  
on a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance 
conditions at that time.
There are a number of other agreements, 
involving the Company or its subsidiaries, 
that take effect, alter or terminate upon  
a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid, such as 
commercial contracts and joint venture 
agreements. None are considered to be 
significant in terms of their potential 
impact on the business of the Group as  
a whole, to any potential bidder for the 
Company or Group.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at 
the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate 
West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, 
MK9 2HQ on Tuesday 23 April 2015 at  
12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of  
the AGM, resolutions in respect of the 
following matters of special business  
are included in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting:
New Long-Term Incentive Plan
Resolution 13 will be proposed as an 
ordinary resolution to request that 
shareholders approve a new long-term 
incentive arrangement, the Essentra 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 (the “LTIP 
2015”). The LTIP 2015 has been based on 
and designed to replace the Essentra 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “Expired 
LTIP”) that will be closed to further awards 
in May of this year upon the expiry of its 
10-year life. 
As per the Expired LTIP , Part A of the LTIP 
2015 will provide flexibility for the grant of 
market value share option awards, and 
Part B of the LTIP 2015 flexibility for the 
grant of performance share awards.
In each case, awards under the LTIP 2015 
ordinarily vest three years from grant, 
subject to the grantee’s continued service 
and the extent to which performance 
conditions are met over the relevant 
three-year measurement period. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
88
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Company’s Executive Directors shall be 
ineligible for participation in Part A of the 
LTIP 2015. 
Full details of the existing and proposed 
remuneration packages in place for the 
Executive Directors can be found in the 
Report of the Remuneration Committee 
set out on pages 66 to 86.
Authority to allot unissued shares
At the last AGM held in 2014, the Directors 
were granted authority to allot relevant 
securities up to a nominal amount of 
£19,643,829, which expires at the end  
of the forthcoming AGM. 
At this year’s AGM, shareholders will be 
asked to grant the Directors’ authority  
to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe 
for or convert any security into shares:  
(i) up to an aggregate nominal amount  
of £21,725,697 , representing approximately 
one-third of the Company’s issued share 
capital, excluding treasury shares, at 20 
February 2015 (such an amount to be 
reduced by the nominal amount allotted  
or granted under section (ii) below in 
excess of such sum); and (ii) comprising 
equity securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £43,451,395, 
representing approximately two-thirds  
of the issued share capital, excluding 
treasury shares, at 20 February 2015  
(such an amount to be reduced by any 
allotments or grants made under section 
(i) above) in connection with an offer by 
way of a rights issue. 
The proposal conforms to the guidelines 
issued by the institutional investment 
protection bodies to ensure that existing 
shareholders’ interests are safeguarded. 
The Directors have no present intention  
of exercising either of these authorities, 
which will expire at the end of next year’s 
AGM (or, if earlier, the close of business  
on 22 June 2016) except in relation to  
share options.
Allotment of shares for cash
At the last AGM held in 2014, shareholders 
approved a special resolution to enable the 
Directors to allot shares for cash without 
first offering them to existing shareholders 
in proportion to their existing shareholdings. 
That approval expires at the end of the 
forthcoming AGM and resolution 15 in the 
Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the Directors  
to allot or sell shares for cash without  
first offering them to existing shareholders 
in proportion to their existing shareholdings, 
up to an aggregate nominal amount  
of 5% of the issued share capital of the 
Company, including treasury shares, at  
31 December 2014 (equivalent to 13,206,458 
ordinary shares) .
In respect of this aggregate nominal 
amount, the Directors confirm their 
intention to follow the provisions of the 
Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of 
Principles regarding cumulative usage  
of authorities within a rolling three-year 
period where the Principles provide  
that usage in excess of 7 .5% should not 
take place without prior consultation  
with shareholders. 
This authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 22 
June 2016. The proposal conforms to the 
guidelines issued by the institutional 
investment protection bodies to ensure 
that existing shareholders’ interests are 
safeguarded. 
Purchase of own shares
At the last AGM held in 2014, shareholders 
approved a special resolution to enable the 
Company to purchase its own shares. That 
approval expires at the end of the 
forthcoming AGM. 
At this year’s AGM, the Directors consider it 
expedient to seek shareholders’ approval to 
enable the Company to purchase, in the 
market, up to 10% of its issued share capital 
(excluding any treasury shares) for 
cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, such 
power to apply until the end of next year’s 
AGM (or if earlier, 22 June 2016) . In 
accordance with the requirements of the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, the minimum price (exclusive of 
expenses) which may be paid for a share is 
its nominal value and the maximum price 
(exclusive of expenses) for shares which may 
be paid is the highest of: (i) an amount 
equal to 105% of the average market value 
for a share for the five business days 
immediately preceding the date of the 
purchase; and (ii) the higher of the price of 
the last independent trade and the highest 
current independent bid on the trading 
venues where the purchase is carried out. 
The Directors have no present intention  
of exercising the authority to make market 
purchases, however the authority provides 
the flexibility to allow them to do so in the 
future. The Directors will only utilise this 
authority if satisfied that to do so would 
be in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders generally, and could 
be expected to result in an increase in 
earnings per share of the Company. 
During the financial year ending 31 
December 2014 1,855,216 ordinary shares 
were transferred out of Treasury by the 
Company to satisfy share options under 
the Company’s SAYE / Sharesave and 
executive share incentive plans.
No dividends have been paid on shares 
while held in Treasury and no voting  
rights attach to the treasury shares.
Alteration of the Company’s  
Articles of Association 
Resolution 18 will be proposed as a  
Special Resolution and will be to request 
that shareholders approve that the 
Company’s Articles of Association be 
amended to allow the Directors the 
flexibility to pay future dividends by  
any payment combination.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
89
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Auditor
The Auditor, KPMG LLP , is willing to 
continue in office. Separate resolutions  
will be put to the AGM to re-appoint the 
Auditor, and to authorise the Board to 
agree their remuneration.
Recommendation
The Directors believe that the resolutions in 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in 
the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders as a whole, and unanimously 
recommend that shareholders vote in 
favour of each resolution.
Content included in the Strategic Report
The following content is included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47; an 
indication of the likely future developments 
in the business of the Company; an 
indication of the activities of the Company 
in the field of research and development; 
and disclosure on the Company’s policy as 
regards employment of disabled persons 
and employee involvement.
Derivatives
Information related to derivatives is 
included in the Accounting Policies on 
page 99 and in note 15.
Going concern statement
The Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future and accordingly have adopted  
the going concern basis in preparing  
the consolidated financial statements. 
Further information regarding the  
financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position, and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial 
Review on pages 16 to 17 . In addition,  
note 1 to the financial statements on  
pages 105 to 111 includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and hedging 
activities and exposures to credit,  
market and liquidity risk. Cash balances 
and borrowings are included in note 21  
on page 131. This disclosure has been 
prepared in accordance the with Financial 
Reporting Council’s Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: “Guide for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009.”
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to the external auditor
As required by section 418(2) of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Directors who 
were members of the Board at the time  
of approving this Report, having made 
enquiries of fellow Directors and of the 
external auditor, confirm that:
 > As far as each Director is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s external auditor 
is unaware
 > Each Director has taken all steps that 
he ought to have taken as a director to 
ascertain any relevant audit 
information and to ensure that the 
Company’s external auditor is aware 
of that information
The Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, 
including the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee, were approved by the Board 
on 20 February 2015. 
By order of the Board
JON GREEN
Company Secretary 
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
90
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In respect of the Annual Report  
and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Directors’ Report and the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
 
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law, they  
have elected to prepare the financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law.
 
Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the profit or loss  
of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, 
the directors are required to: 
 > Select suitable accounting policies  
and then apply them consistently
 > Make judgements and estimates  
that are reasonable and prudent
 > State whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs  
as adopted by the EU
 > Prepare financial statements on  
a going concern basis, unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for  
keeping adequate accounting records  
that are sufficient to show and explain  
the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company, and 
enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
Engaging professional accountants to 
compile the financial statements cannot 
be regarded as providing assurance on  
the adequacy of the Company’s systems or 
on the incidence of fraud, non-compliance 
with laws and regulations or weaknesses  
in internal controls, and does not relieve 
the Directors of their responsibilities in  
this respect.
COLIN DAY
Chief Executive 
MATTHEW GREGORY
Group Finance Director
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
91
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES For the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revenue 2 865.7 798.1
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 142.5 130.4
Intangible amortisation 3 (17.5) (14.2)
Exceptional operating items 3 (16.2) (19.2)
Operating profit 2 108.8 97.0
Finance income 4 1.4 1.0
Finance expense 4 (10.5) (11.6)
Profit before tax 99.7 86.4
Income tax expense 5 (27.9) (26.1)
Profit for the year 71.8 60.3
Attributable to:
Equity holders of Essentra plc 71.0 60.1
Non-controlling interests 0.8 0.2
Profit for the year 71.8 60.3
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc:
Basic 7 30.0p 26.3p
Diluted 7 29.4p 25.7p
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
PAGE HEADING
92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit for the year 71.8 60.3
Other comprehensive income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 18 (15.8) 11.2
Deferred tax credit / (charge) on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 5,16 5.0 (3.1)
(10.8) 8.1
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges:
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 0.1 0.1
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 3.4 (0.1)
Foreign exchange translation differences:
Attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc:
Arising on translation of foreign operations 3.4 (14.7)
Arising on effective net investment hedges (2.3) 0.2
Income tax credit on effective net investment hedges 5 0.5 –
Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.3 (0.5)
5.4 (15.0)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (5.4) (6.9)
Total comprehensive income 66.4 53.4
Attributable to:
Equity holders of Essentra plc 65.3 53.7
Non-controlling interests 1.1 (0.3)
Total comprehensive income 66.4 53.4
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME At 31 December 2014 
Note
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 230.5 213.7
Intangible assets 9 406.4 396.7
Long-term receivables 3.1 –
Deferred tax assets 16 11.8 6.4
Retirement benefit assets 18 20.1 21.9
Total non-current assets 671.9 638.7
Inventories 10 84.8 75.5
Income tax receivable 8.9 4.0
Trade and other receivables 1,11 165.4 140.7
Derivative assets 1,15 3.9 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 1,12 46.0 44.1
Total current assets 309.0 264.5
Total assets 980.9 903.2
Equity
Issued share capital 19 66.0 60.1
Merger relief reserve 19 298.1 136.4
Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1
Other reserve 20 (132.8) (132.8)
Cash flow hedging reserve 3.4 (0.1)
Translation reserve (8.5) (9.9)
Retained earnings 20 366.5 345.0
Attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc 592.8 398.8
Non-controlling interests 5.0 4.2
Total equity 597.8 403.0
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,14 104.2 254.7
Retirement benefit obligations 18 21.8 11.3
Provisions 17 3.4 3.1
Other financial liabilities 1 3.5 5.4
Deferred tax liabilities 16 54.7 47.1
Total non-current liabilities 187.6 321.6
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,14 5.8 6.5
Derivative liabilities 1,15 0.1 0.3
Income tax payable 28.6 24.4
Trade and other payables 1,13 156.8 135.1
Provisions 17 4.2 12.3
Total current liabilities 195.5 178.6
Total liabilities 383.1 500.2
Total equity and liabilities 980.9 903.2
The consolidated financial statements on pages 92 to 135 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2015 and were 
signed on its behalf by:
Colin Day   Matthew Gregory
Chief Executive   Group Finance Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET For the year ended 31 December 2014
2014
Issued 
capital
£m
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 60.1 136.4 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) (9.9) 345.0 4.2 403.0
Profit for the year 71.0 0.8 71.8
Other comprehensive income 3.5 1.6 (10.8) 0.3 (5.4)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – 3.5 1.6 60.2 1.1 66.4
Issue of shares 5.9 161.7 167.6
Changes in non-controlling 
interests in subsidiaries (0.1) (0.1)
Transfer to loss on disposal of 
subsidiary (0.2) (0.2)
Purchase of employee trust shares (12.3) (12.3)
Share options exercised 4.3 4.3
Share option expense 6.8 6.8
Tax relating to share-based 
incentives 0.6 0.6
Dividends paid (38.1) (0.2) (38.3)
At 31 December 2014 66.0 298.1 0.1 (132.8) 3.4 (8.5) 366.5 5.0 597.8
2013
Issued 
capital
£m
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 54.8 – 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) 4.6 311.8 5.3 243.7
Profit for the year 60.1 0.2 60.3
Other comprehensive income – (14.5) 8.1 (0.5) (6.9)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – – (14.5) 68.2 (0.3) 53.4
Issue of shares 5.3 136.4 141.7
Issue of shares to non-controlling 
interests 1.5 1.5
Acquisition of non-controlling 
interests (0.6) (1.3) (1.9)
Purchase of employee trust shares (16.3) (16.3)
Share options exercised 4.7 4.7
Share option expense 5.1 5.1
Tax relating to share-based 
incentives 3.3 3.3
Dividends paid (31.2) (1.0) (32.2)
At 31 December 2013 60.1 136.4 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) (9.9) 345.0 4.2 403.0
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Operating activities
Profit for the year 71.8 60.3
Adjustments for:
Income tax expense 27.9 26.1
Net finance expense 4 9.1 10.6
Intangible amortisation 3,9 17.5 14.2
Exceptional operating items 3 16.2 19.2
Depreciation 3,8 27.2 26.7
Share option expense 18 6.8 5.1
Other movements (2.9) (1.8)
(Increase) / decrease in inventories (5.5) 6.1
Increase in trade and other receivables (22.4) (23.3)
Increase in trade and other payables 2.5 11.9
Cash outflow in respect of exceptional operating items (6.9) (10.5)
Additional pension contributions (2.5) (6.1)
Movements in provisions (8.1) (10.8)
Cash inflow from operating activities 130.7 127.7
Income tax paid (20.5) (17.5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 110.2 110.2
Investing activities
Interest received 0.3 0.3
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (38.1) (44.1)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5.0 0.4
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired 23 (26.1) (188.9)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (58.9) (232.3)
Financing activities
Interest paid (8.8) (9.6)
Dividends paid to equity holders (38.1) (31.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.2) (1.0)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests 25 – (1.9)
Proceeds from equity issue 19 167.6 141.7
Proceeds from issue of shares to non-controlling interests – 1.5
Repayments of short-term loans (3.8) –
Proceeds from short-term loans – 0.2
Repayments of long-term loans (158.1) –
Proceeds from long-term loans – 37.5
Purchase of employee trust shares (12.3) (16.3)
Proceeds from sale of employee trust shares 4.3 4.7
Net cash (outflow) / inflow from financing activities (49.4) 125.6
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 21 1.9 3.5
Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 44.1 41.4
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.9 3.5
Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents – (0.8)
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,12 46.0 44.1
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS A. Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) in accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) (“adopted 
IFRS”) and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Company has elected to prepare its individual 
company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”); these are 
presented on pages 136 to 141.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and 
retirement benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 
The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and 
expense during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or 
actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to all periods presented. 
Changes in accounting policies
In the current financial year, Essentra adopted the following accounting pronouncements. Otherwise, the accounting policies and 
presentation in this set of financial statements are consistent with those applied in the prior years. The adoption of these 
pronouncements did not have an impact on the Group in relation to measurement, recognition and presentation. The adoption of 
IFRS 12 has not resulted in any significant additional disclosures, as the Group does not have material non-controlling interests, 
significant restrictions on access to the assets of the subsidiaries, structured entities or unconsolidated subsidiaries. The effect of the 
Group’s exit from the Filters Jordan business is included within disclosures of exceptional items.
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities provide clarification on the application of offsetting rules. 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the guidance of control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC 12 Consolidation – 
Special Purpose Entities. The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single 
entity remains unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending on the 
rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement. Proportionate consolidation for joint ventures has been eliminated and 
equity accounting has become mandatory.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with 
the Group’s interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements makes revisions to the requirements for separate financial statements prepared by a 
parent or an investor in a joint venture or associate.
IAS 28 (Revised) Associates and Joint Ventures includes consequential amendments resulting from the introduction of IFRS 11.
Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting provide relief from discontinuing hedge 
accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria and retrospective application  
is required.
IFRIC 21 Levies clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by the 
relevant legislation, occurs.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES
ACCOUNTING POLICIES A. Basis of preparation continued
The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group. The Group is currently assessing the impact of 
IFRS 15 and IFRS 9, and does not currently expect the adoption of the other standards or interpretations to have a material impact on 
the consolidated results or financial position of the Group:
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts 
with customers, and provides a more structured approach to measurement and recognition of revenue.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting, 
and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions clarify that an entity is permitted to recognise employee 
contributions as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the service is rendered, instead of allocating the contributions to 
the periods of service, if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of service.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative clarify that an entity should use professional judgement in determining what information 
should be disclosed in the financial statements, and the location and order of presentation in financial disclosures.
All other new pronouncements did not have, or are not expected to have, a significant impact on the Group.
For the purposes of these financial statements “Essentra” or “the Group” means Essentra plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial Review on pages 16 to 17 . In addition, note 1 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities 
and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk. Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21. The Directors have prepared 
plans and forecasts for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements. Based on these, and 
taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 1, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements. This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
B. Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Essentra. Control exists when Essentra is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The financial statements 
of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in 
preparing the financial statements. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES C. Foreign currency
Items included in the financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the subsidiary operates (“functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling 
(functional currency of the parent company).
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and 
recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply (see policy for financial instruments).
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated 
into sterling at average exchange rates. 
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to other 
comprehensive income, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net 
investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective. Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement. Differences 
arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
D. Financial instruments
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (“IAS 39”), interest bearing loans and borrowings and 
other financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship. 
See note 15 for separate disclosure of hedge types. 
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value. Subsequent measurement in the financial statements depends on the classification of 
the derivative as follows: 
(i) Fair value hedges
Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative is 
recognised in the income statement. 
(ii) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge the change in fair value is recognised in other 
comprehensive income to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. Where the 
underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same 
period as the hedged item affects profit or loss. Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and 
losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset. 
(iii) Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in 
other comprehensive income. Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
E. Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Previously revalued 
properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as 
separate items. The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES E. Property, plant and equipment continued
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the following 
annual rates: 
Freehold land Not depreciated
Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter
Plant and machinery 7-20%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10-33%
The assets’ useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
F. Leases
Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis. Lease incentives are 
amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
G. Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses. 
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method. For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill 
represents the difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed 
cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP . 
Since 1 January 2010, the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement. Given their one-off nature, 
these costs are generally presented within exceptional operating items.
(ii) Research and development
Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred. 
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of 
completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the 
asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to 
measure reliably the expenditure during development.
(iii) Other intangible assets
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected future 
economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably. Intangible assets 
principally relate to customer relationships, which are valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates, 
and developed technology, which is valued using an income approach. The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income 
statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life. 
H. Impairment
All assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill and intangible assets with 
indefinite lives are tested annually. Other intangible assets are tested if there is an indication of impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement. 
Value in use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES I. Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (on a first in, first out basis) and net realisable value. For work-in-progress and finished 
goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
J. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the 
date of acquisition. Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Essentra’s cash management and are included as 
part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
K. Loans and borrowings
Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost (which is equal to fair value at inception) and are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the 
settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
L. Trade and other receivables
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
M. Trade and other payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
 
N. Catalogue costs
The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received 
to those goods.
O. Income tax
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill 
not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, 
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is 
determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet dates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
P . Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of expected warranty claims when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
The majority of the Group’s businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, where the Group as seller makes its goods ready for collection 
at its premises on an agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs all transportation and handling costs and bears the risks for 
bringing the goods to their chosen destination. The Group operates non ex-works terms with customers in some of its businesses, and 
in these businesses, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. 
These terms include some consignment stock agreements, where revenue is recognised when the customer removes the goods from 
consignment stock.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES Q. Finance income and expense
Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
 
R. Segment reporting
A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee (refer to 
Corporate Governance Report) in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance. 
S. Pensions
(i)  Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit schemes
The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the 
balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Essentra’s obligations. The 
calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Net interest on defined benefit 
assets is presented within finance income, and net interest on defined benefit liabilities is presented within finance expense.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost (including curtailments) and gains and losses 
on settlement. 
The value of a net pension asset is limited to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed 
refunds from the scheme. 
T. Share-based payments
Essentra operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans. A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of 
option awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price information with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and vesting date of the options. 
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of 
options that fail to vest because market conditions are not met.
U. One-off items in the consolidated income statement
The exceptional operating items below are separated from other items by virtue of their size and incidence (considered for each 
operating segment). They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for 
the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and performance. These items exclude amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets which are also presented separately in the income statement.
(i) Acquisition fees
In 2014 and 2013, Essentra incurred significant one-off costs (such as professional fees) as a result of the various acquisitions and 
transactions that did not complete (refer to note 23). 
(ii) Acquisition integration and restructuring costs
Costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with acquisitions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES U. One-off items in the consolidated income statement continued
(iii) Other exceptional items
In 2014, this represents loss on disposal of Filters Jordan and an adjustment on contingent deferred consideration in relation to the 
acquisition of Ulinco. In 2013, this represents costs incurred in relation to rebranding of the Group to Essentra, an adjustment on 
contingent deferred consideration in relation to a previous acquisition and Extrusion restructuring.
V. Investment in own shares
The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are 
treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings. The cost of shares held directly (treasury shares) 
are also deducted from retained earnings. 
W. Provisions
A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the outflow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation. The outflow is the present value of management’s 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
X. Government grants
Government grants are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the grants will be received and that all related conditions will 
be met, usually on submission of a valid claim for payment. Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are included within 
the carrying amount of the related property, plant and equipment, and are released to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful lives of the relevant assets. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to profit or loss so as to match them with the 
expenditure to which they relate.
Y. Net debt
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
Z. Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company (final dividend) or 
paid (interim dividend). 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and 
estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The Directors 
believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Essentra’s 
performance and financial position. 
I. Pensions
Essentra accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19. The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of 
judgement in relation to the assumptions used and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes (see note 18). In 
consultation with Essentra’s actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Essentra’s 
circumstances. Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations. The Group performs a sensitivity 
analysis for the significant assumptions used in determining post-retirement costs and liabilities, as detailed in note 18.
II. Intangible assets
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods used to value such 
intangible assets require the use of estimates. Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the 
estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, along with the finite lived intangible assets and other assets of the 
Group’s cash generating units. Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including discount rates, 
timing and growth prospects) which are inherently subjective. The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in respect of the tests 
for impairment, as detailed in note 9.
The useful lives of the Group’s finite lived intangible assets are reviewed following the tests for impairment annually.
III. Taxation
Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each 
of the jurisdictions in which it operates. Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an 
assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments. The Group 
performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of taxation judgements that are materially sensitive as they arise.
IV. Provisions 
Essentra’s provisions are management’s best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of a past event, based on currently available information. By their nature these provisions are judgemental, reflecting 
management’s assessment of factors such as likelihood of product returns and warranty claims, and possible amounts involved. The 
Group performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of provision judgements that are materially sensitive as they arise.
V. Depreciation 
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Group. Therefore, the estimates and assumptions 
made to determine their carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Group’s financial position and performance.
The charge in respect of depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected 
residual value at the end of its life. Decreasing an asset’s expected life or its residual value would result in a higher depreciation charge 
in the income statement.
The useful lives of the Group’s assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed at least annually 
for appropriateness. The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may 
impact their life, such as changes in technology. Historically changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material 
changes to the Group’s depreciation charge.
VI. Valuation of trade receivables 
Valuation of trade receivables includes estimates of provision for impairment losses. The Group considers various relevant factors in 
arriving at these estimates, including the financial standing and circumstances of the customers, status of any claims or disputes, 
and wider economic risks such as country specific risks. These estimates and their movements are disclosed in note 1.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES 1. Financial risk management
Essentra’s activities expose the business to a number of key financial risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its 
business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for Essentra’s system of internal control and financial risk management and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of this system. Such a system can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Essentra has a centralised treasury function to manage funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk. 
Treasury policies are approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of derivatives that may be 
employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash. Essentra uses derivatives only to manage currency and interest rate risk 
arising from underlying business activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. The treasury function is subject to 
periodic independent reviews by the Group Assurance department. Underlying policy assumptions and activities are reviewed by the 
Treasury Committee.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant 
combination of geographical presence, expertise and suitable credit rating. 
The following describes Essentra’s financial risk exposure and management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial asset or liability fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Essentra has no significant individual 
concentrations of credit risk. The following is an overview of how Essentra manages its credit risk exposures.
Trade and other receivables
Essentra’s exposure to credit risk is driven by the profile of its customers. This is influenced by the demographics of the customer base, 
including the industry and country in which customers operate. Trade and other receivables are generally due from customers who are 
unlikely to seek credit ratings as part of their normal course of business. 
Essentra monitors significant customers’ credit limits and there is an allowance for impairment that represents the estimate of 
potential losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The components of this allowance are a specific allowance for individual 
losses and a collective allowance for losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective allowance takes account of 
historical experience and the profile of customers.
As at 31 December 2014, gross trade receivables were £151.8m (2013: £130.7m) of which £25.1m (2013: £19.4m) were past due but not 
impaired. The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Up to 3 months 25.1 19.4
As at 31 December 2014, trade receivables of £6.3m (2013: £5.7m) were provided for as they were considered to be impaired. The 
ageing of the impaired receivables provided for is as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Up to 3 months 1.6 2.1
Over 3 months 4.7 3.6
6.3 5.7
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES
NOTES 1. Financial risk management continued
The movement in the provision for impaired receivables is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Beginning of year 5.7 4.9
Impaired receivables acquired 0.5 1.5
Impairment loss recognised 2.8 0.6
Release in the year (1.6) (0.4)
Utilisation (1.1) (0.9)
End of year 6.3 5.7
Derivative assets
Credit risk with respect to derivatives is controlled by limiting transactions to major banking counterparties where internationally 
agreed standard form documentation exists. The credit ratings of these counterparties are monitored.
Cash and cash equivalents
Credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents is monitored daily, on a counterparty by counterparty basis. The credit limits imposed 
specify the maximum amount of cash which can be invested in, or with, any single counterparty. These limits are determined by 
geographic presence, expertise and credit rating. Essentra monitors the credit ratings of counterparties.
The following credit risk table provides information regarding the credit risk exposure of Essentra by classifying derivative assets and 
cash and cash equivalents according to credit ratings of the counterparties. AAA is the highest possible rating and all of the assets 
are neither impaired nor past due.
2014
AAA
£m
AA
£m
A
£m
BBB 
£m
BB 
£m
Not  
rated
£m
Total
£m
Derivative assets – 0.1 0.3 3.5 – – 3.9
Cash and cash equivalents – 2.6 13.9 27.5 1.0 1.0 46.0
– 2.7 14.2 31.0 1.0 1.0 49.9
 
2013
AAA
£m
AA
£m
A
£m
BBB
£m
BB
£m
Not rated
£m
Total
£m
Derivative assets – – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents – 9.5 29.0 3.6 0.6 1.4 44.1
– 9.5 29.2 3.6 0.6 1.4 44.3
Essentra’s maximum credit risk exposure is £209.4m (2013: £180.3m) and no collateral is held against this amount (2013: £nil).
ii) Market price risk
Market price risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect income or the value of financial assets 
and liabilities. Essentra has produced a sensitivity analysis that shows the estimated change to the income statement and equity of  
a 1%, 5% or 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all other currencies or an increase or decrease of 50 basis points (“bps”), 
100bps and 200bps in market interest rates. The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates and actual results in 
the future may materially differ. 
Essentra is exposed to two types of market price risk: currency risk and interest rate risk.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES a) Currency risk
Essentra publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling but conducts business in several foreign currencies. Therefore it is 
subject to currency risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the translation of results and underlying net assets of its 
operations and their transaction costs. 
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The majority of Essentra’s net assets are in currencies other than sterling. The Company’s normal policy is to limit the translation 
exposure and the resulting impact on shareholders’ funds through measures such as borrowing in those currencies in which the Group 
has significant net assets. Essentra’s US dollar denominated assets were approximately 48% (2013: 45%) hedged by the US dollar 
denominated borrowings. At 31 December 2014, Essentra did not have any euro denominated borrowings as these were repaid with 
the proceeds from the share placing during the year. At 31 December 2013, Essentra’s euro denominated assets were 82% hedged by 
its euro denominated borrowings. 
Transaction exposure hedging
The majority of Essentra’s transactions are carried out in the functional currencies of its operations and therefore transaction  
exposure is limited. However, where such exposure does occur, Essentra uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge its exposure 
to movements in exchange rates on its highly probable forecast foreign currency sales and purchases over a period of up to 18 months. 
Essentra does not formally define the proportion of highly probable forecast sales and purchases to hedge, but agrees an appropriate 
percentage on an individual basis with each business by reference to the Group’s risk management policies and prevailing market 
conditions. The Group documents currency derivatives used to hedge its forecast transactions as cash flow hedges. To the extent that 
cash flow hedges are effective, gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, 
at which point the gains and losses are transferred either to the income statement or to the non-financial asset acquired.
The following table shows Essentra’s sensitivity to a 1%, 5% and 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all currencies.  
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year all currencies’ average rates have been increased or decreased by 1%,  
5% or 10%. The translational effect on equity is limited as a proportion of US dollar and euro exposure is hedged. Accordingly the 
effect on equity is calculated by increasing or decreasing the closing rate of all currencies with an adjustment for the movement  
in currency hedges. It is assumed that all net investment and cash flow hedges will continue to be 100% effective.
 
Weakening in sterling
2014
Strengthening in sterling
10%
£m
5% 
£m
1%
£m
1%
£m
5% 
£m
10%
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 8.2 3.9 0.7 (0.7) (3.5) (6.7)
Impact on equity – gain / (loss) 46.2 21.9 4.2 (4.1) (19.8) (37.8)
Weakening in sterling
2013
Strengthening in sterling
10%
£m
5% 
£m
1%
£m
1%
£m
5% 
£m
10%
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 7.9 3.8 0.7 (0.7) (3.4) (6.5)
Impact on equity – gain / (loss) 29.4 13.9 2.7 (2.6) (12.6) (24.0)
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 1. Financial risk management continued
b) Interest rate risk
During 2014, Essentra’s strategy was to ensure with a reasonable degree of certainty that at least 50% of the overall net finance 
expense is protected against material adverse movements in interest rates using fixed interest rate debt, interest rate swaps and 
caps. With effect from 1 January 2015, Essentra implemented a revised policy, which is to ensure that at least 30% of the total debt 
with maturities of more than one year is protected with fixed interest rates or approved interest rate derivatives.
The following table shows Essentra’s sensitivity to a 50bps, 100bps and 200bps decrease or increase in sterling, US dollar and euro 
interest rates. To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all external floating rate interest 
bearing loans and borrowings have been increased or decreased by 50bps, 100bps or 200bps and the resulting increase or decrease in 
the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of Essentra’s interest rate derivatives. At 31 December 2014, the Group had no 
significant floating rate debt and therefore has no significant sensitivity to interest rate movements. There is no impact on amounts 
recorded directly in other comprehensive income or equity. 
 
Decrease in interest rates
2014
Increase in interest rates
200bps
£m
100bps
£m
50bps
£m
50bps
£m
100bps
£m
200bps
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) – – – – – –
 
Decrease in interest rates
2013
Increase in interest rates
200bps
£m
100bps
£m
50bps
£m
50bps
£m
100bps
£m
200bps
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 3.1 1.5 0.8 (0.8) (1.5) (3.1)
See note 14 for interest rate disclosure on loans and borrowings.
iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Essentra, although solvent, will encounter difficulties in meeting obligations associated with financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
On 1 July 2014, Essentra plc refinanced its bank facilities, and replaced the existing £330m sterling and euro-denominated five-year 
revolving credit facilities with a new £390m five-year facility at more competitive terms.
Essentra’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility. Essentra is mostly funded by two series of 
US$80m US Private Placement Loan Notes from various financial institutions and syndicated 5-year revolving credit facilities of £262m and 
€160m from its bankers. The two series of Loan Notes of US$80m have maturities of seven and ten years and the revolving credit facilities 
mature in July 2019 . At 31 December 2014 the available bank facilities totalled £387 .0m (2013: £322.0m) of which £nil (2013: £153.3m) was 
drawn down. In addition, uncommitted and overdraft facilities are maintained to provide short-term flexibility. During the year, Essentra 
issued a total of 23,659 ,761 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 713.5p per share, raising gross proceeds of £168.8m, to fund the 
acquisition of the Specialist Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group (see note 23) . During 2013, Essentra issued a total of 21,142,613 new 
ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 675p per share, raising gross proceeds of £142.7m, to fund the acquisition of Contego.
Amounts drawn by Essentra on its committed facilities are subject to standard banking covenants.
Essentra’s available undrawn committed facilities at 31 December were:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Expiring after two years 387.0 168.7
Any loans drawn on these facilities would bear interest at floating rates with reference to LIBOR for the currency and period of the loan.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES The maturity of Essentra’s financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments, is analysed below.
2014
Fair value
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Contractual  
cash flows
£m
<1 yr
£m
1-2 yrs
£m
2-5 yrs
£m
>5 yrs
£m
Unsecured bank loans 5.3 5.3 5.5 5.0 0.1 0.2 0.2
Loan Notes 111.3 101.9 126.1 5.8 5.8 61.7 52.8
Derivative liabilities 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – –
Trade and other payables 96.7 96.7 96.7 96.7 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 2.8 2.8 3.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 0.6
Other non-current financial liabilities 
– Deferred contingent consideration 3.5 3.5 3.5 – 2.2 1.3 –
219.7 210.3 235.0 108.6 8.9 63.9 53.6
2013
Fair value 
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Contractual  
cash flows
£m
<1 yr
£m
1-2 yrs
£m
2-5 yrs
£m
>5 yrs
£m
Unsecured bank loans 162.6 162.6 170.6 8.7 2.8 159.1 –
Loan Notes 105.7 95.5 123.9 5.4 5.4 60.6 52.5
Derivative liabilities 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 – – –
Trade and other payables 95.2 95.2 95.2 95.2 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 3.1 3.1 3.5 0.8 2.7 – –
Other non-current financial liabilities 
– Deferred contingent consideration 5.4 5.4 5.4 – 2.1 3.3 –
372.3 362.1 398.9 110.4 13.0 223.0 52.5
Total trade and other payables carried at £156.8m (2013: £135.1m) include accruals and deferred income of £52.8m (2013: £34.2m) and 
other taxes and social security contributions of £7 .3m (2013: £5.7m) which are not financial liabilities and are therefore excluded from 
the above analysis. All trade and other payables are due to be settled in less than six months. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 1. Financial risk management continued
Total financial assets and liabilities
The table below sets out Essentra’s accounting categories and fair value for each class of financial asset and liability.
2014 2013
Fair value 
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Amortised 
cost
£m
Total 
carrying 
value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Amortised 
cost
£m
Total 
carrying 
value 
£m
Trade and other receivables – 161.4 – 161.4 – 136.0 – 136.0
Cash and cash equivalents – 46.0 – 46.0 – 44.1 – 44.1
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – (110.0) (110.0) – – (261.2) (261.2)
Trade and other payables – – (94.4) (94.4) – – (94.4) (94.4)
Level 2 of fair value hierarchy
Derivative assets 3.9 – – 3.9 0.2 – – 0.2
Derivative liabilities (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.3) – – (0.3)
Level 3 of fair value hierarchy
Other non-current financial liabilities (3.5) – – (3.5) (5.4) – – (5.4)
Other current payables (2.3) – – (2.3) (0.8) – – (0.8)
(2.0) 207.4 (204.4) 1.0 (6.3) 180.1 (355.6) (181.8)
Total trade and other receivables carried at £168.5m (2013: £140.7m) include prepayments and accrued income of £7 .1m (2013: £4.7m) 
which are not financial assets and are therefore excluded from the above analysis. Fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts 
and cross currency swaps have been calculated at year end forward exchange rates compared to contracted rates. These are 
determined to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
The only financial instrument with fair value determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, which is classified as level 3  
in the fair value hierarchy, is the deferred contingent consideration of £5.8m relating to the acquisition of Mesan Kilit A.S. (2013: £6.2m 
relating to the acquisitions of Ulinco Components and Mesan Kilit A.S.). The fair value of the deferred contingent consideration is 
estimated based on an assessment of the likely outcome of the acquired business’ financial performance. There have been no 
transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy. There are no non-recurring fair value measurements. During the year, a fair value 
gain of £0.6m (2013: fair value gain of £0.8m) in respect of financial instruments at level 3 fair value hierarchy was recognised within 
exceptional items (see note 3), and £nil (2013: £0.4m) was settled in cash. No other fair value gains or losses were recorded in profit or 
loss and other comprehensive income.
Included within interest bearing loans and borrowings are $160m US Private Placement Loan Notes. The Loan Notes are held at 
amortised cost with a carrying value of £101.9m (2013: £95.5m). The Group estimates that the total fair value of the Loan Notes at  
31 December 2014 is £111.3m (2013: £105.7m).
All other financial assets, classified as ‘loans and receivables’, and trade and other payables, classified as ‘amortised cost’, are held at 
amortised cost and have short terms to maturity. For this reason, their carrying amounts at the reporting date approximate the fair 
values. Unsecured bank loans, included within interest bearing loans and borrowings, incur interest at floating rates and as a result 
their carrying amounts also approximate their fair values at the reporting date. 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES The table below shows the amount of bank overdrafts offset against the bank balances under enforceable master netting 
agreements with banks:
   
Gross amount of  
recognised financial 
assets 
 
£m
Gross amount of  
recognised financial  
liabilities set off  
in the balance sheet
£m
Net amount of  
financial assets  
presented in the  
balance sheet
£m
Cash and cash equivalents:
At 31 December 2014 48.4 (2.4) 46.0
At 31 December 2013 45.8 (1.7) 44.1
iv) Capital structure
Essentra defines its capital structure as its equity and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings, and aims to manage this  
to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders.
Essentra sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. Essentra manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in  
the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, Essentra may return capital to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, issue new shares or sell assets  
to reduce debt. 
Essentra monitors its capital structure on the basis of the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio. EBITDA is defined as operating 
profit before depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment, share option expense, intangible 
amortisation and exceptional operating items. Net debt is adjusted to exclude prepaid facility fees. During 2014, Essentra’s  
strategy, which was unchanged from 2013, was to maintain the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio in the range 1.0 to 2.5.  
The net debt-to-EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2014 was low due to the inclusion of proceeds from the issue of 23,659,761 shares  
during 2014, to fund the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD which was completed on 30 January 2015.
The net debt-to-EBITDA ratios at 31 December were:
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Net debt excluding prepaid facility fees 64.7 218.6
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 142.5 130.4
Plus depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 8 27.2 28.0
Plus share option expense 18 6.8 5.1
EBITDA 176.5 163.5
Net debt-to-EBITDA ratio 0.37 1.34
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 2. Segment analysis
In accordance with IFRS 8, Essentra has determined its operating segments based upon the information reported to the Group 
Management Committee. These segments are as follows:
Component & Protection Solutions consists of a Component Distribution business and a Pipe Protection Technologies business. 
Component Distribution is a global market-leading manufacturer and distributor of plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip moulded, and 
metal items. The Pipe Protection Technologies business specialises in the manufacture of high performance innovative products from 
commodity resins to engineering-grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys. 
Porous Technologies is a global market leading developer and manufacturer of custom fluid handling components, engineered from 
a portfolio of technologies that includes bonded and non-woven fibre, polyurethane foam, and porous plastic. 
Packaging & Securing Solutions is a global market-leading provider of packaging and securing solutions through a range of cartons, 
tapes, leaflets, foils and labels for the healthcare, consumer and specialist packaging, point of sale and paper & board industries. The 
division is also a leading supplier of authentication technologies and identity solutions.
Filter Products is an independent cigarette filter manufacturer supplying a wide range of value adding high quality innovative filters, 
packaging solutions to the roll your own sector and analytical laboratory services for ingredient measurement for the industry.
Other represents Extrusion which is a leading custom profile extruder located in The Netherlands offering a complete design and 
production service. 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 2014
Component 
& Protection 
Solutions
£m
Porous 
Technologies
£m
Packaging  
& Securing 
Solutions
£m
Filter 
Products
£m
Other
£m
Eliminations
£m
Central 
Services
1
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
E x t e r n a l r e v e n u e   243.4 89.7 215.5 291.4 25.7 – – 865.7 – 865.7
Intersegment revenue 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.1 – (1.2) – – – –
Total revenue 243.6 89.8 216.3 291.5 25.7 (1.2) – 865.7 – 865.7
Operating profit/
(loss) before 
intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional 
operating items 58.9 15.8 38.3 43.9 1.6 – (16.0) 142.5 – 142.5
Intangible 
amortisation (6.6) (2.1) (8.8) – – – – (17.5) – (17.5)
Exceptional 
operating items (4.0) (0.2) (11.6) (0.4) – – – (16.2) – (16.2)
Operating  
profit / (loss)
48.3 13.5 17.9 43.5 1.6 – (16.0) 108.8 – 108.8
Segment assets 148.8 59.8 120.8 133.6 13.8 – 5.1 481.9 – 481.9
Intangible assets 156.3 46.2 197.5 – 6.4 – – 406.4 – 406.4
Unallocated items – – – – – – 92.6 92.6 – 92.6
Total assets 305.1 106.0 318.3 133.6 20.2 – 97.7 980.9 – 980.9
Segment liabilities 44.4 10.7 41.8 38.8 2.7 – 27.0 165.4 2.5 167.9
Unallocated items – – – – – – 215.2 215.2 – 215.2
Total liabilities 44.4 10.7 41.8 38.8 2.7 – 242.2 380.6 2.5 381.1
Other segment items
Capital expenditure 10.7 2.8 11.6 9.3 2.0 – 1.7 38.1 – 38.1
Depreciation 7.1 3.3 6.5 8.5 1.4 – 0.4 27.2 – 27.2
Average number of 
employees
1,697 557 1,517 1,732 214 – 109 5,826 – 5,826
1  
Central Services includes group finance, tax, treasury, legal, group assurance, human resources, information technology, corporate development, 
corporate affairs and other services provided centrally to support the operating segments
Continuing operations’ net finance expense of £9.1m (2013: £10.6m) and income tax expense of £27 .9m (2013: £26.1m) cannot be 
meaningfully allocated by segment. The unallocated assets relate to deferred tax assets, retirement benefit assets, derivatives and 
cash and cash equivalents. The unallocated liabilities relate to interest bearing loans and borrowings, retirement benefit obligations, 
derivatives, deferred tax liabilities and income tax payable. Intersegment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis.
No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue in either 2014 or 2013. Analysed by destination, revenue to Europe and Africa is 
£438.6m (2013: £365.7m), revenue to Americas is £260.0m (2013: £240.6m) and revenue to Asia and Middle East is £167 .1m (2013: 
£191.8m). Revenue to the UK is £118.6m (2013: £97 .7m), with other significant countries being the USA with revenue of £213.5m (2013: 
£194.9m), China £40.8m (2012: £48.7m) and Germany £47 .1m (2013: £41.9m). Non-current assets in the UK total £179.2m (2013: 
£242.6m), with the other significant location being the USA with £205.6m (2013: £198.7m).
Included within revenue is the net loss arising from the change in the fair value of forward exchange cash flow hedges transferred to 
the income statement of £0.1m (2013: net loss of £0.1m).
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 2. Segment analysis continued 
2013
Component 
& Protection 
Solutions
£m
Porous 
Technologies
£m
Packaging  
& Securing 
Solutions
£m
Filter 
Products
£m
Other
£m
Eliminations
£m
Central 
Services
1
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 223.4 98.7 181.3 269.9 24.8 – – 798.1 – 798.1
Intersegment revenue 0.3 1.3 0.5 – – (2.1) – – – –
Total revenue 223.7 100.0 181.8 269.9 24.8 (2.1) – 798.1 – 798.1
Operating profit/
(loss) before 
intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional 
operating items 52.6 23.5 30.2 40.1 1.5 – (17.5) 130.4 – 130.4
Intangible 
amortisation (5.2) (2.2) (6.8) – – – – (14.2) – (14.2)
Exceptional 
operating items (2.8) (0.9) (13.8) (0.2) (0.3) – (1.2) (19.2) – (19.2)
Operating profit/
(loss)
44.6 20.4 9.6 39.9 1.2 (18.7) 97.0 – 97.0
Segment assets 120.8 65.0 113.5 115.4 13.5 – 1.7 429.9 – 429.9
Intangible assets 136.7 46.0 207.2 – 6.8 – – 396.7 – 396.7
Unallocated items – – – – – – 76.6 76.6 – 76.6
Total assets 257 .5 111.0 320.7 115.4 20.3 – 78.3 903.2 – 903.2
Segment liabilities 39.6 10.5 40.5 39.7 2.5 – 20.8 153.6 2.3 155.9
Unallocated items – – – – – – 344.3 344.3 – 344.3
Total liabilities 39.6 10.5 40.5 39.7 2.5 365.1 497.9 2.3 500.2
Other segment items
Capital expenditure 12.3 2.7 5.0 21.6 1.7 – 0.8 44.1 – 44.1
Depreciation 7.1 3.2 5.9 8.9 1.4 – 0.2 26.7 – 26.7
Average number of 
employees
1,413 611 1,264 1,494 199 – 47 5,028 – 5,028
1
 Central Services includes group finance, tax, treasury, legal, group assurance, human resources, information technology, corporate development and 
other services provided centrally to support the operating segments
3. Net operating expense
  
 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (2.7) 5.0
Raw materials and consumables 373.2 336.1
Personnel expense (note 6) 194.5 179.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 8) 27.2 26.7
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 9) 17.5 14.2
Exceptional operating items 16.2 19.2
Operating lease expense 7.1 6.7
Exchange differences recognised in profit or loss 0.4 0.3
Other operating expenses 123.5 113.2
Net operating expense 756.9 701.1
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES No income or expense (2013: £nil) was recognised in operating expense during the year in respect of ineffective cash flow hedges. 
Essentra’s hedges of net investments were also entirely effective in 2014 and 2013, as defined by IAS 39, and therefore no hedge 
ineffectiveness has been recognised in net operating expense in 2014 (2013: £nil). Research and development expenses (including 
relevant staff costs) incurred during the year amounted to £7 .3m (2013: £8.3m). 
Other operating expenses include manufacturing, selling, general and administrative overheads.
Exceptional operating items
  
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Acquisition fees
1
7.1 4.7
Acquisition integration and restructuring costs
2
9.3 12.6
Other
3
(0.2) 1.9
16.2 19.2
1  
Transaction costs incurred during the year primarily in respect of the acquisitions of Kelvindale, Abric and Clondalkin SPD (2013: Ulinco, Contego, Dakota and 
Mesan, as well as transactions that did not complete)
2  
Acquisition integration and restructuring costs incurred during the year associated with the acquisitions of Kelvindale, Contego, Dakota, Mesan and Abric 
(2013: Richco, Ulinco, Contego, Dakota and Mesan) 
3  
Other exceptional items incurred during the year, which comprise £0.4m loss on disposal of Filters Jordan and a £0.6m credit adjustment for contingent 
deferred consideration in relation to the acquisition of Ulinco (2013: £2.4m relating to costs incurred in relation to rebranding of the Group to Essentra, a £0.8m 
credit adjustment for contingent deferred consideration in relation to the acquisition of Reid Supply Company, and £0.3m relating to Extrusion restructuring)
4  
The tax effect of the exceptional items is a credit of £0.9m (2013: £2.8m)
Auditor’s remuneration 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Audit of these financial statements 0.3 0.3
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.7 0.7
Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2
Other tax advisory services – –
Corporate finance services
2
0.1 –
Other services
1,4
0.1 0.1
Total fees
3
1.4 1.3
1  
Fees for other services related principally to the review of the half year financial statements
2
  The Company believes that, given their detailed knowledge of Essentra’s operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance of 
carrying out detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for certain audit-related work to be carried out by the 
Company’s auditor rather than another firm of accountants. The Audit Committee, which consists of independent Non-Executive Directors, reviews 
and approves the level and nature of non-audit work which the auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring that the 
auditor’s objectivity and independence is not compromised
3
  £0.1m (2013: £0.1m) of the total non-audit fees were charged in the UK
4  
Fees of £15,335 (2013: £15,740) were paid in relation to the audit of the Essentra pension schemes
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 4. Net finance expense
2014
£m
2013
£m
Finance income
Bank deposits 0.2 0.2
Net interest on net pension scheme assets (note 18) 1.2 0.8
1.4 1.0
Finance expense
Interest on loans and overdrafts (8.4) (9.4)
Amortisation of bank facility fees (1.1) (1.0)
Other finance expense (0.4) (0.3)
Net interest on pension scheme liabilities (note 18) (0.6) (0.9)
(10.5) (11.6)
Net finance expense (9.1) (10.6)
5. Income tax expense
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts charged / (credited) in the consolidated income statement
Current tax 26.3 29.3
Prior years’ tax 1.0 (0.6)
Double tax relief – –
Deferred tax (note 16) 0.6 (2.6)
Income tax expense 27.9 26.1
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Deferred tax (credit) / charge on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (5.0) 3.1
Income tax credit on effective net investment hedges (0.5) –
Income tax (credit) / charge (5.5) 3.1
Factors affecting income tax expense for the year
Essentra operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions. Essentra calculates its average 
expected tax rate as a weighted average of the national corporate income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit before income tax 99.7 86.4
Tax at weighted average (2014: 22.0%; 2013: 28.8%) 21.9 24.9
Effects of:
Other permanent disallowable items 1.4 2.1
Overseas state and local tax 0.8 0.8
Unrelieved tax losses 3.6 1.3
Prior year adjustments 0.4 (2.1)
Other items (0.2) (0.9)
Income tax expense 27.9 26.1
The change in the weighted average applicable tax rate is caused by a change in the geographical balance of the Group’s profits and 
by changes in corporate tax rates in these geographies. Income tax expense in the UK is £4.6m (2013: £0.7m). The UK corporate tax 
rate reduced from 23% to 21% on 1 April 2014 and a further reduction in the rate to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015 has been 
enacted. The impact of these enacted changes on deferred tax is not material.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 6. Personnel expense
2014
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 162.4 151.0
Social security expense 19.1 18.0
Pension expense (note 18) 6.2 5.6
Share option expense (note 18) 6.8 5.1
194.5 179.7
The Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 66 to 86 sets out information on Directors’ remuneration.
Key management remuneration
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 6.2 4.9
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5
Share-based payments 4.3 3.1
11.1 8.5
Essentra considers key management personnel to be the Directors and the members of the Group Management Committee. The amounts 
disclosed are on the same basis as those used to determine the relevant amounts disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
7 . Earnings per share
2014
£m
2013
£m
Continuing operations
Earnings attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc 71.0 60.1
Adjustments
Intangible amortisation 17.5 14.2
Exceptional operating items 16.2 19.2
33.7 33.4
Tax relief on adjustments (5.4) (6.8)
Adjusted earnings 99.3 86.7
Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue (m) 236.8 228.2
Dilutive effect of employee share option plans (m) 5.0 6.1
Diluted weighted average ordinary shares (m) 241.8 234.3
Continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 30.0p 26.3p
Adjustment 11.9p 11.7p
Basic adjusted earnings per share 41.9p 38.0p
Diluted earnings per share 29.4p 25.7p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 41.1p 37.0p
   
As noted on page 13 adjusted earnings per share is provided to reflect the underlying earnings performance of Essentra.
The basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes shares held in treasury and shares held by an employee 
benefit trust. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 8. Property, plant and equipment
 
2014
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 92.3 317.9 51.8 462.0
Acquisitions (note 23) (1.9) 1.5 (0.2) 3.6
Additions 4.8 26.9 8.8 40.5
Disposals (7.6) (10.0) (3.1) (20.7)
Currency translation 0.4 1.3 0.1 1.8
End of year 91.8 337.6 57.8 487.2
Depreciation and impairment
Beginning of year 25.8 189.9 32.6 248.3
Depreciation charge for the year 2.4 21.5 3.3 27.2
Disposals (6.1) (9.2) (2.8) (18.1)
Currency translation (0.5) (0.3) 0.1 (0.7)
End of year 21.6 201.9 33.2 256.7
Net book value at end of year 70.2 135.7 24.6 230.5
2013
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 87.2 282.1 44.1 413.4
Acquisitions 2.7 21.7 1.5 25.9
Additions 4.5 28.6 8.4 41.5
Disposals (0.2) (6.1) (1.8) (8.1)
Currency translation (1.9) (8.4) (0.4) (10.7)
End of year 92.3 317.9 51.8 462.0
Depreciation
Beginning of year 24.3 178.0 30.8 233.1
Depreciation charge for the year 2.0 21.1 3.6 26.7
Impairment charge 0.3 0.9 0.1 1.3
Disposals (0.1) (6.0) (1.5) (7.6)
Currency translation (0.7) (4.1) (0.4) (5.2)
End of year 25.8 189.9 32.6 248.3
Net book value at end of year 66.5 128.0 19.2 213.7
Included within land and buildings and plant and machinery are assets in the course of construction of £5.2m (2013: £2.6m) which were not 
depreciated during the year . The impairment charge recognised in the prior year primarily relates to write-down of plant and machinery and 
land and buildings as a result of the Group’s decision to withdraw from the manufacture and production of certain lower growth or margin, 
non-core products (including security and protection films and ID cards) at the Banbury site in the UK. This charge is attributable to the 
Packaging & Securing Solutions division. The recoverable amount is estimated on the basis of fair value less costs to sell, based on expected 
disposal proceeds. Contractual commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment amounted to £4.1m at 31 December 2014 (2013: 
£3.0m) . The net book value of assets under finance leases amounted to £4.6m as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £4.2m) . 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 9. Intangible assets
2014
Goodwill
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 196.2 224.1 14.2 434.5
Acquisitions (note 23) 16.2 11.7 – 27.9
Currency translation (0.6) (0.2) 0.8 –
End of year 211.8 235.6 15.0 462.4
Amortisation
Beginning of year – 32.7 5.1 37.8
Charge for the year – 16.3 1.2 17.5
Currency translation – 0.3 0.4 0.7
End of year – 49.3 6.7 56.0
Net book value at end of year 211.8 186.3 8.3 406.4
2013
Goodwill
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 96.5 121.3 12.7 230.5
Acquisitions 101.1 104.4 1.7 207.2
Currency translation (1.4) (1.6) (0.2) (3.2)
End of year 196.2 224.1 14.2 434.5
Amortisation
Beginning of year – 21.0 3.2 24.2
Charge for the year – 12.1 2.1 14.2
Currency translation – (0.4) (0.2) (0.6)
End of year – 32.7 5.1 37.8
Net book value at end of year 196.2 191.4 9.1 396.7
Other intangible assets principally comprise trade names acquired with Lendell and Reid Supply, developed technology acquired  
with Lendell, Richco and Lymtech, and order backlog.
The weighted average useful economic lives of customer relationships and other intangible assets at the end of the year were 15.0 years 
and 10.7 years (2013: 15.2 years and 14.4 years) respectively.
Essentra tests intangible assets annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment. A discounted cash 
flow analysis is computed to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of the goodwill 
and other intangible assets for each cash generating unit or group of cash generating units as appropriate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 9. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash generating units, being the operating segments, as follows:
Operating segment
Goodwill
2014
£m
2013
£m
Component & Protection Solutions 69.2 55.2
Porous Technologies 25.6 24.5
Packaging & Securing Solutions 110.6 109.7
Other – Extrusion 6.4 6.8
211.8 196.2
Intangible assets, apart from goodwill, are allocated to the businesses to which they relate as shown below:
Business Operating segment
Customer relationships 
and other intangible 
assets
2014
£m
2013
£m
Components – Businesses of former Moss and Skiffy Component & Protection Solutions 14.2 16.1
Components – Businesses of former Richco Component & Protection Solutions 33.9 34.6
Components – Business of former Reid Supply Component & Protection Solutions 8.3 8.9
Components – Business of former Mesan Component & Protection Solutions 16.9 18.8
Components – Abric Component & Protection Solutions 10.4 –
Porous St Charles Porous Technologies 4.8 5.3
Porous Chicopee Porous Technologies 13.8 14.1
Packaging Packaging & Securing Solutions 3.2 3.7
Speciality Tapes Packaging & Securing Solutions 13.4 14.0
Healthcare Packaging & Securing Solutions 69.1 78.4
Multiple businesses Multiple segments 6.6 6.6
194.6 200.5
The tests are based on the following assumptions:
 > Cash flows for the next two years are based upon the Group’s annual Plan. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections for 
the Group’s annual Plan are the revenue growth and operating margin for each division. Operating margin was primarily based on 
the levels achieved in 2014, which are disclosed in note 2, adjusted by targets set for revenue expansion and cost control and 
reduction for each individual division within the Plan period
 > Cash flows beyond the Plan period are based on year two’s Plan cash flows with growth rates specific to each business which 
range from nil to 3% (2013: nil to 3%)
 > The estimated cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon Essentra’s estimated post-tax weighted 
average cost of capital of 9.3% (2013: 8.6%) adjusted for the risk applicable to each operating segment. The pre-tax discount rates 
applied for each group of cash generating units to which significant goodwill is allocated are as follows: 16.7% (2013: 16.0%) for 
Component & Protection Solutions, 13.1% (2013: 12.5%) for Porous Technologies, 11.7% (2013: 11.2%) for Packaging & Securing 
Solutions and 11.7% (2013: 11.2%) for Other
Any impairment losses identified as a result of the analysis are recognised in profit or loss. The test is dependent on management estimates 
and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, and the discount rate applied to these cash flows.
The Group performed various sensitivity analyses which involved reducing future cash flows by up to 70%, reducing terminal growth 
rates by up to 4 percentage points or increasing pre-tax discount rates by up to 150 basis points. The results of these analyses showed 
that, despite significantly lower post-tax operating cash flows or increased pre-tax discount rates, the value in use of goodwill and 
other intangible assets continued to exceed their carrying value.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 10. Inventories
2014
£m
2013
£m
Raw materials and consumables 34.7 30.0
Work-in-progress 4.5 5.4
Finished goods and goods held for resale 45.6 40.1
84.8 75.5
The amount of inventories written down in 2014 was not material. During the prior year, £1.1m of inventories was written down  
as a result of the Group’s decision to withdraw from the manufacture and production of certain lower growth or margin, non-core 
products at the Banbury site in the UK.
11. Trade and other receivables
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade receivables 145.5 125.0
Other receivables 12.8 11.0
Prepayments and accrued income 7.1 4.7
165.4 140.7
12. Cash and cash equivalents
2014
£m
2013
£m
Bank balances 26.5 42.0
Short-term bank deposits and investments 19.5 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 46.0 44.1
13. Trade and other payables
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade payables 77 .3 72.4
Other tax and social security contributions 7.3 5.7
Other payables 19.4 22.8
Accruals and deferred income 52.8 34.2
156.8 135.1
14. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2014
£m
2013
£m
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 0.4 156.8
US Private Placement Loan Notes 101.9 95.5
Finance lease liabilities 1.9 2.4
104.2 254.7
 
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 4.9 5.8
Finance lease liabilities 0.9 0.7
5.8 6.5
   
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 14. Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
At 31 December 2014, the Group had £nil (2013: £90.0m) and €nil (2013: €76.0m) of unsecured bank loans drawn in sterling and euros 
at floating rates of interest set by reference to LIBOR. Essentra’s two $80m Loan Notes are at interest rate of 5.37% and 5.91% per 
annum respectively. At 31 December 2014, the unsecured bank loans were repaid with the proceeds from the share placing during  
the year.
The currency profile of the carrying and nominal values of Essentra’s loans and borrowings is as follows:
2014 2013
Carrying 
value
£m
Nominal 
value
£m
Carrying 
value
£m
Nominal 
value
£m
Sterling 1.2 1.2 91.3 91.6
US dollar 104.0 104.7 96.0 96.9
Euro 1.2 1.2 73.9 74.2
Other 3.6 3.6 – –
110.0 110.7 261.2 262.7
The amount in ‘Other’ relates mainly to the Abric operations acquired in 2014 (see note 23). The difference between the total  
nominal and carrying value of loans and borrowings relates to the amortised value of prepaid facility fees of £0.7m (2013: £1.5m).
15. Derivatives
Essentra uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and 
investment activities. In accordance with its Treasury policy, Essentra does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 
Assets Liabilities
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
At 31 December 2014
Fair value derivatives
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.4 7.9 – 4.0
Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.5 194.7 (0.1) 27.4
3.9 202.6 (0.1) 31.4
 
Assets Liabilities
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
At 31 December 2013
Fair value derivatives
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 5.8 (0.1) 6.4
Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 10.9 (0.2) 4.6
0.2 16.7 (0.3) 11.0
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 15. Derivatives continued
Fair value derivatives protect the Group from currency risk exposure from changes in the fair value of recognised assets or  
liabilities or a previously unrecognised firm commitment to buy or sell assets at a fixed price. 
Cash flow hedges are hedges of the currency and interest rate risk exposure to variability in cash flows. Of the balance at  
31 December 2014, £2.9m relates to a cash flow hedge on the consideration for the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD, which  
completed on 30 January 2015 (see note 23). The other cash flow hedges relate to usual trading transactions in foreign  
currencies, and the related cash flows are expected to occur within nine months.
Hedges of net investments are hedges of the currency risk exposure to changes in the carrying value of recognised investments  
in foreign operations. 
The net fair value gains on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge foreign currency risk of anticipated future sales  
and purchases will be transferred to the income statement when the forecast sales and purchases occur. All of the hedged 
transactions are expected to occur over the next 15 months and all derivative instruments mature within the next 15 months.
Essentra had US dollar and euro denominated borrowings which it designated as hedges of its net investments in subsidiary undertakings. 
The exchange losses of £6.2m (2013: gains of £1.7m) on the US dollar borrowings and the gains of £3.9m (2013: losses of £1.5m) on the euro 
borrowings were recognised in other comprehensive income.
Finance income and expense arising on financial assets and financial liabilities held at amortised cost are those amounts, excluding 
interest on pension scheme assets and interest on pension scheme liabilities, detailed in note 4. 
16. Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
2014 2013
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net
£m
Property, plant and equipment (2.7) 16.2 13.5 (2.2) 15.1 12.9
Intangible assets (0.5) 42.1 41.6 (0.5) 45.5 45.0
Employee benefits (13.6) 4.6 (9.0) (12.0) 5.1 (6.9)
Other (10.8) 7.6 (3.2) (16.6) 6.3 (10.3)
Tax (assets) / liabilities (27.6) 70.5 42.9 (31.3) 72.0 40.7
Set off of tax 15.8 (15.8) – 24.9 (24.9) –
Net tax (assets) / liabilities (11.8) 54.7 42.9 (6.4) 47.1 40.7
Movements in the year:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Beginning of year 40.7 15.2
Charge / (credit) to the income statement in respect of current year 1.3 (1.8)
Credit to the income statement in respect of prior years (0.7) (0.8)
(Credit) / charge to other comprehensive income on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (5.0) 3.1
Charge / (credit) to reserves on share-based incentives 3.4 (1.0)
Acquisitions 2.8 25.0
Currency translation 0.4 1.0
End of year 42.9 40.7
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
123
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 16. Deferred tax continued
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where Essentra is able to 
control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no 
liability would arise on the remittance. The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches 
for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £94.8m as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £97 .4m), and the associated 
amount of unrecognised deferred tax is £9.1m (2013: £7 .6m). Deferred tax assets of £0.2m (2013: £0.2m) in respect of capital losses 
have not been recognised where their realisation is not considered probable. No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect 
of unutilised tax losses of £30.9m (2013: £24.6m).
17 . Provisions
2014
Discontinued
£m
Reorganisation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 2.3 3.6 9.5 15.4
Provisions made during the year – 2.9 0.2 3.1
Provisions released during the year – – (2.3) (2.3)
Utilised during the year – (5.9) (2.6) (8.5)
Transferred to accruals and other payables – – (0.1) (0.1)
Currency translation 0.2 (0.1) (0.1) –
End of year 2.5 0.5 4.6 7.6
Non-current – – 3.4 3.4
Current 2.5 0.5 1.2 4.2
2.5 0.5 4.6 7.6
2013
Discontinued
£m
Reorganisation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 2.3 5.3 12.7 20.3
Provisions made during the year – 2.3 2.2 4.5
Provisions released during the year – – (5.9) (5.9)
Utilised during the year – (4.4) (2.1) (6.5)
Acquisitions – 1.0 4.1 5.1
Transferred to accruals and other payables – (0.5) (1.5) (2.0)
Currency translation – (0.1) – (0.1)
End of year 2.3 3.6 9.5 15.4
Non-current – – 3.1 3.1
Current 2.3 3.6 6.4 12.3
2.3 3.6 9.5 15.4
Discontinued provisions relate to warranties made on the disposal of Globalpack. Reorganisation provisions are held against 
restructuring and redundancy costs, primarily related to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with 
acquisitions. Other provisions relate primarily to vacant properties, employees’ compensation claims, other claims and product 
warranties. Non-current provisions are generally long-term in nature with uncertain timing of utilisation. The release during the year 
relates mostly to claims and warranty liabilities. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
124
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Employee benefits 
Post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes around the world covering many of its 
employees. The Group also has a number of other post-employment obligations in certain countries, some of which are required 
under local law.
The defined benefit plans are administered by boards of trustees and the assets are held independently from Essentra. The boards of 
trustees comprise member nominated trustees, employer nominated trustees and independent advisory trustees. The articles of the 
plans prohibit a majority on the boards to be established by either the member or employer nominated trustees.
Pension costs of the defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified 
actuaries. Full triennial actuarial valuations were carried out on the principal European defined benefit schemes as at 5 April 2012 and 
annual actuarial valuations are performed on the principal US defined benefit schemes. The assets and liabilities of the defined 
benefit schemes have been updated to the balance sheet date from the most recent actuarial valuations taking account of the 
investment returns achieved by the schemes and the level of contributions.
The principal European defined benefit schemes entitle remaining members to a pension calculated on 1.25% or 2% of their capped 
final pensionable pay multiplied by the number of pensionable years of service. Some members have historical entitlements to accrual 
rates of 1.67%-1.9% and 3% for certain tranches of their service. The principal US defined benefit schemes entitle certain participating 
employees to annuity benefits equal to 50% of final average pensionable salary, reduced for years of service less than 30, and other 
participating employees to annuity benefits equal to $49 per month for each year of service.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
2014
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts expensed against operating profit
Defined contribution schemes 4.9 3.2
Defined benefit schemes – service cost 2.2 2.4
Defined benefit schemes – settlement gain (1.4) –
Other post-employment obligations 0.5 –
Total operating expense 6.2 5.6
Amounts included as finance (income) / expense
Net interest on defined benefit scheme assets (note 4) (1.2) (0.8)
Net interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities (note 4) 0.6 0.9
Net finance (income)/expense (0.6) 0.1
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Return on defined benefit scheme assets excluding amounts in net finance income (16.7) (10.8)
Impact of changes in assumptions and experience to the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities 32.5 (0.4)
Remeasurement of defined benefit schemes 15.8 (11.2)
During the year, an offer to settle the pension obligations was made by the US board of trustees to deferred members of the US 
pension schemes. A settlement gain has been recognised in profit or loss relating to those members who accepted the offer.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Employee benefits continued
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were:
Europe
2014 
US Europe
2013 
US
Increase in salaries (pre-2010)
1
3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Increase in salaries (post-2010)
1
3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Increase in pensions
1
at RPI capped at 5% 3.00% n/a 3.30% n/a
at CPI capped at 5% 2.10% n/a 2.40% n/a
at CPI minimum 3%, capped at 5% 3.20% n/a 3.30% n/a
at CPI capped at 2.5% 1.70% n/a 1.90% n/a
Discount rate 3.70% 4.00% 4.50% 4.90%
Inflation rate 2.60% n/a 2.90% n/a
1
  For service prior to April 2010, pension at retirement is linked to salary at retirement. For service after April 2010, pension is linked to salary at April 2010 
with annual increases capped at 3%
Due to the timescale covered, the assumptions applied may not be borne out in practice. 
The life expectancy assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations at the year end are:
Europe
2014
US Europe
2013
US
Male retiring today at age 65 22.4 21.6 22.3 19.3
Female retiring today at age 65 24.7 23.8 24.7 21.1
Male retiring in 20 years at age 65 24.3 23.3 24.2 19.3
Female retiring in 20 years at age 65 26.6 25.5 26.5 21.1
The allocation of assets between different classes of investment is reviewed regularly and is a key factor in the trustees’ investment 
policies. The allocation of assets is arrived at taking into consideration current market conditions and trends, the size of potential returns 
relative to investment risk and the extent to which asset realisation needs to match liability maturity. There are risks underlying these 
considerations. If asset returns fall below the returns required for scheme assets to match the present value of scheme liabilities, a 
scheme deficit results. Persistent deficits represent an obligation the Group has to settle through increased cash contributions. If asset 
maturities are not properly matched with liability maturities, there is also the risk that the Group could be required to make unplanned 
short-term cash contributions to resolve resulting liquidity issues. Scheme assets are invested by the trustees in asset classes and markets 
that are considered to be reasonably liquid, so this matching and liquidity risk is considered to be sufficiently mitigated.
The fair value of scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change 
before they are realised, and the present value of the scheme liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods 
and are therefore inherently uncertain, are: 
2014
Europe  
£m
US 
£m
Total 
£m
Equities 31% 62.6 61% 26.4 89.0
Corporate bonds 18% 35.3 36% 15.4 50.7
Government bonds 51% 103.8 0% – 103.8
Other 0% 0.9 3% 1.2 2.1
Fair value of scheme assets 202.6 43.0 245.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (182.5) (62.6) (245.1)
Net retirement benefit assets / (obligations) 20.1 (19.6) 0.5
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 2013
Europe  
£m
US 
£m
Total 
£m
Equities 51% 91.8 62% 28.5 120.3
Corporate bonds 17% 31.4 34% 15.5 46.9
Government bonds 31% 56.4 0% – 56.4
Other 1% 1.2 4% 1.8 3.0
Fair value of scheme assets 180.8 45.8 226.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (158.9) (54.4) (213.3)
Net retirement benefit assets / (obligations) 21.9 (8.6) 13.3
The equity, corporate bond and government bond assets are either direct investments or investments made via a managed fund for 
those asset classes. All of these assets have a quoted market price in an active market. The other asset class relates primarily to 
property and hedge funds, which are valued at their cumulative unit offer price. No direct investment in property is held. No plan 
assets are invested directly in the shares of Essentra plc.
The average expected duration of the Group’s European defined benefit liability at 31 December 2014 is 20 years (2013: 20 years). The 
average expected duration of the Group’s US defined benefit liability at 31 December 2014 is 13.3 years (2013: 12.3 years).
The Group’s contributions to its defined benefit schemes are determined in consultation with trustees, taking into consideration 
actuarial advice, investment conditions and other local conditions and practices. In 2015, the Group expects to make defined benefit 
contributions of £1.5m to its European schemes and $3.1m to its US schemes.
Movement in fair value of post-employment obligations during the year
2014 2013
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
assets 
£m
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
liabilities 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
assets
£m
Defined 
benefit 
scheme 
liabilities
£m
Other 
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 226.6 (213.3) (2.7) 10.6 207.2 (211.1) – (3.9)
Service cost and administrative expense (0.8) (1.4) (0.5) (2.7) (0.7) (1.7) – (2.4)
Employer contributions 4.3 0.1 0.8 5.2 8.5 – – 8.5
Employee contributions 0.3 (0.3) – – 0.4 (0.4) – –
Return on plan assets excluding amounts 
in net finance income 16.7 – – 16.7 10.8 – – 10.8
Actuarial (losses) / gains arising from 
change in financial assumptions – (27.9) – (27.9) – 3.6 – 3.6
Actuarial losses arising from change in 
demographic assumptions – (4.2) – (4.2) – (2.6) – (2.6)
Actuarial losses arising from experience 
adjustment – (0.4) – (0.4) – (0.6) – (0.6)
Finance income / (expense) 10.3 (9.7) – 0.6 9.2 (9.3) – (0.1)
Benefits paid (8.0) 8.0 – – (7.3) 7.3 – –
Settlements (6.4) 7.8 – 1.4 – – – –
Currency translation 2.6 (3.8) 0.2 (1.0) (1.5) 1.5 – –
Business combination – – – – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Other – – – – – – (1.6) (1.6)
End of year 245.6 (245.1) (2.2) (1.7) 226.6 (213.3) (2.7) 10.6
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
127
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Employee benefits continued
Sensitivity
For the significant assumptions used in determining defined benefit costs and liabilities, the following sensitivity analysis gives the 
estimate of the impact on the income statement and balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Scheme liabilities Annual service cost
Europe
£m
US
£m
Total
£m
Europe
£m
US
£m
Total
£m
0.5% decrease in the discount rate (17.5) (4.4) (21.9) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
1.0% increase in the rate of inflation (13.1) n/a (13.1) – n/a –
1.0% increase in rate of salary / pension increases (6.8) (0.4) (7.2) – – –
1 year increase in life expectancy (4.7) (1.7) (6.4) – – –
0.5% increase in the discount rate 15.3 3.9 19.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
1.0% decrease in rate of salary / pension increases 5.9 0.4 6.3 0.1 – 0.1
1.0% decrease in the rate of inflation 10.5 n/a 10.5 0.1 n/a 0.1
Share-based incentives
Essentra operates equity-settled share-based incentive plans for its Executive Directors and employees. The total expense in respect of these 
plans during the year was £6.8m (2013: £5.1m). Details of these plans are set out below: 
Share options outstanding
 
2014
At 1 Jan 
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Granted 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercised 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
At 31 Dec 
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercisable 
at 31 Dec 
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
LTIP Part A 4,348,939 325.1p 358,711 485.8p (335,307) 224.4p (1,512,454) 224.4p 2,859,889 428.6p 783,017 203.2
LTIP Part B 3,220,308 – 873,135 – (161,596) – (602,562) – 3,329,285 – – –
DASB 428,090 – 150,023 – (18,850) – (135,094) – 424,169 – – –
SAYE 3 year plan 726,847 354.5p 256,447 545.2p (102,860) 255.6p (318,601) 255.6p 561,833 533.8p – –
SAYE 5 year plan 299,060 279.9p 114,794 469.5p (41,186) 248.1p (27,530) 248.1p 345,138 399.8p – –
US SAYE 2 year plan – – 52,134 716.1p (166) 716.1p – – 51,968 716.1p – –
9,023,244 1,805,244 (659,965) (2,596,241) 7,572,282 783,017
 
 
2013
At 1 Jan 2013
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Granted 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercised 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
At 31 Dec 
2013
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercisable 
at 31 Dec 
2013
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
LTIP Part A 6,000,792 252.4p 483,069 692.0p (203,030) 414.0p (1,931,892) 181.7p 4,348,939 325.1p 857,930 184.1p
LTIP Part B 3,536,890 – 1,024,549 – (423,069) – (918,062) – 3,220,308 – 229,235 –
DASB 507,219 – 167,404 – (67,630) – (178,903) – 428,090 – – –
SAYE 3 year plan 900,990 232.6p 256,578 495.0p (51,511) 354.2p (379,210) 159.9p 726,847 354.5p – – 
SAYE 5 year plan 568,903 190.8p 67,032 495.0p (30,091) 330.4p (306,784) 156.7p 299,060 279.9p – –
11,514,794 1,998,632 (775,331) (3,714,851) 9,023,244 1,087,165
The exercise prices of options outstanding at the end of the year range from nil to 876.0p.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
128
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 848.1p (2013: 712.5p). The following 
table shows the weighted average fair value at the date of grant for options granted during the year:
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year  
plan
SAYE  
5 year 
plan
Year ended 31 December 2014 182.8p 635.6p 814.0p 339.6p 267.6p
Year ended 31 December 2013 141.4p 534.7p 625.9p 210.4p 261.0p
Fair value model inputs for share options awarded
2014
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year  
plan
SAYE  
5 year  
plan
Weighted average fair value at grant 99.3p 470.5p 631.2p 196.1p 173.2p
Weighted average share price at grant 428.6p 615.6p 668.9p 699.2p 518.9p
Weighted average exercise price 428.6p – – 533.7p 399.8p
Weighted average volatility 33.6% 28.3% 27.2% 26.8p 32.6p
Weighted average dividend yield 2.80% 2.07% 2.02% 1.91% 2.54%
Weighted risk free rate 1.26% 0.76% 0.64% 0.93% 2.27%
Expected employee retention rates 89.9% 100.0% 100.0% 75.0% 75.0%
Expected term 3.29 years 3.01 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 5.00 years
Valuation model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial Binomial
2013
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year  
plan
SAYE  
5 year  
plan
Weighted average fair value at grant 80.2p 370.0p 458.7p 142.4p 134.1p
Weighted average share price at grant 325.1p 476.8p 490.4p 471.5p 375.8p
Weighted average exercise price 325.1p – – 354.5p 279.9p
Weighted average volatility 36.1% 31.4% 31.4% 32.4% 34.9%
Weighted average dividend yield 3.14% 2.42% 2.36% 2.42% 2.84%
Weighted risk free rate 1.43% 0.84% 0.78% 1.10% 2.33%
Expected employee retention rates 89.8% 100.0% 100.0% 75.0% 75.0%
Expected term 3.37 years 3.03 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 5.00 years
Valuation model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial Binomial
Where relevant, market conditions are taken into account in determining the fair value of the awards at grant date. The three year 
average historic volatility at grant date has been used as the volatility input for the LTIP Part A, LTIP Part B, DASB and SAYE 3 year 
awards, and the five year average historic volatility at grant date has been used as the volatility input for the SAYE 5 year award.
2014 and 2013
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year  
plan
SAYE  
5 year  
plan
Contractual life 3 – 10 years 3 – 6 years 3 years 3 years 5 years
Details of the vesting conditions of the LTIP Part A, LTIP Part B and DASB share option schemes are set out in the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee on pages 66 to 86 .
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
129
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 19. Issued share capital
2014
£m
2013
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p (2013: 25p) each 66.0 60.1
Number of ordinary shares in issue
Beginning of year 240,469,409 219,326,796
Issue of shares during the year 23,659,761 21,142,613
End of year 264,129,170 240,469,409
At 31 December 2014 the Company held 3,449,685 (2013: 5,305,790) of its own shares in treasury.
 
In 2014, to fund the acquisition of Clondalkin (see note 23), Essentra plc issued a total of 23,659,761 new ordinary shares of 25p each at 
a price of 713.5p per share, raising gross proceeds of £168.8m. Issue costs of £1.2m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over 
the nominal value of shares issued is recorded in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.  
As at 31 December 2014, the proceeds from the placing were used to repay the amounts drawn under the revolving credit facilities.
In 2013, to fund the acquisition of Contego, Essentra issued plc a total of 21,142,613 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 675p 
per share, raising gross proceeds of £142.7m. Issue costs of £1.0m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value 
of shares issued is recorded in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
20. Reserves
Within retained earnings the Company has deducted the value of own shares purchased for an employee trust and treasury shares 
held by the Company with a total cost of £34.7m (2013: £30.4m). 
Employee trust shares are ordinary shares of the Company held in an employee benefit trust. The purpose of this trust is to hold 
shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to Executive Directors and employees relating to deferred share awards and options 
granted under the Company’s share-based incentive plans. Full details are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee  
on pages 66 to 86. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in these financial statements. 
At 31 December 2014 the trust held 3,379,383 (2013: 2,484,586) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an  
aggregate nominal value of £0.8m (2013: £0.6m) and market value of £24.7m (2013: £21.3m).
The Company holds 3,449,685 (2013: 5,305,790) ordinary shares with a nominal value of £0.9m (2013: £1.3m) in treasury. This 
represents 1.3% (2013: 2.2%) of the number of ordinary shares in issue.
The other reserve relates to the Group reorganisation, which took place as part of the demerger from Bunzl plc. It represents the 
difference between Essentra plc’s share capital and Essentra International Limited’s share capital and share premium on 6 June 2005 
and is not distributable.
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
130
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 21. Analysis of net debt
1 Jan  
2014
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
31 Dec  
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 42.0 (15.5) – – 26.5
Short-term bank deposits and investments 2.1 17.4 – – 19.5
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 44.1 1.9 – – 46.0
Debt due within one year (6.5) 3.8 0.1 (3.2) (5.8)
Debt due after one year (254.7) 158.1 (4.0) (1.7) (102.3)
Net debt (217.1) 163.8 (3.9) (4.9) (62.1)
The non-cash movements represent the amortisation of prepaid facility fees and the increase in net debt from loans acquired.  
The net debt amount presented above includes the effect of £1.9m prepaid facility fees on the Group’s 5-year revolving credit  
facility, which are presented within long-term receivables. 
1 Jan  
2013
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
31 Dec 
2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 40.2 2.3 (0.5) – 42.0
Short-term bank deposits and investments 1.2 1.2 (0.3) – 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 41.4 3.5 (0.8) – 44.1
Debt due within one year – (0.2) 0.3 (6.6) (6.5)
Debt due after one year (204.9) (37.5) 0.9 (13.2) (254.7)
Net debt (163.5) (34.2) 0.4 (19.8) (217.1)
The non-cash movement is the amortisation of prepaid facility fees, acquisition of debt through business combinations and 
movement of debt due after one year to debt due within one year.
22. Commitments 
Operating leases
At 31 December Essentra had the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Payable within one year 7.2 7.0
Payable between one and five years 19.2 18.0
Payable after five years 11.7 11.4
38.1 36.4
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
131
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 23. Acquisitions 
2014 acquisitions: Abric
On 16 December 2014, Essentra acquired 100% of the share capital of the major operating subsidiaries of Abric Berhad (“Abric”). Abric 
is a global manufacturer and distributor of security sealing products and solutions for use in a diverse range of growing end-markets 
(including healthcare, manufacturing, energy, retail, transportation and automotive), and is reported under the Component & 
Protection Solutions division. The acquisition of Abric expanded the product range and customer base of the Component Distribution 
businesses and extended the division’s geographical presence primarily in Asia Pacific.
On acquisition the assets and liabilities of the business acquired were adjusted to reflect their fair values to Essentra. Due to the timing 
of the transaction, the fair value adjustments are provisional and subject to finalisation for up to one year from the date of 
acquisition. The Group’s revenue and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items had the acquisition been completed 
on 1 January 2014 are currently being assessed, and therefore it is impracticable to disclose this information as at the date of these 
financial statements.
Related acquisition expenses of £1.5m were recognised in the income statement in exceptional operating items.
A summary of the acquisition of Abric is detailed below:
Fair value of 
assets/(liabilities) 
acquired
£m
Property, plant and equipment 4.2
Inventories 3.0
Receivables 3.3
Cash and cash equivalents 1.8
Deferred tax (2.5)
Payables (2.8)
Borrowings (3.8)
3.2
Customer relationships 10.4
Goodwill 11.9
Consideration 25.5
Satisfied by:
Initial cash consideration 25.3
Deferred consideration 0.2
Cash consideration 25.3
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (1.8)
Net cash flow in respect of the acquisition 23.5
Property, plant and equipment, inventories, receivables and payables were all reassessed to their fair value. The gross contractual 
amount receivable of the receivables was £3.7m.
Goodwill represents the expected operating synergies and financial synergies, and the value of an assembled workforce. Goodwill is not 
deductible for tax purposes. The adjustment to deferred tax is the tax effect of recognising customer relationships and other intangible 
assets and the tax effect of the fair value adjustments above. 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 23. Acquisitions continued
2014 acquisitions: Kelvindale
On 12 May 2014, Essentra acquired 100% of the share capital of Kelvindale Products Pty Limited (“Kelvindale”) for £2.6m (net of cash 
acquired). Kelvindale is a manufacturer and distributor of an extensive range of plastic protection and finishing products, and is 
reported under Component & Protection Solutions. The acquisition provides a compelling entry point for the Group into the Australian 
market. The amounts of assets and liabilities acquired were not material.
Relevant previous acquisitions
During 2014, Essentra reassessed the fair value adjustments made in respect of Contego Healthcare Limited (“Contego”) which was 
acquired on 30 April 2013, and made changes to certain accruals, property, plant and equipment, and deferred tax assets. The impact 
on goodwill is an increase of £1.7m.
In addition, Essentra reassessed the fair value adjustments made in respect of Dakota and Mesan, which were also acquired in 2013.  
In respect of the acquisition of Dakota, some changes were made to certain accruals and adjustments to the fair value of receivables 
and inventories. These adjustments were insignificant individually and in aggregate.
2015 acquisitions: Clondalkin
On 30 January 2015, Essentra acquired the entire Specialist Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group (“Clondalkin SPD”) from an 
affiliate of Warburg Pincus. Clondalkin is a global provider of speciality secondary packaging solutions for the pharmaceutical and 
health & personal care industries. With 24 facilities in North America and Europe, the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD significantly 
enhances Essentra’s existing geographic presence in healthcare packaging and, through leveraging the combined footprint of both 
businesses, will allow the Group to further exploit both existing, and attractive new growth opportunities. Clondalkin SPD’s product 
portfolio of folding carton, product literature and labels is complementary to the Group’s current packaging and authentication 
capabilities, therefore broadening the range and innovation offered to customers.
On acquisition the assets and liabilities of the business acquired were adjusted to reflect their fair values to Essentra. Due to the timing 
of the transaction, the purchase price allocations and fair value adjustments are in progress at the time of this report.
The consideration of £309.4m was funded in part by a placing of 23,659,761 new ordinary shares, and the balance is funded from 
existing bank facilities. As at 31 December 2014, the proceeds from the placing were used to repay the amounts drawn under the 
revolving credit facilities.
Related acquisition expenses of £5.3m were recognised in the income statement in exceptional operating items.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
133
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 24. Dividends
Per share Total
2014 
p
2013 
p
2014
£m
2013
£m
2013 interim: paid 28 October 2013 4.8 11.2
2013 final: paid 2 May 2014 10.6 24.8
2014 interim: paid 30 October 2014 5.7 13.3
2014 proposed final: payable 1 May 2015 12.6 32.4
18.3 15.4 45.7 36.0
25. Transactions with related parties
During 2014, the Filters business in Jordan was disposed of to the minority shareholder who was also a director of the business,  
for a consideration of US$50,000. A loss on disposal of £0.4m arose from the transaction. Other than this transaction and the 
compensation of key management (note 6), Essentra has not entered into any material transactions with related parties during 2014.
On 3 July 2013, Essentra acquired a further 14.545% of the share capital of Filthai Company Limited (“Filthai”) from the minority 
shareholders for a cash consideration of £1.9m. Other than the acquisition of further shares in Filthai and the compensation of key 
management, Essentra did not enter into any material transactions with related parties during the prior year.
26. Parent company
Essentra plc is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates as  
the ultimate parent company of the Essentra Group. Its registered office is Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes  
MK9 1AU, United Kingdom. The principal subsidiary undertakings of Essentra plc are listed in note 10 to the Essentra plc company 
financial statements.
27 . Adjusted measures
Management reviews the adjusted operating profit and operating cash flow as measures of the performance of the business. 
Adjusted operating profit is stated before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items which are considered not relevant 
to measuring the performance of the business. Operating cash flow is adjusted operating profit before depreciation, share option 
expense and other non-cash items, less working capital movements and net capital expenditure as shown below:
 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Operating profit 108.8 97.0
Intangible amortisation 17.5 14.2
Exceptional operating items 16.2 19.2
Adjusted operating profit 142.5 130.4
Depreciation 27.2 26.7
Share option expense 6.8 5.1
Other non-cash items (11.0) (6.0)
Working capital movements (25.4) (5.3)
Net capital expenditure (33.1) (43.7)
Operating cash inflow 107.0 107.2
28. Post balance sheet events
On 30 January 2015, Essentra acquired the entire Specialist Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group (“Clondalkin SPD”) from an 
affiliate of Warburg Pincus. Further details are included in note 23.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 29. Additional segmental analysis
With effect from 1 January 2015, Essentra has implemented a new organisation structure, comprising four strategic business units. 
Going forward, the Components, Speciality Tapes and Security businesses will form a strategic business unit named Distribution. The 
Pipe Protection Technologies, Porous Technologies and Extrusion businesses together will form Speciality Technologies. The packaging 
and authentication solutions businesses within the previous Packaging & Securing Solutions division and the Clondalkin SPD business 
acquired on 30 January 2015 (see note 23) will form Health & Personal Care Packaging. The existing Filter Products division will remain 
as a separate strategic business unit.
In conjunction with the structural change, with effect from 1 January 2015 Essentra has also implemented a revised methodology for 
allocation of certain functional costs such as finance, human resources, legal and IT, as well as costs relating to management of the 
strategic business units and regions.
2014 results under the new organisational structure are shown below:
Distribution
£m
Health & 
Personal Care 
Packaging
£m
Filter Products
£m
Specialist 
Technologies
£m
Eliminations
£m
Central  
Services
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 246.6 165.9 291.4 161.8 – – 865.7
Intersegment revenue 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.3 (1.2) – –
Total revenue 246.9 166.4 291.5 162.1 (1.2) – 865.7
Operating profit / (loss) before 
intangible amortisation and 
exceptional operating items 57.6 30.1 39.0 29.8 – (14.0) 142.5
Intangible amortisation (8.4) (7.0) – (2.1) – – (17.5)
Exceptional operating items (4.0) (11.6) (0.4) (0.2) – – (16.2)
Operating profit / (loss) 45.2 11.5 38.6 27.5 – (14.0) 108.8
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
135
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES At 31 December 2014
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertaking 2,10 446.0 439.2
Current assets
Debtors 3 69.2 0.6
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (1.0) (57.7)
Net current assets / (liabilities) 68.2 (57.1)
Non-current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 (101.9) (95.5)
Net assets 412.3 286.6
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 7 66.0 60.1
Merger relief reserve 7,8 298.1 136.4
Capital redemption reserve 8 0.1 0.1
Profit and loss account 8 48.1 90.0
Shareholders’ funds: equity interests 412.3 286.6
The Company financial statements on pages 136 to 141 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2015 and were signed 
on its behalf by:
Colin Day   Matthew Gregory
Chief Executive   Group Finance Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
136
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET A. Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and applicable UK accounting standards. 
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, Essentra plc (“the Company”) is exempt from the requirements to present its own 
profit and loss account. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, because the published consolidated 
financial statements of the Group include disclosures which comply with the Standard. 
The following principal accounting policies have been consistently applied.
B. Investment in subsidiary undertaking
Investment in subsidiary undertaking is held at cost less any provision for impairment. The Company assesses at each balance sheet 
date whether the investment in its subsidiary has been impaired.
C. Share-based payments
The fair value of share options is measured at grant date. It is recognised as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary  
in which the relevant employees work over the expected period between grant and vesting date of the options, with a corresponding 
adjustment to reserves. 
D. Own shares
The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share incentive plans are 
treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings. The cost of shares held directly (treasury shares)  
is also deducted from retained earnings.
E. Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company (final dividend)  
or paid (interim dividend).
F . Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. Exchange differences arising from 
movements in spot rates are included in the profit and loss account as exchange gains or losses, while those arising from the interest 
differential elements of forward currency contracts are included in external interest income or expense.
G. Financial instruments
Financial instruments are measured initially at fair value. The subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the financial 
instrument. Interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) are held at amortised cost. 
The Company holds financial instruments which hedge the net investments in the foreign operations of its subsidiary undertakings. 
Since the Company does not hold the underlying investments, gains and losses on these instruments are recognised in the profit and 
loss account.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1. Net operating charges 
The auditor was paid £5,000 (2013: £5,000) for the statutory audit of the Company. Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for services 
other than the statutory audit of the Company are disclosed on page 115.
The Directors’ remuneration, which was paid by Essentra International Limited, is disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee on pages 66 to 86.
2. Investments held as fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary 
undertaking
2014
£m
2013
£m
Beginning of year 439.2 291.5
Additions 6.8 147.7
End of year 446.0 439.2
3. Debtors
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings 68.5 –
Corporate taxes 0.7 0.6
69.2 0.6
4. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2014
£m
2013
£m
Accruals and deferred income 1.0 1.0
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings – 56.7
1.0 57.7
5. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2014
£m
2013
£m
Loan Notes 101.9 95.5
6. Maturity of financial liabilities
Non bank loans
2014
 £m
2013
 £m
Debt can be analysed as falling due:
Between one and five years 51.1 47.9
More than five years 50.8 47.6
101.9 95.5
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
138
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES
NOTES 7 . Issued share capital
2014
£m
2013
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p (2013: 25p) each 66.0 60.1
Number of ordinary shares in issue
Beginning of year 240,469,409 219,326,796
Issue of shares during the year 23,659,761 21,142,613
End of year 264,129,170 240,469,409
At 31 December 2014 the Company held 3,449,685 (2013: 5,305,790) of its own shares in treasury.
 
In 2014, Essentra plc issued a total of 23,659,761 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 713.5p per share, raising gross proceeds 
of £168.8m. Issue costs of £1.2m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of shares issued is recorded  
in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
In 2013, Essentra plc issued a total of 21,142,613 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 675p per share, raising gross proceeds  
of £142.7m. Issue costs of £1.0m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of shares issued is recorded  
in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
139
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 8. Movements on reserves
Profit and loss account
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Own  
shares
£m
1 January 2014 136.4 0.1 120.4 (30.4)
Loss for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2.6)
Issue of shares 161.7
Acquisition of employee benefit trust shares (12.3)
Shares issued to satisfy employee share option exercises (8.0) 8.0
Share options exercised 4.3
Share-based payments 6.8
Dividends paid (38.1)
31 December 2014 298.1 0.1 82.8 (34.7)
Profit and loss account
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Own  
shares
£m
1 January 2013 – 0.1 155.6 (25.9)
Loss for the year ended 31 December 2013 (2.0)
Issue of shares 136.4
Acquisition of employee benefit trust shares (16.3)
Shares issued to satisfy employee share option exercises (11.8) 11.8
Share options exercised 4.7
Share-based payments 5.1
Dividends paid (31.2)
31 December 2013 136.4 0.1 120.4 (30.4)
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented 
in these financial statements. The loss attributable to equity holders included in the accounts of the Company is £2.6m (2013: £2.0m).
Included in retained earnings are accumulated share-based payments of £29.3m (2013: £22.5m) which are credited directly to reserves 
and are not distributable. Full details of these share-based payments are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on 
pages 66 to 86 and also on pages 128 to 129. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
140
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 9. Dividends
Per share Total
2014
p
2013 
p
2014
£m
2013
£m
2013 interim: paid 28 October 2013 4.8 11.2
2013 final: paid 2 May 2014 10.6 24.8
2014 interim: paid 30 October 2014 5.7 13.3
2014 proposed final: payable 1 May 2015 12.6 32.4
18.3 15.4 45.7 36.0
10. Principal subsidiary undertakings 
Country of incorporation
Essentra International Limited UK
Essentra Finance Limited UK
ESNT International Limited UK
Essentra Components Limited UK
ESNT Packaging & Securing Solutions Limited UK
Essentra Packaging Limited UK
Essentra Corp US
Essentra Porous Technologies Corp US
Essentra Holdings Corp US
ESNT US Holdings Inc US
Essentra Components Inc US
Essentra International GmbH Germany
PT Essentra Indonesia
Essentra BV The Netherlands
Essentra Pte Limited Singapore
The companies named above are the principal subsidiary undertakings of Essentra plc and are included in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group. The wholly owned investments in the companies above relate to ordinary shares or common stock. The principal 
country in which each company operates is the country of incorporation.
Essentra International Limited is the only direct subsidiary of Essentra plc.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
141
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Essentra plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 92 to 141. In our opinion:
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;
 > the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit were as follows.
Identified Risk Our Response
Warranty provisions
Refer to page 60 (Report of the Audit Committee) of  
the 2014 Annual Report, page 104 (accounting policy)  
and page 124 (financial disclosures).
The risk – Group produces a wide range of products and  
operates manufacturing facilities in a number of countries  
which results in them being subject to varying laws, regulation  
and consumer expectation.
Many of the Group’s products are used by its customers  
in creating their end product; if quality issues arise the Group  
may need to make a provision for returns under warranty.  
This risk increases for new products or specifications or  
divisions which may be subject to health and safety regulation. 
Measuring these provisions is a significant judgement and  
is inherently subjective.
In respect of warranty provisions, our procedures included 
critically assessing the methodology used for calculating the 
provision. This included assessing its appropriateness based on  
the historical accuracy of the methodology, comparing actual 
outcomes to provision levels from prior periods and challenging 
the approach taken on significant customer complaints 
outstanding at the year end. We considered changes in market 
conditions, such as new product launches, when setting our 
expectation based on past events. We compared actual warranty 
outflows post year end, where significant, to those expected  
at the balance sheet date. We have considered the adequacy  
of the Group’s disclosures in respect of warranty provisions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
142
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ONLY
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY  Identified Risk Our Response
Carrying amount of trade receivables
Refer to page 59 (Report of the Audit Committee) of  
the 2014 Annual Report, page 104 (accounting policy)  
and pages 105 and 106 (financial disclosures).
The risk – In most of its business lines, the Group has a large 
number of customers which in aggregate have significant 
outstanding balances. However, they do also face some  
customer concentration risk in the Filters and Pipe Protection 
businesses. Further, some of their customers operate in  
countries facing more difficult economic circumstances,  
which exposes the Group to additional bad debt risk. 
Our audit procedures included testing the effectiveness of the 
Group’s controls over the monitoring of receivables and over the 
collection process. We compared cash collections post year end 
to the Group’s expectations at the balance sheet date and 
investigated any significant items that had not been collected. 
We assessed the reasonableness of the provision by comparing 
the ageing of the trade receivables between the current and prior 
period. For the outstanding amounts we considered the location 
of the customer and the externally available market data (such  
as GDP information) for that country to set an expectation of the 
level of provision required (taking changing economic conditions 
into account) and compared our expectation to the Group’s 
provision. For significant overdue receivables we assessed 
available information for the rationale behind the non-payment, 
including checking whether the relevant customers have filed  
for bankruptcy, and considered the appropriateness of including 
these overdue receivables in the provision at year end. We have 
considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the 
degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
Taxation contingencies
Refer to page 59 (Report of the Audit Committee) of  
the 2014 Annual Report, page 104 (accounting policy)  
and page 116 (financial disclosures).
The risk – Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors  
to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues  
and exposures. This is one of the key judgemental areas that  
our audit concentrates on due to the Group operating in a number 
of different tax jurisdictions and the complexities of transfer 
pricing and other international tax legislation.
In this area our audit procedures included an assessment of the 
Group’s tax position on outstanding issues and correspondence  
with the relevant tax authorities. This included the use of our own 
international and local tax specialists to analyse correspondence  
and challenge the assumptions used to determine the requirement 
for any tax provisions. This assessment utilises the tax specialists’ 
knowledge of international and local tax legislation and their past 
experience of the range of possible outcomes. We have considered 
the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of tax and 
uncertain tax positions.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £7 .2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark  
of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 7%. 
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £0.35 million, in addition  
to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
143
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ONLY Audits for Group reporting purposes or specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors at the reporting 
components in the following countries:
Audits for Group reporting purposes Specified risk-focussed audit procedures
United Kingdom (6 sites) United States of America (3 sites)
Brazil (2 sites) India (1 site)
Singapore (2 sites)
Indonesia (1 site)
Turkey (1 site)
Thailand (1 site)
Italy (1 sites)
Hungary (1 site)
United States of America (1 site)
Germany (1 site)
India (1 site)
The components subject to specified risk-focussed audit procedures were not individually financially significant enough to require an 
audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed. 
These Group procedures covered: 
The remaining 33% of Group revenue, 5% of Group profit before tax and 26% of Group net assets is represented by 91 components 
around the world. None of the 91 components represented more than 2.9% of total Group Revenue, 5% of Group profit before tax,  
or 2.9% of Group net assets. For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
144
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ONLY
60%
26%
14%
Audits for Group reporting purposes
Group net assets
Speciﬁed risk focussed audit procedures
Out of Scope
92%
5%
3%
Audits for Group reporting purposes
Group proﬁt before taxation
Speciﬁed risk focussed audit procedures
Out of Scope
56%
33%
11%
Audits for Group reporting purposes
Group revenue
Speciﬁed risk focussed audit procedures
Out of Scope The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit team approved the components’ materiality, which ranged from 
£0.1m to £2.2m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
The Group audit team visited the following locations: United Kingdom and United States. Telephone meetings were also held with the 
component auditors at all locations and the Group audit team attended all component auditor’s clearance meetings at the year end. 
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required 
by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 > we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement 
that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
 > the report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 > the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 > certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 > the directors’ statement, set out on pages 90 of the 2014 Annual Report, in relation to going concern; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 51 and 57 of the 2014 Annual Report relating to the company’s 
compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
145
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ONLY Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91 of the 2014 Annual Report, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the 
scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to Essentra plc’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set 
out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis 
of our opinions.
Mike Barradell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
146
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ONLY Secretary and Registered Office
Jon Green
Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 1AU
Company Number 05444653
www.essentra.com
Financial advisors and stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank
Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2 2DB
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY
Auditor
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5GL
Principal bankers
Bank Of America Merrill Lynch International Limited
2 King Edward Street, London EC1A 1HQ
 
Barclays Bank Plc
Ashton House, 497 Silbury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2LD
 
Citibank NA
Citigroup Centre, Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 6LB
 
DBS Bank Ltd
4th Floor, Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB
 
HSBC Bank Plc
Level 5, Metropolitan House, CBX3, 321 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK29 2GA
 
ING Bank
60 London Wall, London EC2M 5TQ
 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopgate, London EC2M 4RB
Registrar
If you have any questions about your shareholding, please contact, in the first instance:
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH
Telephone 0870 702 0003
Computershare also has an internet facility whereby shareholders in Essentra plc are able to access details of their shareholding.  
You can access this service at www.computershare.com.
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documentation through the post, the Company offers shareholders the option to receive by email, a 
notification that shareholder documents (including the Annual Reports, Notice of Shareholder Meetings, Proxy Forms etc.) are available for 
access on the Company’s website. If you wish to make such an election, you should register online at www.computershare.com. If you have 
already made such an election you need take no further action. Registration is entirely voluntary and you may request a hard copy of the 
shareholder documents or change your election at any time.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
147
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ADVISORS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
ADVISORS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION CREST
Share Settlement System
The Company entered the CREST system on listing and the ordinary shares are available for settlement in CREST. As the membership 
system is voluntary, shareholders not wishing to participate can continue to hold their own share certificates.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Central Milton Keynes, 
Buckinghamshire MK9 2HG on Thursday 23 April 2015 at 12 noon.
Financial calendar 2015
Annual General Meeting 23 April 2015
Final Dividend 1 May 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM FINANCIAL REPORT | 
148 The printer and paper manufacturing 
mill are both accredited with ISO 14001
Environmental Management Systems 
and are both Forest Stewardship 
Council
®
 certified. CPI Colour is also  
a certified CarbonNeutral
®
 company.
Designed and produced by  
Addison Group
www.addison-group.net
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM Essentra plc 
Avebury House
201-249 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 1AU
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0)1908 359100
Facsimile: +44 (0)1908 359120
Email: enquiries@essentra.com
www.essentra.com
