 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORPORATION PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CLEARL Y FOCUSED,
WELL POSITIONED,
ETHICALL Y MINDED.
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC
www.enrc.com
+44 (0) 20 7389 1440 GROUP OVERVIEW
  1 Highlights  
  2 ENRC at a Glance  
  4 Regional Overview 
  6 Chairman’s Statement 
 10 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 
 14 Our Leadership Team 
BUSINESS REVIEW
 20 Key Performance Indicators 
 22 Risk Factors
 24 Operating Review
 30 Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter
 32 Financial Review
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 50 Directors’ Report
 54 Corporate Governance Report
 59 Remuneration Report
 63 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 64 Independent Auditors’ Report
 65 Consolidated Income Statement
 66 Consolidated Balance Sheet
 67 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 68 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
108  Company Independent Auditors’ Report
109  Company Balance Sheet
110  Notes to the Company Financial Statements
RESERVES
112  Ore Reserves/Mineral Resources Estimates
CORPORATE INFORMATION
118 Glossary
121 Units
122 Shareholder Information
CONTENTS
This document includes forward-looking statements that 
reflect the current views of the Group’s management with 
respect to future events. These forward-looking statements 
include matters that are not historical facts or are statements 
regarding the Group’s intentions, beliefs or current 
expectations concerning, among other things, the Group’s 
results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, 
prospects, growth, strategies, and the industries in which 
the Group operates. Forward-looking statements are based 
on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore 
too much reliance should not be placed upon them. Such 
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of 
which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the 
Group’s control. The Group cautions you that forward-looking 
statements are not guarantees of future performance and 
that if risks and uncertainties materialise, or if the 
assumptions underlying any of these statements prove 
incorrect, the Group’s actual results of operations, financial 
condition and liquidity and the development of the industry 
in which the Group operates may materially differ from those 
made in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements 
contained in this document. In addition, even if the Group’s 
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and 
the development of the industry in which the Group operates 
are consistent with the forward-looking statements 
contained in this document, those results or developments 
may not be indicative of results or developments in future 
periods. Except as required by the Listing Rules and 
applicable law, the Group does not undertake any obligation 
to update or change any forward-looking statements to 
reflect events that occur or circumstances that arise after the 
date of this document. HIGHLIGHTS
+
26
%
US$
4, 1 06M
Revenue 2007 Profit before tax 2007
+
36
%
2006 > 2007
US$
1 ,32 1 M
2006 > 2007
(2006 : US$3,256m) (2006 : US$971m)
GROUP OVERVIEW
 ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
+
52
%
US$
1,906M
EBITDA before exceptional 
items 2007 
Profit after tax 2007
+
 9
%
2006 > 2007
US$
81 4M
2006 > 2007
(2006 : US$1,256m)
(2006 : US$686m)
+
7
46%
EBITDA before exceptional 
items margin 2007 
EPS 2007
+
44
%
2006 > 2007
US$
0 . 7 9
Percentage points
(2006 : 39%)
(2006 : US$0.55) CLEARLY FOCUSED
1
Ferroalloy Division
2
Iron Ore Division
3
Alumina and Aluminium 
Division
4
Energy Division
5
The Logistics Division
WHY ARE THESE CHARTS IN ONE FILE?????
THEY SHOULD BE SAVED OUT AS SEPARATE FILES
53
%
24
%
15
%
4
%
4
%
4
%
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
WHY ARE THESE CHARTS IN ONE FILE?????
THEY SHOULD BE SAVED OUT AS SEPARATE FILES
53
%
24
%
15
%
4
%
4
%
4
%
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
WHY ARE THESE CHARTS IN ONE FILE?????
THEY SHOULD BE SAVED OUT AS SEPARATE FILES
53
%
24
%
15
%
4
%
4
%
4
%
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
WHY ARE THESE CHARTS IN ONE FILE?????
THEY SHOULD BE SAVED OUT AS SEPARATE FILES
53
%
24
%
15
%
4
%
4
%
4
%
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
WHY ARE THESE CHARTS IN ONE FILE?????
THEY SHOULD BE SAVED OUT AS SEPARATE FILES
53
%
24
%
15
%
4
%
4
%
4
%
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues Percentage of total revenues
ENRC AT A GLANCE
EBITDA before exceptional  
items US$1,138m
Average number of employees 21,020
EBITDA before exceptional  
items US$448m
Average number of employees 19,420
EBITDA before exceptional  
items US$220m
Average number of employees 13,870
EBITDA before exceptional  
items US$107m
Average number of employees 6,420
EBITDA before exceptional  
items US$44m
Average number of employees 3,200
2
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 In under fifteen years, ENRC has transformed itself into one of the world’s 
largest and fastest-growing natural resources groups, well positioned to take 
a leading role in the global mining industry. Integrating Kazakhstan’s foremost 
mining, processing, power and logistics operations, ENRC is now firmly 
established as a world-class business with 2007 revenue in excess of 
$4 billion, an ongoing investment programme that invested over $900 million 
in 2007 and over 64,000 employees.
The Ferroalloy Division was established in 1995. Its mining operations comprise 
Kazchrome’s Donskoy GOK and, manganese miner, Zhairemsky GOK. The Division 
also includes the Aktobe and Aksu ferroalloy plants and the Akturbo gas-fired 
power station. The Division produces and sells high-carbon ferrochrome, 
medium- and low-carbon ferrochrome and other alloys, including 
ferrosilicochrome, ferrosilicomanganese and ferrosilicon, as well as chrome and 
manganese concentrate. The Division sells its ferroalloys primarily to steel 
producers and sells the remaining chrome and manganese ore to third party 
ferroalloy producers and the chemical industry. The Ferroalloy Division, according 
to estimates, is the world’s largest ferrochrome producer, by chrome content. 
The Iron Ore Division was established in 1996. The Division includes primary 
mining operations that produce iron ore, ancillary mining operations that 
produce limestone, dolomite and bentonite-clay, an iron ore processing plant 
and a power plant. It mines and processes iron ore into iron ore concentrate 
and pellets for sale primarily to steel producers. The Division’s external 
energy needs are provided by the Group’s Energy Division. The Iron Ore 
Division sells much of its iron ore to the Russian steel producer, MMK, under 
a long-term contract. The Iron Ore Division, according to estimates, is the 
sixth largest iron ore exporter by volume in the world.
The Alumina and Aluminium Division was established in 1996. The Division’s 
assets include two bauxite mining units, a limestone mine, an alumina 
refinery and a power station. A new aluminium smelter was commissioned  
in December 2007 with an initial capacity of 62,500 tonnes per annum.  
The Division sells its alumina, which it produces from mined bauxite, 
primarily to the Russian aluminium producer, United Company RUSAL (‘UC 
RUSAL’), under  a long-term contract. The Alumina and Aluminium Division, 
according to estimates, is the fifth largest supplier of traded alumina by 
volume in the world.
The Energy Division was established in 1996. The Division is one of the 
largest producers of electricity and coal in Kazakhstan, accounting for 
approximately 16% of the country’s recorded electricity production in 2007. 
The Division operates through Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC (‘EEC’), and 
includes a hydroelectric power station. The Division supplies electricity and 
coal primarily to the Company’s other divisions (42% of the Division’s 2007 
revenue) as well as to third parties. Within the Division, the coal mine and 
power station supply coal and electricity to each other. The Division also 
purchases electricity for resale from third parties. 
The Logistics Division was established in 1999. The Division provides 
transportation and logistical services to the Group’s primary operating 
divisions (36% of the Division’s 2007 revenue) and to third parties. The 
Division’s operations include three core businesses: freight forwarding; 
railway construction and maintenance; and wagon and locomotive repair.  
In addition, the Division operates a transfer and reloading terminal on the 
Kazakhstan and Chinese border.
 2007 2006
 Production Production
Commodity
iron ore 16,791
kt 
16,113
kt
Iron ore
pellets 8,572
kt 
9,000
kt
 2007 2006
 Production Production
Alumina 1,537
kt 
1,515
kt
Aluminium 12
kt 
n/a
 2007 2006
 Shipments Shipments
Railway
Transport 60,854
kt 
61,700
kt
 2007 2006
 Production Production
Ferroalloys 1,470
kt 
1,398
kt
Chrome ore 3,881
kt 
3,410
kt
 2007 2006
 Production Production
Coal 18,442
kt 
17 ,853
kt
Electricity 12,121
GWh 
1 1,499
GWh
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
3
GROUP OVERVIEW WELL POSITIONED
ENRC benefits from close proximity 
to two key BRIC economies
Providing a captive customer 
base and exposure to rapidly 
growing markets
Ferroalloys  Donskoy Chrome Ore Mines
  Zhairem Mines
  Aktobe Ferroalloy Plant
  Aksu Ferroalloy Plant
Iron ore 
  Sokolov-Sarbai Iron Ore 
Mines
Alumina and  
 Aluminium of Kazakhstan 
  (‘AoK’)
Aluminium  
  Kazakhstan Aluminium 
Smelter (‘KAS’) 
  Turgai Bauxite Mines
Energy  
  Eurasian Energy Company 
(EEC)
Logistics 
 Dostyk
  Principal customers
REGIONAL OVERVIEW
Segment revenue 2007
Segment revenue 2006
Eurasia
Asia Pacific
Europe and Middle East
Rest of world
Segment Revenue 2006 Segment Revenue 2007
53.0%
5.2%
12.4%
29.4%
Segment Revenue 2006 Segment Revenue 2007
52.8%
27.1%
13.8%
6.3%
4
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 With our production centred in Kazakhstan, a powerhouse in Central Asia, we 
are well positioned to extend our strong regional presence as the market for 
natural resources continues to shift eastwards towards Russia and China. 
REGIONAL CONNECTIONS
UZBEKISTAN UZBEKISTAN KYRGYZSTAN KYRGYZSTAN TADJIKISTAN TADJIKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN IRAN IRAN
RUSSIA
MONGOLIA
JAPAN
CHINA
KAZAKHSTAN
MIDDLE EAST MIDDLE EAST
  INDIA
EUROPE EUROPE EUROPE EUROPE
Donskoy Mines
Aktobe Plant
Aksu Plant
EEC 
AoK & KAS 
Zhairem Mines
SEROV
MMK
CheMK
Omsk UC RUSAL
Bagang
Jisco
Dostyk
Turgai Mines
      Sokolov-Sarbai 
Mines
KAZAKHSTAN
CHINA
MONGOLIA
RUSSIA
5
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW 2007 was a year of tremendous achievement for ENRC, culminating in the IPO 
and the opening of the aluminium smelter. Our diversified mix of high-quality 
assets and our integrated operations position us well to rise to the 
opportunities available in our chosen businesses.
Sir David Cooksey non-executive Chairman
OUR MISSION
 ‘ The Group’s mission is to achieve 
growth as a leading natural 
resources group and to enhance 
overall value for its shareholders’
I am delighted to present the first Annual 
Report and Accounts of Eurasian Natural 
Resources Corporation PLC (‘ENRC’), since  
it began trading on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange. The past year has 
been enormously eventful for ENRC, its  
first year as a single operating group. This 
culminated at the end of 2007 with our very 
successful initial public offering (‘IPO’) and 
the formal opening of our new aluminium 
smelter by President Nazarbayev of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan. 
ENRC’s businesses comprise the integrated 
mining, processing and smelting of 
ferroalloys, iron ore, alumina and aluminium, 
together with coal mining, electricity 
generation and logistics to support these 
operations. Our scale ensures that ENRC  
is a substantial participant in world markets. 
We have the advantage of proximity to China 
and Russia, which are two of the world’s 
fastest-growing markets for our products. 
Our vertical integration enables us to be  
an advantaged low cost producer in our 
chosen businesses.
The IPO in early December 2007 was the 
fulfilment of the combined efforts over a 
number of years of a great number of 
employees and advisors, of the Government 
of Kazakhstan and of our Founder 
Shareholders – Mr Patokh Chodiev, Mr Alijan 
Ibragimov and Mr Alexander Machkevitch. To 
all of these people, I would like to extend the 
thanks of the Board for their efforts and for 
making possible the new opportunities 
which are now available to the Group.
Our US$3.1 billion IPO was completed  
and the shares commenced trading on 
12 December 2007 at an offer price of 540p  
a share. This was the largest IPO by funds 
raised by way of ordinary shares on the  
main market of the London Stock Exchange 
in 2007. Our market capitalisation (as at 
31 March 2008) makes us the ninth largest 
listed metals and mining company in the 
world and, on entry, we were the 30th largest 
company in the FTSE 100 Index. Subsequent 
to our IPO we have benefited from some 
particular tailwinds affecting the industry, 
not all of which could have been anticipated: 
substantial interest rate cuts by the US 
Federal Reserve; mergers and acquisitions 
activity in the sector; the South African 
power situation; and various weather events 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007  995 
Ferroalloy Division was established
 996 
Iron Ore Division was established 
through the acquisition of SSGPO
 996 
Alumina and Aluminium Division 
established through the merger of 
several mining and energy-producing 
enterprises
 996 
Energy Division established
1999 
Logistics Division established
2004 
Construction of new aluminium smelter 
commenced
2007 
US$1.5 billion trade finance facility 
secured
2007 
Successful IPO and listing on the London 
Stock Exchange main market
2007 
New smelter opened 
2008 
Entry into FTSE 100 Index
Company Milestones
– particularly affecting ferroalloys and iron 
ore. However, these have all played to the 
Group’s inherent strengths: its diversified, 
high-quality assets, its integrated operating 
capabilities and its strategic location. We 
believe that these factors underpin our 
positive outlook for the next few years.
From an operational perspective, in 2007 we 
benefited from strong demand across our 
range of products and from higher prices, 
notably in ferroalloys and iron ore. 2007 
represented a record year for EBITDA (before 
exceptional items). These results were 
underpinned by the security of our logistics 
and energy supply and by our low cost power 
advantage. Strong growth in our principal 
markets – China and Russia – and the 
strength of demand and pricing in chrome 
ore, ferroalloys and iron ore, have allowed  
us to leverage our management expertise, 
high quality assets, diversified revenues  
and integrated operations. These combined 
events were ideal to deliver improved 
margins and record results.
Nonetheless, whilst we believe that we have 
all of the essential ingredients for success, 
we remain alert to those risks inherent in  
a complacency that can be induced by 
sustained favourable markets. We recognise 
the underlying cyclicality of our industry and 
the challenges of operating in the region as 
well as the prevailing climate of uncertainty 
in the global economy. In response we are 
focused on the rigorous control of costs in 
our businesses, the pursuit of a range of 
asset enhancements, brownfield and 
greenfield growth and merger and acquisition 
opportunities. All of these, accompanied by  
a strong financial discipline, are directed 
towards underpinning the performance of  
the business and building its growth.
RESULTS
The Group’s EBITDA (before exceptional 
items) in 2007 was US$1,906 million 
(2006 : US$1,256 million), growth of 52%. 
Profit before tax (PBT) (before exceptional 
items) in 2007 was US$1,503 million 
(2006 : US$977 million), growth of 54%. 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 
of the Group in 2007 was US$798 million 
(2006 : US$550 million), growth of 45%. 
Cash flow from operations in 2007 was 
US$1,079 million (2006 : US$739 million), 
growth of 46%. 
>
>
>
>
7
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
Our EBITDA and PBT were partially  
offset by exceptional costs associated 
with the IPO of US$182 million (2006 : 
US$6 million). 
EBITDA was US$1,724 million (2006 : 
US$1,250 million) whilst PBT was 
US$1,321 million (2006 : US$971 million).
Underlying the results were the strong 
growth in revenues fuelled by higher 
product prices and, despite strong input 
cost growth in the industry and domestic 
inflation in Kazakhstan, improved margins. 
As announced at the time of the IPO, there is 
no final dividend for 2007 because the IPO 
was so close to the year end. Going forward 
the dividend policy is for our payout to be 
progressive and in line with peers, taking 
into account the investment and growth 
opportunities that are available to us. The 
first dividend to be declared is expected to 
accompany the 2008 half-year results and 
will represent approximately one-third of the 
full year dividend.
The investment required for our announced 
capex pipeline of some US$4.0 billion  
out to 2011 is significantly exceeded by 
accumulating cash flow, added to the IPO 
proceeds and our potential debt capacity. 
The opportunities that our new position has 
opened up, together with our management 
capability and experience offer an exciting 
outlook for 2008 and beyond, but this will 
always be within the confines of rigorous 
financial discipline.
STRATEGY
The IPO was a key milestone in the 
development of the Group. Looking ahead it 
is worth reiterating our five strategic goals:
Maintain and improve on our low cost 
operations.
Continue expansion and development  
of the existing reserves and capacity.
Add value and customer diversity by 
expanding our product portfolio.
Expand our asset portfolio and footprint 
in the region’s natural resources sector 
and within our core commodities 
worldwide.
Commit to high standards of corporate 
responsibility.
Accompanying these strategic goals is our 
commitment to deliver shareholder value as 
we pursue the enhancement and growth of 
the Group. 
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
BOARD MATTERS
I would like to thank Mr Daulet Yergozhin,  
a representative of the Government of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan, who resigned as a 
non-executive Director of ENRC with effect 
from 20 February 2008. In his place and  
at the request of the Prime Minister of 
Kazakhstan, I would like to welcome  
Mr Marat Beketayev, Vice-minister of  
Justice of Kazakhstan, as a non-executive 
Director. This Board change is the result of  
a reallocation of the responsibility for ENRC 
within the Government of Kazakhstan. 
It is very important to me, as it has been to 
the Government of Kazakhstan and to the 
Founder Shareholders since the very outset, 
for the Group to have a strong platform of 
corporate governance. This is an ongoing 
journey for the Group. With the depth of  
the experience and knowledge of the non-
executive directors that are guiding the 
management and affairs of the Group  
and their commitment to Combined Code 
compliance, investors should remain 
confident of a strong commitment to 
corporate governance.
It is crucial for the Group that the Board and 
the management team maintain a strong and 
fruitful working relationship. I anticipate that 
active contributions from the full Board – 
and from the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination 
and the Health, Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committees – will provide 
valuable strategic direction and oversight to 
ENRC as it develops over the coming years.
I would also like to extend the thanks of the 
Board to the Government of the Republic  
of Kazakhstan and to the Founder 
Shareholders. Without the vision and 
support of the Government, the IPO would 
not have been possible. It was important to 
the Government that the IPO was undertaken 
to the highest standards, and in support of 
its broader development objectives. The 
Government’s participation, through its  
two Board representatives, evidences a 
continued support and commitment to  
the Group. In addition, it is thanks to the 
drive and commitment of the Founder 
Shareholders that the IPO was achieved. 
Again we value our continuing relationships 
with the Founder Shareholders and the 
opportunities that these relationships offer 
for the future growth of the Group.
A key focus of the Board for 2008 will be to 
provide support to the senior management 
team of the Group as it addresses the 
challenges of managing a public company, 
continues to grow the existing assets and 
exploits other opportunities available  
to maximise shareholder value. The 
entrepreneurial management, under the 
experienced leadership of Dr Johannes 
Sittard, has delivered much over recent 
years. The Board will continue to work  
with the management to ensure that it can 
meet all its goals, whilst providing proper 
oversight to give the best possible assurance 
to shareholders.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
ENRC is in a long-term, capital-intensive 
business with a resource life of many 
decades and investments that may have 
lives of 30 years or more. It is therefore 
important that the Group remains committed 
to the principles of sustainable development. 
We see sustainable development as a 
positive for our business, opening new 
opportunities and raising performance.
EMPLOYEES
2007 was a year of challenge across the 
Group. The operating Divisions delivered a 
record performance despite challenges from 
the weather and the day-to-day issues that 
beset life on the ground. In addition, the 
delivery of the aluminium smelter, on budget 
and ahead of time, was a significant 
achievement and a testament to the quality 
of operational and project management 
available to us. Further, across the Group  
a large number of people were involved in 
preparing for and delivering the IPO. The 
accomplishments of 2007 reflect on the 
commitment, dedication and hard work of 
our workforce worldwide. On behalf of the 
Board and you, our shareholders, I thank  
our employees for what was achieved in  
an excellent year for the Group.
Our safety performance in 2007 was 
disappointing and fell short of expectations. 
The rate of reportable accidents fell, however, 
tragically there was a rise in fatalities to 15 
from 11 in 2006. Health and safety is a key 
focus for the Group and we have intensified 
training and invested in infrastructure to 
improve our safety record. To drive this we 
have a Board committee dedicated to health 
8
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 and safety. In addition we introduced  
a position of Group Safety Officer and  
are undertaking a thorough review of  
procedures and standards, implementation 
and adherence.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND 
OUTLOOK
Since the year end we have completed  
the acquisition of a controlling interest  
in the Russian-based Serov group (‘Serov’), 
the Group’s first acquisition outside of 
Kazakhstan. We believe that the acquisition 
of Serov will help reinforce the market 
position of the Group in the ferrochrome 
industry and in the region. In addition, the 
acquisition will allow the Group to benefit 
from further vertical integration within the 
ferroalloys business and will provide a strong 
platform for ENRC in Russia.
Recently there was some market speculation 
following the release of the 2007 financial 
results of Kazakhmys PLC, concerning  
a possible combination with ENRC. In 
accordance with our legal obligations  
we made a statement on 12 March 2008 
confirming that we had engaged in an 
informal dialogue with Kazakhmys PLC in 
relation to a possible transaction. This is only 
one of a number of strategic opportunities 
that we are evaluating with a view to creating 
further shareholder value. We expect to 
announce our intentions with respect  
to the aforementioned opportunity on or  
before 16 May 2008 as requested by the 
Takeover Panel.
At the end of March 2008, we completed  
the listing of ENRC’s ordinary shares on the 
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (‘KASE’). There 
were no new shares issued in connection 
with this listing. We believe that the listing 
will enable us to access a wider investment 
base in Kazakhstan and will further efforts  
to develop Kazakhstan’s capital markets.
The Kazakhstan economy remains robust, 
notwithstanding problems in the banking 
sector that surfaced in mid-2007. 
Expectations for 2008 are for around 5%–6% 
real GDP growth, although certain sectors, 
construction and banking among them, are 
likely to remain weak. Whilst economic 
growth may be slower than in recent years, 
the fiscal position, foreign currency reserves 
and the strength of the oil and mining 
sectors differentiate Kazakhstan from other 
emerging markets in which economic crises 
have occurred in recent years. However, 
domestic inflation remains a big challenge, 
with a much higher than expected outturn  
for 2007, and is a key focus for us in 
managing our Kazakhstani tenge cost  
base through 2008.
For the mining sector as a whole the world 
economic outlook will weigh on expectations 
for 2008. ENRC, with its greater focus on 
China and Russia, expects the latent 
structural demand in these markets, from 
both industry and consumers, and with 
accompanying domestic supply issues, to 
mitigate any slowdown in demand from the 
United States and Europe. In addition, for the 
industry, there are issues over the longer-
term growth potential of supply and of 
structural deficits affecting a broad range of 
minerals. Day-to-day there are also practical 
issues across the metals and mining industry 
as to shortages of equipment, infrastructure, 
people and power. Despite these conditions, 
we believe that with its ‘Tier 1’ assets, its 
captive, energy and logistics capabilities, 
the Group is well positioned to rise to the 
opportunities available and to manage the 
challenges of this environment.
Sir David Cooksey
Non-executive Chairman
25 April 2008
9
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC delivered record results in 2007 . Buoyant markets for ferroalloys and 
iron ore were complemented by the strength and breadth of the business. 
The outlook for 2008 is for a very strong performance in our core 
commodities and principal markets, tempered by higher costs.
Dr Johannes Sittard Chief Executive Officer
OUR VALUES
 Teamwork: We empower our people 
 to work together effectively, sharing 
accountability, responsibility and reward.
 Enterprise: We use our capital and strong 
cash flow to take bold, decisive and  
fast action.
 Adaptability: We adapt what we produce 
and how we work to the needs of our 
customers.
 Quality: We do things right first time to  
the highest professional standards.
 Integrity: We adhere strictly to ethical  
and transparent business practices, within 
a unified culture of trust and openness.
 Partnership: We work ‘smart’, forging  
long-term, strategic alliances with key 
partners.
 Transformation: All these values are brought to 
bear in transforming the assets.
>
>
>
>
>
>
2007 was a year of tremendous success for 
ENRC and its stakeholders. The Group’s 
record results are a testament to the  
strength and breadth of our businesses, 
most specifically, our high quality assets, 
diversified revenue base and fully integrated 
energy and logistics capabilities. In addition 
our success is a credit to the operational 
management team in Kazakhstan and all of 
the employees, to whom we offer our sincere 
thanks for their efforts. Whilst we were 
helped by strong chrome ore, ferroalloys  
and iron ore prices we faced weaker pricing 
conditions in alumina and aluminium as  
well as significant cost pressures across  
our operations.
As the Chief Executive Officer of ENRC I am 
pleased that our senior management team 
has worked together so well. In little more 
than a year we have worked hard to bring to 
fruition the IPO of the Group and to operate 
as a Listed company. This remains an 
ongoing journey, to be helped by the  
advice and guidance of the Board. I am  
also delighted with the high calibre of 
non-executive Directors that have been 
appointed to the Board. The Board has very 
quickly become engaged with the Group 
under the leadership of our Chairman,  
Sir David Cooksey.
The Group’s management team, with the 
support of the Founder Shareholders and the 
Government of Kazakhstan, has achieved  
the current standing and strength of ENRC 
through its entrepreneurial culture and drive 
for growth. For the management, with the 
support of the Board, the challenge is to 
maintain these strengths, whilst working 
within the requirements of public company 
corporate governance. For management and 
the Board, the aim of achieving growth in 
shareholder value aligns our interests with 
those of our new shareholders.
CHIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
 0
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 In the short term, the opportunities to reduce 
costs or increase productivity will be limited. 
Management is committed to implementing 
cost control initiatives; however, these will 
be medium-term programmes across the 
breadth of our business and we anticipate 
that the full realisation of these benefits will 
take two to four years to be fully realised.
In 2008 we will commence a number of 
specific initiatives:
A review, conducted by external 
consultants, of productivity and 
de-bottlenecking in a number of our 
businesses.
A review of management structures to 
identify greater efficiencies.
A spin off of non-core businesses. 
Investment to replace imported or 
purchased materials; for example,  
caustic soda.
In addition ENRC will, over the medium  
term, seek to improve volume throughout, 
increasing the productivity of our fixed 
assets and investing in equipment 
modernisation to reduce maintenance 
support.
CAPITAL ExPENDITURE
Capital expenditure in 2007 amounted to 
US$911 million (2006 : US$563 million); 
including capital repairs of US$279 million 
(2006 : US$233 million). The highlight of our 
investment programme in 2007 was the  
start-up of the first phase of our aluminium 
smelter at an annual capacity of 62,500 
tonnes. Formally opened by President 
Nazabayev of the Republic of Kazakhstan  
on 12 December 2007, the project has 
operated ahead of schedule and is running  
to budget. We anticipate increasing the 
>
>
>
>
ENRC is a significant employer in Kazakhstan 
with over 64,000 employees. We have 
extensive operations spread across the 
country and in a number of towns are the 
principal employer. We recognise that  
this gives us key economic and social 
responsibilities to employees and the 
community, which we take very seriously.  
We are engaged with the Government of 
Kazakhstan and with several local regions 
and towns, as well as directly with our 
workforce, to fully reflect these 
responsibilities in our businesses. In 2007 
we gave sponsorship and made donations, 
including investment in community facilities 
and workforce training amounting to US$34 
million (2006 : US$24 million).
As mentioned by the Chairman, 2007 saw a 
rise in fatalities. Any fatality is unacceptable 
and we offer our deepest condolences to  
the families affected. Health and safety is  
a key issue for management and we are 
implementing a number of measures in  
2008 to improve in this important area.
COST MANAGEMENT
A key focus for management in 2008 will be 
costs. In 2007 total costs and unit costs were 
lower than or equal to targeted levels. In 
common with the metals and mining industry 
worldwide, however, we have experienced 
continued cost pressures on materials and 
services, offsetting savings achieved by our 
businesses. Costs of raw materials, services 
and wages all rose strongly, exacerbated  
by the high rate of inflation in Kazakhstan 
reaching 19% for 2007, and by the 
appreciation of the Kazakhstani tenge. We 
expect cost pressures to continue in 2008.
 ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW CHIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
smelter’s annual capacity to 125,000 tonnes 
during 2008 and are confident of  
reaching the planned full annual capacity  
of 250,000 tonnes per annum by 2011.  
The responsibility for this project is in the 
hands of local management under the 
leadership of the General Director of JSC 
Aluminium of Kazakhstan (‘AoK’), Mr Almaz 
Ibragimov, and its delivery reflects very well 
on the considerable operational and project 
management capabilities we have available 
to us.
The aluminium smelter will remain a key 
aspect of capital expenditure in 2008 with 
the continuing build-up to its Phase 1 
capacity of 125,000 tonnes per annum,  
and beginning its build up of an additional 
Phase 2 annual capacity of 125,000 tonnes.  
The Board has reviewed the Group’s capital 
expenditure plans and has confirmed a 
number of additional projects from 2008 to 
be implemented over the next three years. 
These will include:
An anode plant with a capacity of 150,000 
tonnes per annum to secure the supply  
of anodes required for aluminium 
production. Total capital expenditure is 
estimated to be about US$175 million and 
the plant is targeted to be in production  
in 2010.
A caustic soda plant with a capacity of 
400,000 tonnes per annum to secure  
the supply of caustic soda required for 
aluminium production. Total capital 
expenditure is estimated to be about 
US$150 million and the plant is targeted 
to be in production in 2010.
>
>
ACQUISITIONS
We recently announced the completion of the 
acquisition of a controlling interest in Serov 
group and certain related entities (‘Serov’). 
Serov is a ferroalloy producer in eastern 
Russia. Under the terms of the acquisition  
we will receive the economic benefit for the 
full year 2008. The total acquisition 
consideration amounted to US$210 million.
The acquisition of Serov demonstrates a 
number of important aspects of our strategy. 
This transaction is ENRC’s first acquisition 
outside of Kazakhstan and reinforces our 
position in low-carbon and medium-carbon 
ferrochrome, with an incremental annual 
sales volume of approximately 200,000 
tonnes. In addition the transaction allows 
the Group to benefit from further vertical 
integration within its ferroalloys business 
and provides ENRC with an important asset 
base in Russia supporting its strategy of 
pursuing regional expansion opportunities.
Merger and acquisition opportunities are  
an important element of our strategy. We 
believe that our presence in the region and 
our operational capabilities in our core 
commodities leave us well equipped to 
successfully execute value enhancing 
transactions in the years ahead. 
Nonetheless, a tight financial discipline  
will complement our approach to any  
such opportunities.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND 
OUTLOOK
We anticipate that the outlook for mining and 
metals over the next few years is likely to 
remain positive across our core commodities. 
For ENRC this will be reinforced by our 
strategic location, proximate to two key 
‘BRIC’ economies, which are expected to 
drive demand growth from consumers and 
for infrastructure investment. Stainless steel 
production is estimated to grow at around 
5% per annum or more over the next decade, 
whilst the outlook for alumina and aluminium 
should be driven by the existing structural 
shortage within the CIS. We anticipate 
further efforts from competitors to raise 
supply in our core commodities but it 
appears that in the face of infrastructure  
and materials constraints, new production 
will predominantly be at the higher end of 
the cost curve, in contrast to our favoured 
cost position. 
Recent developments in the power situation 
in South Africa have been foremost in 
shaping the near term positive price outlook 
for a number of metals. This situation may 
take a number of years to resolve and 
therefore threatens the expected expansion 
of South Africa’s ferroalloy production 
capacity. In the immediate future we would 
expect the energy cutbacks to be partially 
offset by capacity coming back on stream 
and the implementation of energy 
conservation measures, all of which should 
combine to ease some of the current 
pressure on prices. Nonetheless, for ENRC, 
and specifically ferroalloys and iron ore, the 
value of our reserves and resources, 
combined with our integrated long energy 
position and logistics capacity, offer key 
medium-term advantages. 
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
 2 Whilst the short-term outlook for the world 
economy, particularly in the United States 
and Europe, is uncertain, any abatement in 
demand in these markets is likely to be at 
least offset by continuing growth in China 
and Russia. These are key markets for ENRC 
where currently the bulk of our iron ore  
and alumina is sold on secure long-term, 
benchmark-priced contracts. Whilst our 
ability to grow capacity in 2008 is limited, 
our medium-term plans will support growth 
in these critical markets.
I would like to offer a positive view on the 
prospects for medium-term growth in the 
Chinese and Russian markets. Their potential 
scale of demand growth in ferroalloys,  
iron ore, alumina and aluminium, and in 
other metals is immense, based on their 
populations and the demand in their 
countries. The prospects for ENRC in these 
markets are enhanced by structural capacity 
shortages, particularly in China, that are 
expected to emerge. Kazakhstan and ENRC 
are strategically well positioned to seize the 
opportunities in these key markets.
Overall, I anticipate a strong year for ENRC  
in 2008. Even with modest volume growth 
across our existing ferroalloys, iron ore and 
alumina and aluminium businesses, we 
expect that strong prices should result in 
higher revenues. Ferrochome should benefit 
from a further expected increase in global 
stainless steel production, to some 
31 million tonnes in 2008, notwithstanding 
the anticipated slowdown in the United 
States and Europe. Iron ore has seen an 
exceptionally strong rise in benchmark prices 
for 2008 and whilst the weather impacts of 
2007/2008 may not recur, there is likely to 
be a structural deficit in iron ore for the next 
few years. Aluminium is facing an improved 
pricing outlook over 2007 whilst alumina  
is set to rise due to limitations in the 
availability of bauxite. With our self-
sufficiency in bauxite we will benefit. 
Underpinning our operations we remain long 
on energy and benefit from our extensive 
coal reserves that should allow us to 
maintain an advantaged cost position for 
energy production.
Dr Johannes Sittard
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2008
GROUP OVERVIEW
 3
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM
Mr Miguel Perry (Age 37) 
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed 12 November 2007. Mr Perry is 
the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. 
Prior to joining the Company in March 2007, 
he worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers in 
Russia and Switzerland for 15 years and was 
made a partner in 2005. During this period, 
Mr Perry gained extensive experience with 
companies based in the former Soviet  
Union and advised the Group during 2005 
and 2006. 
Dr Johannes Sittard (Age 64) 
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed 19 December 2006. Dr Sittard is 
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. 
He has over 25 years experience in the 
natural resource and steel industries and is 
also the Chairman of International Mineral 
Resources BV, Chairman of Alferon and a 
non-executive director of Cunico Resources 
NV. Prior to joining the Group in 2001, Dr 
Sittard was the President and Chief 
Operating Officer of ISPAT International NV 
(now known as ArcelorMittal). Dr Sittard is 
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability Committee.
Sir David Cooksey (Age 67) 
Non-executive Chairman
Appointed 7 November 2007. Sir David 
Cooksey GBE was one of the pioneers of the 
private equity industry in Europe. He retired 
as Chairman of Advent Venture Partners LLP 
in 2006, a firm that he founded in 1981.  
Sir David Cooksey is Chairman of London & 
Continental Railways Ltd, an independent 
director of Resolution plc, where he chairs its 
Remuneration Committee and is a member  
of its Nominations Committee, and an 
independent director of the Establishment 
Investment Trust plc where he chairs its 
Audit Committee. Sir David Cooksey is 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Gerhard Ammann (Age 64) 
Independent non-executive Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Mr Ammann is 
Chairman of the Company’s Audit Committee. 
He was CEO of Deloitte  in Switzerland until 
May 2007 and has over 30 years experience 
as an auditor under IFRS and Swiss reporting 
standards, primarily in banking, finance and 
international trade. At Deloitte Mr Ammann 
was Lead Client Service Partner and Advisory 
Partner for many international companies. 
Mr Mehmet Dalman (Age 50) 
Independent non-executive Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Mr Dalman has 
spent 20 years as an Investment Banker, 
working in Japan, Hong Kong, Frankfurt and 
London. Prior to joining the ENRC Board he  
was a member of the Supervisory Board of 
Deutsche Börse and a member of the Board of 
Commerzbank AG. Mr Dalman is currently the 
Chief Executive Officer of the WMG Group, a 
financial services firm that he founded in 2004 
that specialises in alternative investments. 
Mr Michael Eggleton (Age 39) 
Independent non-executive Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Mr Eggleton 
has spent over 15 years as an investment 
professional in the United States, United 
Kingdom, Turkey and Russia. In August 2006, 
he joined TRUST Investment Bank to serve as 
CEO and Chairman of the bank. He is also on 
the board of directors of Moorgate Capital 
Management, a private equity asset manager 
formed by the TRUST Banking Group.
Mr Marat Beketayev (Age 31) 
Non-executive Director and representative of 
the Government of Kazakhstan
Appointed 20 February 2008. Mr Beketayev 
is Vice-minister of Justice of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. Before appointment to the post 
of Vice-minister of Justice Mr Beketayev was 
adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan.
 4
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Sir Paul Judge (Age 59) 
Independent non-executive Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Sir Paul Judge 
spent 13 years with Cadbury Schweppes plc, 
where he led the buyout of its food 
companies to form Premier Brands Ltd, which 
was successfully sold in 1989. He is currently 
the Chairman of Schroder Income Growth 
Fund plc, Teachers TV, the Enterprise 
Education Trust, Digital Links International 
and the British–North American Committee, 
President of the Association of MBAs and 
Deputy Chairman of the American 
Management Association. Sir Paul Judge is a 
director of the United Kingdom Accreditation 
Service, Standard Bank Group Ltd of South 
Africa and Tempur-Pedic International Inc.  
of Kentucky. 
Mr Kenneth Olisa (Age 56) 
Independent non-executive Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Mr Olisa is  
the founder and Chairman of Restoration 
Partners Ltd, a non-executive Director of 
Thomson Reuters PLC, and a non-executive 
Director of BioWisdom and Open Text 
Corporation. He currently serves on the 
Board of, or is an adviser to, several privately 
held and innovative companies, including 
Prevx, Independent Audit and Metapraxis.
Sir Richard Sykes (Age 65) 
Senior independent Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Sir Richard 
Sykes is the Rector of Imperial College, 
London and is the senior independent  
non-executive Director of Rio Tinto plc. He 
has approximately 30 years of experience 
within the biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
industries, serving as Chief Executive  
and Chairman of GlaxoWellcome from  
1995 to 2000 and then as Chairman of 
GlaxoSmithKline until 2002. Sir Richard 
Sykes is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Mr Roderick Thomson (Age 68) 
Independent non-executive Director
Appointed 6 December 2007. Mr Thomson is 
an international financier, venture capitalist 
and philanthropist with over 40 years of 
international business experience. He has 
provided capital from his own private 
investment portfolios to numerous 
companies in the information technology, 
biotechnology, oil and gas, real estate and 
telecommunications sectors. 
Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev (Age 48) 
Non-executive Director appointed  
by Mr Ibragimov
Appointed 6 December 2007. Mr Yedilbayev 
has wide experience working in the mining 
industry, in both the public and private 
sector. For the past eight years Mr Yedilbayev 
has been at Gorneo Buro LLP, which provides 
a variety of technological and scientific 
services to the mining industry and is 
currently Chairman and Finance Director. 
Mr Eduard Utepov (Age 54) 
Non-executive Director and representative of 
the Government of Kazakhstan
Appointed 6 December 2007. Since 1994,  
Mr Utepov has held numerous leading 
positions within the State property 
authorities of the Republic of Kazkhstan. 
Between 1995 and 1997 he served as 
Chairman of the State Privatisation 
Committee of the Republic of Kazkhstan and 
since January 2006 has served as Chairman 
of the State Property and Privatisation 
Committee at the Ministry of Finance of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan.
 5
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW SENIOR MANAGEMENT
OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM
Mr Jim Cochrane
Head of Sales & Marketing
Mr Cochrane is Chief Executive Officer of 
ENRC Marketing AG. Prior to joining the 
Group in 2001, Mr Cochrane gained 
extensive experience in marketing and 
business development in the steel and 
mining industry, having spent 12 years with 
BHP Billiton. Mr Cochrane has been the 
President of the International Chromium 
Development Association since 2006.
Ms Zaure Zaurbekova
Deputy CFO and CFO Kazakhstan
Ms Zaurbekova became Deputy CFO of ENRC 
in late 2007 and has been CFO Kazakhstan 
since 2001. From 1995 she was Finance 
Director and, later, first Vice-President of 
Kazchrome. 
Mr Felix Vulis
Chief Operating Officer Kazakhstan
Mr Vulis has been Chief Operating Officer of 
Kazakhstan since December 2006. Prior to 
joining the Group in 2001, Mr Vulis was 
President of UNICHEM K, LLC. Mr Vulis is 
Deputy Chairman of the Governing Board  
and Co-Chairman of the Operating Working 
Group of the Foreign Investors Council  
of Kazakhstan. 
Ms Mounissa Chodieva
Head of Communications and  
Investor Relations
Ms Chodieva is Head of Communications and 
Investor Relations at ENRC. Ms Chodieva 
assumed this role in 2006, having previously 
held the position of Vice President of 
Corporate Finance. Ms Chodieva previously 
held the position of Vice President of 
Corporate Restructuring at CIM Global AG.
Mr Beat Ehrensberger
General Counsel
Mr Ehrensberger has been the General 
Counsel of ENRC since 2003. He began his 
career as an Associate in the Tax and Legal 
Department at Ernst & Young in Switzerland. 
He later worked at a Zurich-based law firm 
and was involved in projects covering 
corporate, commercial and contractual law, 
including litigation and arbitration.
Mr Paul Waters
Group Company Secretary
Mr Waters joined ENRC as Group Company 
Secretary in June 2007. Prior to joining ENRC, 
he acted as Company Secretary for RHM PLC. 
During his career Mr Waters has acted as 
Company Secretary at Benfield Group, Misys 
PLC and as Deputy Company Secretary at 
Bass PLC. 
 6
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Mr Bereke Mukhametkaliev
President of JSC Zharemsky GOK
Mr Mukhametkaliev started his career in the 
metals and mining industry as technical 
geologist at the JSC ‘Karagaily’ in 1994. He 
joined RU ‘Kazamarganets’ in 2000 as a 
geologist and by 2004 held the position of 
Chief Engineer. In 2004 he became the Chief 
Engineer at the JSC ‘Zhairemsky GOK’ and in 
2005 was appointed as the President.
Mr Viktor Til
General Director of OJSC Kazchrome
Mr Till started his career at one of the 
Kazchrome mines ‘Mplpdejnaya’ in 1977  
and worked in various positions within 
Kazchrome. In 2004 he was appointed as  
the General Director of OJSC Kazchrome.
Mr Abduazim Rustambayev
President of JSC Eurasian Energy Corporation
Mr Rustambayev has been the President  
of the JSC Eurasian Energy Corporation  
since 1999. Prior to assuming this role 
Mr Rustambayev held the position of General 
Director of The Yermakovskaya GRESS (state 
district power plant in Kazakhstan) for three 
years. Mr Rustambayev previously worked at  
The Regional Consumer Cooperation Society 
of Frunze, Kyrgyzstan as the Deputy Chief 
Manager for seven years.
Mr Almaz Ibragimov 
President of JSC Aluminium of Kazakhstan
Mr Ibragimov has been the President of JSC 
Aluminium of Kazakhstan since 2001. From 
1994 until 2001 he held various positions at 
the JSC ‘Pavlodar Alumina Plant’. Prior to that 
he was the Chief Engineer at the collective 
farm ‘Pervoye Maya’ in Kyrgyzstan.
Mr Arif Shadiev
General Director of ENRC Logistics
Mr Shadiev held the position of Deputy 
General Director at LLP ‘Transystema’ from 
1999–2006. He was appointed as General 
Director of ENRC Logistics in 2007.
Mr Mukhamejan Turdakhunov
President of SSGPO
Mr Turdakhunov has held the position of 
President of SSGPO since 1999. He began  
his career in the metals and mining industry 
in 1995 as the Director of the Aksu Factory  
of the Ferroalloys Division in the Pavlodar 
Region in Kazakhstan. Mr Turdakhunov then 
spent two years as the General Director of 
the public corporation ‘Khimfarm’ in 
Shymkent City, Kazakhstan. He joined 
SSGPO as the First Vice President of SSGPO 
in 1997.
 7
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW  8
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
BUSINESS REVIEW  9
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
20-21
KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
22-23
RISK FACTORS
24-29
OPERATING REVIEW
30-31
KAZAKHSTAN ALUMINIUM 
SMELTER
32-42
FINANCIAL REVIEW
BUSINESS REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
DEFINITION
EBITDA before exceptional items is defined 
as profit before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation adjusted  
for exceptional items. Exceptional items  
are those items which are non-recurring or 
variable in nature and which do not impact 
the underlying trading performance of the 
Group. Exceptional items in 2007 and 2006 
relate solely to the IPO.
EBITDA before exceptional items is a 
measure of the underlying profitability of  
the business and as such reflects the cash 
profits of the business. ENRC strives to 
achieve high margins by taking advantage  
of its low cost base and the advantages of  
its vertically integrated operations.
DEFINITION
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) before exceptional 
items is defined as EPS before exceptional 
items and their resulting tax and minority 
interest impacts.
EPS tells us how much attributable profit  
per share is available for distribution to 
shareholders through dividends.
Our dividend policy is for progressive 
payouts in line with our peers, taking  
into account the investment and growth 
opportunities that are available to us. There 
is no final dividend for 2007 because the IPO 
was so close to the year end.
DEFINITION
Return on Capital Employed is defined as 
profit before interest and taxation and 
exceptional items over average capital 
employed (borrowings and total equity, 
including minority interests) less IPO 
proceeds. 
ROCE measures how efficiently the Group’s 
capital is being used.
IPO proceeds were excluded as an 
exceptional item. With the IPO so close to  
the year end funds were mainly invested  
and had not yet been utilised in projects  
or in the businesses.
 US$ ,906m US$ ,256m
52% increase
EBITDA (before exceptional items)  
 2007 2006
 US$0.97 US$0.56
73% increase
EPS (before exceptional items) 
 2007 2006
40% 32%
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 
(before exceptional items)
 2007 2006 
8 percentage point increase
On all of these financial measures, ENRC had a record year in 2007.
20
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 DEFINITION
Product cost per tonne is defined as the total 
operating costs as presented in the income 
statement over the volume of product sold. 
The product cost per tonne measures the 
performance of ENRC in maintaining its low 
cost base. 
The figures above are for the current three 
main product groups of our Divisions. The 
increases in costs over 2006 were 11.4% 
(Ferroalloy and Chrome Ore), 18.2% (Iron 
Ore) and 13.0% (Alumina). These increases 
were kept below the rate of inflation which 
was 19% in Kazakhstan in 2007.
DEFINITION
The safety indicators selected are the lost 
time injury frequency rate (‘LTIFR’) and the 
number of work related fatal injuries. The 
LTIFR is defined as the number of lost time 
injuries per million hours worked.
The LTIFR performance improved significantly 
over 2007 reflecting the start that has been 
made on our programme of safety training 
and other action plans.
ENRC aims for zero work-related fatal 
injuries. Our performance in 2007 
deteriorated on this measure. This has 
already been commented upon by the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in their 
statements along with our strategy and 
action plans in the health and safety area.
For further information refer to the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report on pages 44  
to 49.
DEFINITION
Community Social Investment is defined as 
the total value of donations and gifts in kind 
devoted to communities in which we operate 
and includes donations to public funds.
Our business is long term with investments 
and resources that may have lives of 30 years 
or more. Our operations may be remote and 
in a number of towns we are the principal 
employer. We recognise the key economic 
and social responsibilities we therefore have. 
The investment we make in community social 
projects is an indication of the balanced 
attitude that we have to the way we do 
business. For information please refer to the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report on 
pages 44 to 49.
 US$3 3 US$28 Product cost per tonne
 2007 2006
 LTIFR 0.58 0.77
 Fatalities  5   Safety
 2007 2006
US$34m US$24m
Community Social Investment
 2007 2006 
Ferroalloy and chrome ore
 US$26 US$22
Iron ore
 US$235 US$208
Alumina
2 ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
BUSINESS REVIEW RISK FACTORS
The following describes the material risks 
that could most affect ENRC:
Fluctuations in commodity prices 
will impact our results
The Group generates most of its revenue 
from the sale of commodities, primarily 
ferrochrome, chrome ore, iron ore, alumina 
and in future aluminium. Historically, the 
prices for these products have been volatile 
and have fluctuated widely in response  
to relatively minor changes in supply  
and demand, market uncertainty, the 
performance of the global or regional 
economies and cyclicality in industries that 
purchase these products. Prices may also be 
affected by Government actions, including 
the imposition of tariffs and import duties, 
speculative trades, the development of 
product substitutes or replacements, 
recycling practices, an increase in capacity 
or an oversupply of the Group’s products in 
its main markets. These external factors and 
the volatility of the commodity markets make 
it difficult to estimate future prices. The 
Group does not hedge its exposure to  
the risk of fluctuations in the prices of its 
commodity products. A substantial or 
extended decline in commodity prices would 
materially and adversely affect the Group’s 
business, financial condition, results of 
operations and prospects.
Our profits will be affected by 
currency exchange rate fluctuations
The Group produces commodities that 
typically are priced by reference to prices 
expressed in US dollars and, accordingly, 
payments to the Group are typically made in 
US dollars. The Group’s principal expenses 
are incurred in Kazakhstani tenge. Whilst the 
Group has entered into KZT/US$ forward 
contracts to hedge part of its Kazakhstani 
tenge exchange rate exposure, any 
appreciation of the Kazakhstani tenge 
compared to the US dollar would increase 
the Group’s costs, thereby affecting the 
profitability of the Group’s operations in  
US dollar terms. 
Cost pressures could negatively 
affect our operations and 
expansion plans
The strong commodity cycle and large 
numbers of projects being developed in  
the resources industry has led to increased 
demand for skilled personnel contractors, 
materials and supplies that are required as 
critical inputs to our existing operations and 
planned developments. 
Continued pressure on costs could arise 
specifically in respect of: (i) labour, the cost 
of which has been adversely impacted by 
recent increases in the underlying inflation 
rate in Kazakhstan; (ii) price of key inputs 
consumed in our operations; (iii) transport 
costs, which are regulated within Kazakhstan 
by the Kazakhstani State Railways; and (iv) 
the cost of plant and machinery. These 
factors have led, and could continue to  
lead to, increased capital and operating 
costs at existing operations, as well as 
impacting the costs and schedules of 
projects under development.
Cost control is an area of focus for the Group 
and one where action plans have been 
reviewed and started. An external review  
of productivity is taking place in the Iron  
Ore Division with an expectation of 10% 
improvements. Depending upon the results 
this will be rolled out to other divisions.  
In our project pipeline we have tactical 
investments in projects to replace imported 
or purchased material with our own 
manufacturing capability. We also plan  
a review of management structures for 
efficiencies and the spin-off of non-core 
businesses.
Health, safety and environmental 
exposures and related regulations 
may impact our operations and 
reputation negatively
The nature of the industry in which we 
operate means our activities are highly 
regulated by health, safety and 
environmental laws. As regulatory standards 
and expectations are constantly developing, 
we may be exposed to increased compliance 
costs and unforeseen environmental 
remediation expenses. For more information 
on how we manage this area refer to the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report on 
pages 44 to 49.
We may not be able to successfully 
integrate acquired businesses
We expect that some of our future growth 
will stem from acquisitions. There are 
numerous risks encountered in business 
combinations, and we may not be able to 
successfully integrate acquired businesses 
which could negatively impact our financial 
condition and results of operations.
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
22 Our human resource talent pool 
may not be adequate to support  
the Group’s growth
The Group’s growth and future success 
depend significantly upon its continued 
ability to attract, retain and motivate key 
senior management. The strong commodity 
cycle and large numbers of projects being 
developed in the resources industry has led 
to increased demand for skilled personnel 
and contractors. The inability of the Group 
and industry to attract and retain such 
people may adversely impact our ability to 
adequately resource development projects 
and fill roles and vacancies in existing 
operations. It may also adversely impact the 
costs and schedule of development projects.
Action by the Kazakhstani 
Government or political events in 
Kazakhstan could have a negative 
impact on our business
Our business could be adversely affected by 
new Government regulation, such as controls 
on imports, exports and prices, new forms or 
rates of taxation and royalties. Increased 
requirements relating to regulatory, 
environmental and social approvals can 
potentially result in significant delays in 
construction, and may adversely impact the 
economics of new mining properties, the 
expansion of existing operations and  
the results of our operations. 
The exposure to Russian and 
Chinese markets though currently  
a strength, may negatively impact 
our results of operations in the 
event of a slowdown in these 
economies
The Group’s sales of products from some 
divisions are predominantly to customers 
based in Russia and China. In 2007, the 
Group sold in total 67% of its product to 
these regions (compared to 81% in 2006) 
and this equated to 59% of total revenues 
(2006 : 64%). The Group sold 60% of its 
products in the Ferroalloy Division, 93% of 
its products in the Iron Ore Division, 86% of 
its products in the Alumina and Aluminium 
Division and 32% of its products in the 
Energy Division to customers in Russia and 
China. The 2006 comparatives were 53%, 
94%, 100% and 57% respectively. While 
these economies are currently experiencing 
high rates of growth that are anticipated to 
continue, there can be no assurance that  
this will be the case. An overall slowdown  
in the economies of these countries could 
bring about a decrease in demand for the 
Group’s products.
Unexpected natural and 
operational catastrophes may 
impact our operations
Our operational processes and geographic 
locations may be subject to operational 
accidents. Our operations may also be 
subject to unexpected natural catastrophes 
such as earthquakes and flooding. Existing 
insurance arrangements may not provide 
cover for all of the costs that may arise from 
such events. The impact of these events 
could lead to disruptions in production and 
loss of facilities adversely affecting our 
financial results.
BUSINESS REVIEW
23
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 OPERATING REVIEW
OVERVIEW
ENRC is a leading diversified natural 
resources group with integrated mining, 
processing, energy, logistical and marketing 
operations. The Group’s production assets 
are located in the Republic of Kazakhstan, 
where it employs over 64,000 people. In 
2007, the Group accounted for approximately 
4% of Kazakhstan’s GDP. The Group currently 
sells its products around the world, including 
Russia, China, Japan, Western Europe and 
the United States. For the year ended 
31 December 2007, the Group had revenue of 
US$4,106 million (2006 : US$3,256 million) 
and net profit of US$814 million (2006 : 
US$686 million).
DESCRIPTION OF ENRC’S BUSINESS
The Group has five operating Divisions:
Ferroalloy Division
The Ferroalloy Division produces and sells 
ferrochrome and other ferroalloys, primarily 
to steel producers, and sells chrome ore and 
manganese ore to third party ferroalloy 
producers and the chemical industry. The 
Ferroalloy Division’s vertically integrated 
operations include chrome ore and 
manganese ore mines, two ferroalloy 
processing plants and a gas-fired power 
station. The Ferroalloy Division’s chrome ore 
reserves are believed to be the largest in the 
CIS (166 million tonnes as at 31 December 
2007) and are believed to have a higher 
grade (42.2%) than those of other large- 
scale producers. 
In 2007, the Ferroalloy Division produced 
approximately 3.9 million tonnes of saleable 
chrome ore (2006 : 3.4 million tonnes),  
0.9 million tonnes of manganese ore 
concentrate (2006 : 0.9 million tonnes)  
and approximately 1.5 million tonnes of 
ferroalloys (2006 : 1.4 million tonnes), 
including approximately 1.1 million tonnes  
of its primary product, high-carbon 
ferrochrome (2006 : 1.0 million tonnes).  
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the 
Ferroalloy Division had total third party 
revenue of US$2,178 million (2006 : 
US$1,473 million), which represented 53.0% 
of the consolidated revenue (2006 : 45.2%). 
Competitive Position
The Ferroalloy Division has several strategic 
advantages over its major competitors. First 
Kazakhstan’s geographic location provides 
the Group with access to the rapidly-growing 
Russian and Chinese markets at relatively 
low transportation costs. Secondly, based on 
2006 data, the Ferroalloy Division is believed 
to be the largest producer of ferrochrome, on 
a chrome content basis, in the world. Thirdly, 
based on 2006 data, the Group is located at 
the bottom of the ferrochrome cost curve, on 
a chrome content basis. This cost advantage 
is driven, in part, by the relatively low cost  
of electricity consumed by the Group’s 
ferroalloy plants, which results from the 
generation of a significant proportion of that 
electricity from within the Group and the 
relatively low cost of procuring energy in 
Kazakhstan. The higher chrome content of 
the Group’s chrome ore reserves renders  
its ferrochrome more attractive to stainless 
steel producers that want to limit waste 
products and carbon content and they are 
believed to have a higher percentage of 
chrome content than those of other large-
scale producers. Finally, the Group can 
manufacture a wide range of products and 
reach diverse customers because of its 
ability to produce high-, medium- and low-
carbon ferrochrome and specialty grades  
of ferrochrome, such as low-phosphorus 
ferrochrome.
Production Summary
The following table sets out the production 
volumes for each of the Ferroalloy Division’s 
principal saleable products for the years 
ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 
2006. 
 
 Years ended 31 December 
Product (in kilotonnes) 2007 2006
Chrome ore* 3,881 3,410
Manganese ore 927 862
Ferromanganese 338 314
Ferroalloys: 
 High-carbon ferrochrome 1,070 963
 Medium- and low-carbon  
  ferrochrome 77 77
 Ferrosilicochrome 126 104
 Ferrosilicomanganese 160 203
 Ferrosilicon 37 51
Total ferroalloys 1,470 1,398
*  A proportion of the Ferroalloy Division’s chrome ore 
is consumed in the production of the Division’s 
ferroalloys. For the year ended 31 December 2007 
this proportion was 65.9% (2006 : 66.8%).
Supply and Demand
A majority of the Ferroalloy Division’s 
revenue is derived from ferrochrome sales. 
Most ferrochrome is produced in South 
Africa (45.3% of 2006 global production)  
and Kazakhstan (13.6%). Kazakhstani high-
carbon ferrochrome typically has a chrome 
content of approximately 68%, while South 
African ‘charge chrome’ typically has a 
chrome content of approximately 50% and 
relatively higher silicon and iron contents. 
Whilst the relative prices of Kazakhstani 
high-carbon ferrochrome and charge chrome 
are subject to fluctuation, over the last eight 
years, Kazakhstani high-carbon ferrochrome 
has consistently commanded a premium 
when compared to charge chrome. 
Ferrochrome consumption is largely 
determined by stainless steel production. 
Typically, the demand for stainless steel 
follows overall economic growth. The rapid 
growth in stainless steel production in China 
and, to a lesser extent India, has driven the 
recent increase in demand for ferrochrome. 
Stainless steel production in China rose at a 
compound annual growth rate of 38.4% from 
1996 to 2006.
It is anticipated that growth in global 
stainless steel production and demand  
for high-carbon ferrochrome are likely to 
average approximately 5.1% and 4.1% per 
annum, respectively, between 2008 and 
2016. As a result of an anticipated rising 
demand for ferrochrome, it is estimated that 
ferrochrome producers will operate near full 
capacity over the next several years, and 
anticipated that global ferrochrome capacity 
utilisation will be over 90% between 2008 
and 2010.
ENRC believes that the future supply demand 
balance of chrome ore will depend on two 
key factors. Firstly, India may reduce chrome 
ore exports to secure supply for its domestic 
ferrochrome producers. India, which 
historically has been the largest chrome  
ore supplier to China, recently imposed an 
export tax on chrome ore which is a move  
in this direction. Secondly, the amount of 
future South African chrome ore exports is 
uncertain. South Africa has cut back exports 
due to increased internal consumption, and 
lobbyists continue to urge the Government  
to promote the reduction of exports in 
furtherance of domestic production of 
ferrochrome and the consequent creation  
of jobs. In addition ENRC believes that the 
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
24 limitation of electricity to South African 
ferrochrome producers announced earlier 
this year is likely to limit supply of 
ferrochrome in 2008 as well as prejudice  
the country’s ability to expand production  
in the near term. 
Sales and Pricing
The ferrochrome markets in Europe are 
predominantly negotiated markets, with 
prices agreed on a quarterly basis and 
generally under long-term contracts of one to 
five years. In the United States, prices tend to 
follow those published in either of the two 
major industry journals, Ryan’s Notes and 
Metals Week. In Japan, prices tend to be 
negotiated with a quarterly time lag.
Demand in the high-carbon ferrochrome 
market was surprisingly strong in 2007 
mainly as a result of the high nickel prices 
that made standard austenitic stainless 
steels less cost effective than higher  
chrome substitutes such as duplex steels  
or standard ferritic stainless steel. Total 
stainless steel production was estimated to 
be 28.3 million tonnes in 2007 versus 28.5 
million tonnes in 2006. ENRC is confident 
that stainless steel production will continue 
to grow in 2008, hence high carbon 
ferrochrome demand is likely to remain 
strong. China is the world’s largest producer 
of stainless steel and the largest consumer  
of ferrochrome and it is likely to remain so. 
Developments in the Chinese economy will 
ultimately have a significant impact on the 
ferrochrome market. Prices of low-carbon 
and medium-carbon ferrochrome performed 
well during the year as a result of increased 
demand, particularly from the alloy steel 
sector, and the tightness of supply resulting 
from an industry running close to capacity. 
Chrome ore prices generally correlate to the 
price of ferrochrome.
In 2007, the Ferroalloy Division’s top five 
customers accounted for 30.3% of total sales 
to third parties (2006 : 25.5%) and included 
Taiyuan Iron and Steel (Group) Co. Ltd (2007 : 
10.3%; 2006 : 6.9%) in China, Pohang Iron 
and Steel Company (2007 : 6.1%; 2006 : 
5.8%) in South Korea, JFE Steel Corporation 
(2007 : 5.7%; 2006 : 5.5%) in Japan, ChEMK 
(2007 : 4.1%; 2006 : 3.5%) and the Serov 
Ferroalloy plant (2007 4.1%; 2006 : 2.9%)  
in Russia.
The following table sets out the Ferroalloy 
Division’s volume of third party sales by 
product for the years ended 31 December 
2007 and 2006.
 Years ended 31 December 
Product (in kilotonnes) 2007 2006
Ferroalloys: 
 High-carbon ferrochrome 1,033 899
 Medium-carbon  
  ferrochrome 35 37
 Low-carbon ferrochrome 35 38
 Ferrosilicochrome 59 54
 Ferrosilicomanganese 173 188
 Ferrosilicon 33 52
Total ferroalloys 1,368 1,268
Chrome ore 1,177 1,093
Manganese ore* 880 730
*  Includes manganese concentrate and 
ferromanganese concentrate.
Of the Ferroalloy Division’s third party sales 
in 2007, 23.8% were made in Europe (2006 : 
27.2%), 19.6% in Russia (2006 : 18.5%), 
18.4% in Japan (2006 : 19.3%), 17.9% in 
China (2006 : 12.7%), 10.8% in the United 
States (2006 : 10.8%) and 4.2% in South 
Korea and the Far East (2006 : 7.7%) and 
5.3% in Kazakhstan, the Ukraine and the  
rest of the world (2006 : 3.8%).
Key Initiatives
The Ferroalloy Division’s principal strategic 
objectives are to increase production of 
ferrochrome, the Ferroalloy Division’s most 
significant product, and to continue to 
reduce operating costs. To pursue these 
objectives the Ferroalloy Division intends to:
construct new furnaces at the  
Aksu processing plant at a cost of 
approximately US$160 million. This  
is expected to increase the Ferroalloy 
Division’s annual ferrochrome production 
by more than 200,000 tonnes by 2011; 
and
complete construction of a second 
pelletising plant which is expected to be 
commissioned by the end of 2009 and  
an enrichment plant at the Donskoy Unit 
at an aggregate cost of approximately 
US$110 million (of which approximately 
US$30 million is attributable to the 
enrichment plant) of which US$25 million 
has already been spent. The second 
pelletiser is expected to increase the 
Ferroalloy Division’s supply of chrome 
pellets, increasing the productivity of its 
furnaces. Pellets, as compared to chrome 
ore, increase a furnace’s ferroalloy 
>
>
BUSINESS REVIEW
25
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 26
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED
production rate and reduce electricity 
consumption. The Ferroalloy Division  
also expects the pelletiser to increase 
operating efficiency by lowering 
electricity consumption and increasing 
production.
On 4 December 2007, ENRC entered into  
a conditional agreement to acquire a 
controlling interest in OAO Serov 
Ferrochrome Factory, OAO Saranovskaya 
Mine Rudnava, OAO Serov Metalconcentrate 
Works and certain related entities (the ‘Serov 
group’) for an aggregate consideration  
of US$210 million. This acquisition was 
completed on 3 April 2008. The Serov group 
owns a chrome ore mining facility and a 
ferroalloy smelter in eastern Russia. The 
acquisition of the smelter results in 
incremental production of 200,000 tonnes  
of low- and medium-carbon ferrochrome. The 
Group is Serov’s largest supplier of chrome 
ore. ENRC believes that the operations of the 
Serov group will complement the Ferroalloy 
Division’s existing business, including its 
ferroalloy product range and also provide  
the Group with an important asset base  
in Russia, which supports the Group’s 
strategy to pursue both regional and 
international expansion opportunities  
in our core commodities.
Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division which operates the 
largest iron ore mining and processing 
enterprise in Kazakhstan produces and sells 
iron ore concentrate and pellets primarily to 
steel producers. On the basis of 2006 data,  
it is believed to be the sixth largest iron ore 
exporter by volume in the world and to be  
in the lowest third of the industry cost  
curve for global iron ore pellet production. 
The Iron Ore Division’s operations include 
iron ore mines, crushing, beneficiation  
and pelletising plants and a thermal  
power station. 
In 2007, the Iron Ore Division mined 
approximately 40.2 million tonnes of iron  
ore (2006 : 38.8 million tonnes). This was 
processed into 16.8 million tonnes of iron 
ore concentrate (2006 : 16.1 million tonnes), 
of which 7.6 million tonnes were retained for 
sale (2006 : 7.0 million tonnes) and the 
balance was used to produce 8.5 million 
tonnes of iron ore pellets (2006 : 9.0 million 
tonnes). For the year ended 31 December 
2007, the Iron Ore Division had total third 
party revenue of US$991 million (2006 : 
US$829 million), which represented 24.1% 
(2006 : 25.5%) of the Group’s consolidated 
revenue. 
Competitive Position
The Iron Ore Division has several significant 
strategic advantages over its major 
competitors. Firstly, the location of the 
Group’s iron ore reserves in northern 
Kazakhstan provides access to the important 
customer base of steel production plants in 
Russia, China and Kazakhstan at relatively 
low logistics costs. In particular, the Group’s 
facilities are located within 340km of its key 
customer, The Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel 
Works Open Joint Stock Company (‘MMK’), 
and this proximity provides significant 
logistical advantages. Secondly, the Iron Ore 
Division operates large-scale iron ore mines 
and processing plants at relatively low 
production costs. Based on 2006 data, the 
Group is located in the lowest third of the 
industry cost curve for global iron ore pellet 
production. This cost advantage is driven,  
in part, by the relatively low cost of labour  
in Kazakhstan and the relatively low cost  
of electricity consumed by the Group’s iron 
ore mining and processing operations,  
which results from the internal generation  
of a portion of that electricity within the 
Group and the relatively low cost of energy  
in Kazakhstan.
Supply and Demand
The market for iron ore is primarily regional, 
as iron ore is a bulk commodity and, relative 
to its value, is expensive to transport. China, 
Australia and Brazil are the largest producers 
of iron ore, each accounting for around  
20% of global output in 2006 based on iron 
content. Other significant producers include 
the CIS and India. Global production of iron 
ore was 1,644 million tonnes in 2006 as 
compared to 972 million tonnes in 1998.  
This represents a compound annual growth 
rate of 6.8%.
Typically, steel production and, as a result, 
demand for iron ore, follow overall growth in 
industrial production. Global demand for iron 
ore has increased recently, primarily as a 
result of the significant growth in demand  
for iron ore in China that cannot be satisfied 
domestically. Other important sources of 
demand include India, the Middle East, 
South America and the CIS.
It is predicted that iron ore demand will 
remain strong in the medium term. ENRC 
expects Chinese economic growth to be 
between 7% and 10% per annum between 
2008 and 2012, and that this will result in an 
average annual increase in domestic steel 
production of approximately 62 million 
tonnes. With the quality of domestic Chinese 
iron ore declining, it is anticipated that China 
will become more dependent on imported 
iron ore. We expect increasing demand for 
iron ore to continue in other parts of Asia  
as well.
It is anticipated that iron ore supply will 
struggle to meet rising demand until 2009. 
Thereafter, more significant increases in 
supply are expected as expansions planned 
by three major iron ore producers are 
completed in Brazil and Australia and new 
producers in these countries enter the iron 
ore market.
Sales and Pricing
In April 2007, the Group entered into a long-
term contract with MMK – the Iron Ore 
Division’s largest single customer accounting 
for 16.3% of total Group sales in 2007 
(2006 : 12.5%) – which extends until 2017 
and requires MMK to purchase specified 
quantities at prices determined by reference 
to published world price indices for iron ore 
concentrate and pellets. Prices are revised 
annually on 1 April by reference to the 
aforementioned world price indices.
Tightness in the iron ore market during 2007 
was highlighted by the fact that spot prices 
traded significantly higher than contract 
prices for the duration of the year. The strong 
steel market, particularly in China, was the 
main factor. The long lead time in new iron 
ore projects has limited the industry’s ability 
to respond quickly to rising prices. The 65% 
increase in prices announced by Vale for 
2008 contracts represents an attempt to 
close the gap with the spot market.
Key Initiatives
The Iron Ore Division’s principal strategic 
objectives are to increase mining, 
concentrating and pellitising capacities,  
and expand its customer base through 
diversification of its product portfolio.  
As disclosed at the time of the IPO, the  
Iron Ore Division plans to: 
expand mining operations and increase 
iron ore concentrate capacity by 
> 27
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
approximately 4.0 million tonnes per 
annum by 2010, through an investment 
totalling US$320 million (US$45 million 
has already been spent); and
construct a 1.8 million tonnes per annum 
DRI plant and 5.0 million tonnes per 
annum iron ore pelletiser for 
approximately US$800 million (on the 
basis of current estimates, which are 
subject to change depending on the 
process technology ultimately selected). 
DRI is a higher value product and has a 
broader customer base than the Group’s 
existing iron ore products because, 
compared to concentrate or pellets, it  
is cheaper to transport long distances 
relative to its price and can be used in 
electric furnaces. Construction is planned 
to commence in 2008 and is currently 
scheduled to be completed by 2011.
In light of strong forecast demand,  
the Group is currently assessing the 
feasibility of extending the aforementioned 
expansion plans. 
The Alumina and Aluminium 
Division
The Alumina and Aluminium Division 
produces and sells alumina to aluminium 
producers and from 2008, aluminium. Based 
on 2006 data, ENRC believes that the 
Alumina and Aluminium Division is the fifth 
largest supplier of traded alumina by volume 
in the world and is in the lowest quartile of 
the industry cost curve for alumina 
producers globally. The Alumina and 
Aluminium Division’s vertically integrated 
operations include two bauxite mining units, 
a limestone mine, an alumina refinery and a 
power station. The new aluminium smelter 
allows the Alumina and Aluminium Division 
to process its alumina into aluminium. The 
smelter was commissioned on 12 December 
2007 with an annual capacity of 62,500 
tonnes and is expected to achieve a 
production capacity of 125,000 tonnes  
per annum by 31 December 2008. The Group 
has commenced construction of Phase 2 of 
the smelter which will increase production 
capacity to 250,000 tonnes per annum  
by 2011. 
In 2007, the Alumina and Aluminium Division 
mined approximately 5.0 million tonnes of 
bauxite (2006 : 4.9 million tonnes) and 
produced approximately 1.5 million tonnes 
>
of alumina (2006 : 1.5 million tonnes). For 
the year ended 31 December 2007, the 
Alumina and Aluminium Division had 
revenue of US$608 million (2006 : US$612 
million). US$607 million of this was derived 
from third party sales (2006 : US$602 
million), representing 14.8% (2006 : 18.5%) 
of the Group’s consolidated revenue. 
Competitive Position
The Alumina and Aluminium Division has 
several strategic advantages over its major 
competitors. First, the Group’s bauxite 
reserves provide a reliable supply of the 
principal raw material for the production  
of alumina and aluminium. Secondly,  
the Alumina and Aluminium Division has 
integrated energy operations that supply  
it with a reliable and cost-effective source  
of energy and additional needs of the 
aluminium smelter will be met from within 
the Group. Thirdly, the Group is a low-cost 
alumina producer being located in the lowest 
quartile of the alumina cost curve (based on 
2006 data). This cost advantage is driven, in 
part, by the internal supply of bauxite, the 
relatively low cost of labour in Kazakhstan 
and the relatively low cost of electricity 
consumed by the Group’s bauxite mining  
and alumina processing operations.
Supply and Demand
The majority of the world’s alumina is 
manufactured by integrated producers for 
internal consumption in their own aluminium 
smelters. The former Eastern Bloc, 
Australasia, Latin America and China, are 
believed to be the largest producers of 
alumina, together accounting for 
approximately 92% of global alumina 
production in 2006. Global alumina 
production increased from 53.3 million 
tonnes in 2000 to 73.8 million tonnes in 
2006. A large proportion of the new capacity 
has come from brownfield expansions. 
Forecasts show that global alumina 
production will rise to 91.6 million tonnes by 
2011, primarily driven by new capacity at 
greenfield and brownfield sites in China.
Global alumina demand has increased 
significantly in recent years driven by 
increased aluminium production and the 
related demand for alumina in China. ENRC 
expects that global alumina demand will 
continue to grow, and will reach 84.5 million 
tonnes in 2011 (which is a compound annual 
growth rate of 5%), driven primarily by 
BUSINESS REVIEW 28
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED
further growth in China. Demand for alumina 
is also expected to increase in the Middle 
East, Latin America and the CIS.
ENRC’s view is that between 2008 and 2011, 
the global alumina market will remain 
oversupplied due to the volume of new 
alumina capacity outstripping the forecasted 
global demand. In contrast demand for 
alumina in the CIS is expected to continue  
to exceed supply. In 2006, CIS alumina 
production was insufficient to meet alumina 
demand from the local aluminium industry 
and the CIS had an alumina supply deficit of 
nearly 2 million tonnes. We expect the deficit 
in the CIS to rise to 4.3 million tonnes over 
the next five years because the pace of new 
aluminium smelting capacity expansion  
in the region, including the Group’s new 
aluminium smelter, will outpace new alumina 
refining capacity.
Sales and Pricing
The Group has a long-term contract with UC 
RUSAL that extends until 2016 and provides 
for UC RUSAL to purchase specified 
quantities of alumina at prices determined 
by reference to a percentage of the London 
Metal Exchange (LME) prices for aluminium.
The global alumina market was very resilient 
in 2007 contrary to many predictions of 
gloom. The Chinese alumina industry, which 
was anticipated to cause a global oversupply, 
struggled to secure the bauxite it required 
mainly as a result of supply interruptions from 
West Africa. The spot alumina price increased 
from US$220 per tonne at the beginning of the 
year to US$400 per tonne at the end. Almost 
100% of ENRC’s sales are based on a 
percentage of the aluminium price and 
therefore ENRC has almost no exposure to 
spot alumina prices.
Going forward, ENRC has long-term contracts 
which provide for all sales of primary 
aluminium until 2018 to be made to Glencore 
International AG (‘Glencore’) and to be  
priced by reference to LME spot prices less 
sales commission.
Key Initiatives
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s 
principal strategic objectives are to 
maximise alumina capacity through 
brownfield expansion, to invest in aluminium 
production to exploit its surplus of low cost 
electricity, bauxite and alumina, and to 
diversify its customer base. The Alumina and 
Aluminium Division will pursue its objectives 
through: 
further increasing the production of 
alumina by approximately 300,000 
tonnes per annum by 2010 through an 
investment of US$240 million of which 
US$80 million has already been spent. 
This should allow the Alumina and 
Aluminium Division to fulfil the aluminium 
smelter’s needs for alumina, without 
reducing the alumina available for sale to 
third parties below one million tonnes per 
annum; and
investing US$90 million in upgrading the 
quality of alumina produced from alumina 
flour to sandy alumina, which is more 
efficient in aluminium smelters and 
generally commands a higher price. 
US$20 million has already been spent.
Beginning in 2008, ENRC intends to spend  
a further US$330 million, approximately,  
on increasing the annual capacity of the 
aluminium smelter to 250,000 tonnes of 
aluminium by 2010. Also, as reported in  
the Chief Executive Officer’s statement,  
the Board has recently approved a 400,000 
tonnes caustic soda plant (investment 
approximately US$150 million) and a 
150,000 tonnes anode production plant 
(investment approximately US$175 million). 
Both are expected to come on-stream  
by 2010.
Energy Division
The Energy Division is one of the largest 
electricity providers in Kazakhstan, 
accounting for approximately 16% of the 
country’s recorded electricity production. 
The Energy Division provides a cost-effective 
energy supply to the Group’s principal 
operating divisions as well as producing  
a surplus for sales to third parties in 
Kazakhstan. In 2007 the Energy Division 
produced 12.1 million KWh (2006 : 11.5 
million KWh) of which 65.4% (2006 : 53.9%) 
was used internally within the Group. 
>
>
Coal production increased 2.8% to 18.4 
million tonnes (2006 : 17.9 million tonnes).
In addition to sales of surplus electricity, the 
Energy Division also sold 6.4 million tonnes 
of coal to third parties (2006 : 6.3 million 
tonnes) which represented 34.5% of total 
coal mined (2006 : 35.2%). 
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the 
Energy Division had revenue of US$314 
million (2006 : US$263 million), of which 
US$181 million was derived from third party 
sales (2006 : US$154 million), representing 
4.4% (2006 : 4.7%) of the Group’s 
consolidated revenue. 
Sales and Pricing
Electricity
Spot electricity prices in Kazakhstan 
increased slightly during the year as a result 
of growing demand and supply tightness. 
The market grew approximately 6.5% in 2007 
to a total of 76.5 million KWh. Supply 
constraints are likely to be heightened in 
2008, as the new ENRC aluminium smelter 
ramps up, creating the single largest 
increase in demand in the country. 
Kazakhstan has a long-term electricity 
expansion plan and no shortages of the type 
experienced in South Africa are anticipated 
at this time. 
Coal
Due to the limited number of producers  
in Kazakhstan, the domestic market is 
controlled by the Government. In 2007 the 
price was increased by 19% compared to 
2006 and it is anticipated that the price will 
rise again in 2008. This increase may be 
limited however as the Government attempts 
to control inflation. In Russia, due to Russia’s 
net export position, prices tend to respond  
to world market price increases. With FOB 
Russian port prices increasing from US$62 
per tonne to US$100 per tonne during 2007, 
an increase in exports can be anticipated. 29
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Key Initiatives
The primary aim of the Energy Division is the 
supply of low-priced electricity to the Group’s 
mining, smelting and refining businesses. To 
pursue its primary aim, the Energy Division 
intends to: 
invest approximately US$200 million in 
the period up to 2011 to construct a new 
turbine and generator (US$10 million 
already spent). It is expected that the new 
generator will increase total installed 
electricity generating capacity by 325MW 
by 2012;
install overburden stripping equipment  
at a cost of approximately US$85 million 
(US$5 million already spent) to increase 
efficiency; and
complete refurbishment of certain 
existing generator blocks (Turbine 1)  
at a cost of approximately US$100 million 
(US$60 million already spent).
Logistics Division
The Logistics Division provides effective 
transportation and logistics services to the 
Group’s principal operating Divisions and  
to third parties. The Logistics Division’s 
operations include freight forwarding, wagon 
repair services and railway construction  
and repair services. The Logistics Division 
mitigates many of the risks associated with 
the supply of raw materials and delivery  
of products to customers, by providing the 
Group with reliable delivery services. In 
addition, the Logistics Division operates a 
railway transfer and reloading terminal on 
the Kazakhstan and China border, facilitating 
the Group’s access to the growing market  
in China. 
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the 
Logistics Division transported 60.9 million 
tonnes of goods (2006 : 61.7 million tonnes), 
of which approximately 87.7% (2006 : 
87.3%) was intra Group. For the year ended 
31 December 2007, the Logistics Division 
had revenue of US$232 million (2006 : 
US$277 million), of which US$149 million 
was derived from third party sales (2006 : 
US$198 million), representing 3.6% (2006 : 
6.1%) of the Group’s consolidated revenue. 
>
>
>
Key Initiatives 
On 21 March 2008, the Logistics Division 
won the State tender for the construction  
of some 300km of railway in South-East 
Kazakhstan (China gateway project). The 
new railway will facilitate the increase in 
cargo carried between Kazakhstan and  
China by 30 million tonnes per annum. It will 
provide ENRC’s operations with a secure 
transportation route with increased capacity 
for products to be sold into the growing 
Chinese market. The construction period  
is estimated to be about four years and the 
required investment is expected to be 
approximately US$900 million.
Sales and Marketing
The Group’s sales and marketing function 
provides ENRC’s operating divisions with a 
fully integrated and centrally organised sales 
and marketing resource. This facilitates the 
efficient coordination of the Group’s external 
sales, monitoring of key markets and general 
production strategy. The sales and marketing 
function performs the following key 
functions: strategy and planning; commercial 
contract terms and customer relations; 
market research; and coordinating logistics. 
The centralisation of this function provides 
significant operational advantages to the 
Group including the identification and 
exploitation of market synergies and 
improved operational efficiencies. In 
addition, as the markets in which the Group 
operates are geographically diverse and 
complex, the size, scope and expertise of the 
sales and marketing function enables it to 
gather significant market information that is 
not otherwise generally available.
BUSINESS REVIEW KAZAKHSTAN ALUMINIUM SMELTER
30
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 On 12 December 2007, our new aluminium smelter located in the Pavlodar Region  
was formally opened by President Narzarbeyev of the Republic of Kazakhstan. This 
was the culminating moment of a journey that involved the efforts of many people. 
The aluminium smelter was not only the first large-scale project undertaken by the 
Group but also the first for the Republic of Kazakhstan and, as such, the opening 
ceremony was a moment of pride for both the Country and our Group. Our success 
demonstrated our ability to execute a complex plan and to deliver a large-scale, 
technical project working with international partners in a tight timescale and within 
the budget. Our Kazakhstan management team together with the skilled workforce 
rose to the challenge.
The journey started in 2001, when as part of tender obligations in the privatisation 
process of AoK, a commitment was made to build the smelter and in 2003 a formal 
agreement to this effect was signed with the State Property and Privatisation 
Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Group began 
construction in 2004 and had to commission the smelter by the end of 2007. The 
stakes were high for the Group as a condition of receiving legal title to the shares of 
AoK was to meet this objective.
The Group embarked on the project and committed to meet the challenging timescale 
set for initial production which was for commissioned capacity of 62,500 tonnes of 
aluminium per annum. Many employees of the Group were involved in this project  
but we also appointed experts to ensure the outcome, most notably the China Non-
ferrous Engineering and Construction Company. The smelter is located within 10km of 
the alumina plant which provides it with both alumina and electricity with additional 
electricity needs met within the Group (by EEC). The first aluminium was produced in 
September 2007 with the smelter operational by the formal launch date. Our success 
was recognised by the Kazakhstan Government and legal title of the AoK shares was 
transferred to us on 29 January 2008.
By the end of 2008 the capacity of the smelter will have been increased to 125,000 
tonnes per annum (the phase I target). The ultimate capacity of 250,000 tonnes per 
annum is scheduled to be in place by 2011. In August 2007 the Group entered into 
off-take agreements with Glencore, securing sales from the smelter at prices 
referenced to LME spot prices until 2018.
A state-of-the-art electrolysis plant, officially launched on 12 December 2007,  
with initial capacity of 62,500 tonnes to be increased to the total capacity of  
250,000 tonnes of primary aluminium by 2011.
62,500
t
INITIAL.
aluminium production capacity
2007 > 2008
 25,000
t
PHASE I TARGET.
aluminium production capacity
2008 > 2009
250,000
t
ULTIMATE. 
aluminium production capacity
2010 > 2011
BUSINESS REVIEW
3 ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 32
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
FINANCIAL REVIEW
SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AFFECTING 
THE GROUP’S RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS
Key factors affecting the Group’s results of 
operations are discussed below.
Commodity prices
Prices of the mineral commodities that the 
Group produces have a material impact on the 
Group’s results of operations. Commodity 
prices are affected by changes in global 
economic conditions, supply and demand 
trends, technological changes and related 
industrial cycles. Prices of ferroalloys, iron ore, 
alumina and aluminium can vary significantly. 
Generally producers of commodities are unable 
to influence market commodity prices directly; 
however, events such as changes in production 
capacity, temporary price reductions or other 
attempts to capture market share by significant 
producers may have an effect on market prices. 
Additionally, the prices realised by producers 
on sales of their products can be affected by 
contractual arrangements, production levels, 
product quality and hedging strategies. Price 
variations, hedging policies and market cycles 
have historically influenced the financial 
results of the Group and are expected to 
continue to do so.
Production costs and efficiency
The Group’s competitiveness and long-term 
profitability are, to a significant degree, 
dependent upon its ability to maintain low-cost 
and efficient operations. Costs associated with 
mining and metal production can be broadly 
categorised into costs attributable to raw 
materials, direct labour and production 
overheads.
The Group is among the lowest cost producers 
in each of its segments. The scale of the 
Group’s operations and its vertical integration 
contribute to the efficiency and profitability of 
the business. 
The Group’s production costs and efficiency 
are subject to fluctuations in the costs of the 
materials it purchases such as fuel, special 
coal, coke, materials used for repair and 
maintenance of facilities and other materials. 
The Group has embarked on a series of cost-
control measures, including modernisation 
programmes and the restoration of repair parts 
in lieu of the purchase of new parts, which are 
aimed at reducing costs.
Exchange rates
The Group’s principal products are 
commodities typically priced by reference to 
US dollars. A substantial portion of the Group’s 
costs are incurred in Kazakhstani tenge (KZT). 
Accordingly, the Group may be materially 
affected by exchange rate fluctuations 
between the US dollar and the Kazakhstani 
tenge and, to a lesser extent, other currencies 
including the Swiss franc, Japanese yen, 
European euro and British pound. In 2007, the 
Group entered into a number of US$/KZT 
foreign exchange forward contracts to partially 
hedge against fluctuations in the exchange 
rate (see note 33 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements on page 102). Hedge accounting 
has been applied for these instruments since 
18 September 2007, with fair value movements 
since that date being held in equity.
The functional currency of all the significant 
operating entities is the Kazakhstani tenge, 
while for the sales and marketing entities it 
is the US dollar. The functional currency for 
each entity in the Group is the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which 
it operates. The results and financial position 
of all Group entities that have a functional 
currency different from US dollars, the 
Group’s presentation currency, are translated 
into US dollars as follows:
Assets and liabilities are translated at the 
closing rate as at each balance sheet date.
Income and expenses for each income 
statement are translated at average 
exchange rates (unless this average is not 
a reasonable approximation of the 
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing 
on the transaction dates, in which case 
income and expenses are translated at 
the dates of the transactions).
All resulting exchange differences are 
recognised as a separate component  
of equity.
The following table sets out, for the periods 
indicated, the relevant period-end and 
average exchange rates of the Kazakhstani 
tenge to the US dollar, as applied in the 
preparation of the Group’s audited 
consolidated financial information for the 
relevant periods and expressed in 
Kazakhstani tenge per US dollar.
 
Period Period end Average
2007 120.30 122.55
2006 127.00 126.09
2005 133.77 
>
>
>
FACTORS AFFECTING 
COMPARABILITY
Key factors affecting comparability of the 
Group’s results of operations and financial 
condition include:
Relationship with MMK
Historically, MMK has been one of the 
Group’s principal customers. In 2006 and  
the first quarter of 2007, the results of 
operations of the Iron Ore Division were 
materially and adversely affected by 
protracted contractual negotiations with 
MMK, which resulted in reduced sales 
volumes and prices. 
The Group and MMK reached agreement and 
signed a long-term supply contract that 
became effective in April 2007 and will 
expire in 2017. Under this agreement, MMK 
is required to purchase specified quantities 
of iron ore products at prices determined by 
reference to published world price indices for 
concentrates and pellets. Prices are revised 
each year on 1 April.
Initial public offering (‘IPO’)
The Group undertook an initial public 
offering in 2007. This resulted in the receipt 
of US$3.1 billion of cash proceeds in 
December 2007. In 2007 costs amounting to 
US$278 million were incurred in connection 
with the IPO. Of these, US$96 million were 
recorded in the share premium account as 
directly attributable to the equity cost and 
US$182 million were recorded within ‘selling 
general and administrative expenses’ in the 
income statement (2006 : US$6 million). 
Given the non-recurring nature of these 
costs, they have been classified in the 
income statement as ‘exceptional items’ and 
hence excluded from EBITDA before 
exceptional items.
Trade finance facility amounting to 
US$ .5 billion
The Group successfully borrowed US$1.4 
billion under its US$1.5 billion trade finance 
loan facility. Part of the amount was used to 
refinance the US$1 billion promissory notes 
issued to shareholders in 2006, which had 
been treated as a pre-IPO distribution of 
retained earnings in 2006, with the 
remaining amount being used for general 
corporate purposes. 33
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following table sets out information about the Group’s results of operations for years the ended 31 December 2007 and  
31 December 2006 respectively: 
       2007 vs. 2006
In millions of US$     2007 2006 +/– %
Revenue      4,106   3,256   850  26.1%
Cost of sales     (1,701) (1,542) (159) 10.3%
Gross profit     2,405  1,714   691 40.3%
Gross margin, %     58.6% 52.6% 6.0% –
Distribution costs     (373) (407)  34  (8.4)%
Selling, general and administrative expenses     (606) (290) (316) 109.0%
Net other operating income/(expenses)     (5) (20) 15 (75.0)%
Operating profit      1,421  997   424  42.5%
Operating profit margin, %     34.6% 30.6% 4.0% –
 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment     (303) (253) (50) 19.8%
 Exceptional items     (182) (6) (176) 2933.3%
 EBITDA before exceptional items      1,906 1,256   650  51.8%
 EBITDA margin before exceptional items, %     46.4% 38.6% 7.8% – 
Finance income      58   24   34  141.7%
Finance costs      (158) (50) (108) 216.0%
Profit before income tax      1,321   971   350  36.0%
Profit before income tax margin, %     32.2% 29.8% 2.4% –
Income tax expense     (507) (285) (222) 77.9%
Effective tax rate, %     38.4% 29.4% 9.0% –
Profit for the year     814   686   128  18.7%
Profit margin, %     19.8% 21.1% (1.3)% –
Depreciation and amortisation in Cost of sales     (271) (241) (30) 12.4%
Depreciation and amortisation in Selling, general and administrative expenses   (32) (12) (20) 166.7%
The following table sets out selected financial information of the Group by division: 
 
   Alumina and    Intra 
 Ferroalloy Iron Ore Aluminium Energy Logistics  Group 
In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Corporate eliminations Total
Segment revenue 
2007 2,178 991 608 314 232 – (217) 4,106
2006 1,473 829 612 263 277 – (198) 3,256
Segment operating profit 
2007 1,038 359 159 71 27 (233) – 1,421
2006 476 244 226 41 38 (28) – 997
Segment operating profit margin, % 
2007 47.7% 36.2% 26.2% 22.6% 11.6% – – 34.6%
2006 32.3% 29.4% 36.9% 15.6% 13.7% – – 30.6%
EBITDA before exceptional items 
2007 1,138 448 220 107 44 (51) – 1,906
2006 547 323 277 77 54 (22) – 1,256
EBITDA margin before exceptional items, % 
2007 52.2% 45.2% 36.2% 34.1% 19.0% – – 46.4%
2006 37.1% 39.0% 45.3% 29.3% 19.5% – – 38.6%
BUSINESS REVIEW 34
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Year ended 3 December 2007 
compared to year ended  
3 December 2006
Revenue
The Group
The Group’s revenue increased by US$850 
million, or 26.1%, from US$3,256 million  
for the year ended 31 December 2006 to 
US$4,106 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. The Ferroalloy Division 
accounted for 82.9% of the revenue increase. 
This reflects the benefit of higher ferroalloy 
prices which were the result of higher 
demand for ferroalloys. Demand was driven 
up by rapid growth in stainless steel 
production in China and, to a lesser extent, 
in India. The remaining 19.1% of the total 
revenue increase was attributable to the Iron 
Ore Division, primarily the result of higher 
iron ore prices following resolution of the 
Group’s contractual negotiations with MMK 
in April 2007. Total revenue, however, was 
adversely affected by a reduction in railway-
repair services volumes in the Logistics 
Division which had a 5.8% negative impact.
The Ferroalloy Division
The Ferroalloy Division’s third party revenue 
increased by US$705 million, or 47.9%,  
from US$1,473 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$2,178 million  
for the year ended 31 December 2007.  
This increase was primarily due to higher 
ferroalloy prices, which increased by US$331 
per tonne, or 34.4%, from US$962 per tonne 
for the year ended 31 December 2006 to 
US$1,293 per tonne for the year ended 
31 December 2007, and higher chrome ore 
prices, which increased by US$74 per tonne, 
or 42.0%, from US$176 per tonne for the year 
ended 31 December 2006 to US$250 per 
tonne for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
The above price increases led to a US$539 
million increase in revenue. In addition, a 
7.6% increase in ferroalloy sales volumes 
and a 7.6% increase in chrome ore sales 
volumes, accounted for US$108 million in 
revenue. The balance of the increase was 
attributable to an increase in sales of  
other products.
The Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division’s third party revenue 
increased by US$162 million, or 19.5%,  
from US$829 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$991 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. This increase 
was primarily due to a US$11 per tonne, or 
22.9%, rise in iron ore prices, from US$48 
per tonne for the year ended 31 December 
2006 to US$59 per tonne for the year ended 
31 December 2007. This increase accounted 
for a rise of US$168 million in revenue. The 
key to the price increase was the resolution 
of the Group’s contractual negotiations  
with MMK and the resulting 10-year supply 
agreement with MMK, which took effect for 
the last three quarters of the year ended 
31 December 2007 and under which the price  
of iron ore sold to MMK is determined by 
reference to published world price indices. 
The price increase was partially offset by a 
1.4% decline in volumes, which reduced 
revenue by US$11 million.
The Alumina and Aluminium Division
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s third 
party revenue increased by US$5 million,  
or 0.8%, from US$602 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2006 to US$607 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2007. A 
3.4% decline in alumina prices, which are 
linked to the LME aluminium price, combined 
with a 0.6% fall in sales volumes resulted in 
US$23 million revenue reduction. This was 
offset by rising sales of by-products and 
sales of surplus heat and electrical energy. 
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s sales 
to other Group Divisions declined by US$9 
million from US$10 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$1 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007.
The Energy Division
The Energy Division’s third party revenue 
increased by US$27 million, or 17.5%,  
from US$154 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$181 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. This increase 
was due to a US$19 million increase in 
revenue from sales of electricity to third 
parties, resulting from a 47.7% increase in 
the average electricity tariff. It was partially 
offset by a 12.3% reduction in the volume  
of electricity sold (as more electricity was 
consumed within the Group). Also an 8.8% 
increase in the average price of coal, driven 
by prices of exported coal, and 2.0% 
increase in volumes of coal sales, resulted in 
US$10 million increase in revenue from coal 
sales. The Energy Division’s sales to other 
Group Divisions increased by US$24 million, 
or 22.0%, from US$109 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2006 to US$133 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Logistics Division
The Logistics Division’s third party revenue 
declined by US$49 million, or 24.7%,  
from US$198 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$149 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2007. The 
decline was primarily driven by a reduction 
in volumes and in prices for railroad repair 
services. The Logistics Division’s sales to 
other Group Divisions increased by US$4 
million, or 5.1%, from US$79 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2006 to  
US$83 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007.
Cost of Sales
The Group
The Group’s cost of sales increased by 
US$159 million, or 10.3%, from US$1,542 
million for the year ended 31 December 2006 
to US$1,701 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. Driven by volume 
increases as well as increases in prices for 
materials and labour, the Ferroalloys and 
Iron Ore Divisions accounted for 57.2% and 
34.6% respectively of the overall increase. 
Volumes increased due to stronger demand 
for ferroalloys. Rising material and labour 
costs resulted in the Alumina and Aluminium 
Division accounting for 29.6% of the Group’s 
cost increase. Despite an underlying increase 
in costs, a significant fall in railroad repair 
volumes in the Logistics Division resulted  
in a 28.3% reduction in total cost of sales. 
Exchange rate fluctuations accounted for an 
increase of US$53 million in cost of sales.
The Ferroalloy Division
The Ferroalloy Division’s cost of sales 
increased by US$91 million, or 13.7%,  
from US$663 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$754 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2007. 
 
On a per tonne basis, cost of sales increased 
by US$32 per tonne, or 11.4%, from US$281 
per tonne for the year ended 31 December 
2006 to US$313 per tonne for the year  
ended 31 December 2007. This increase  
was primarily driven by an US$11 per tonne 
increase in payroll expenses, and a US$37 
per tonne rise in the cost of materials used  
in production. In addition, an increase in 
royalty costs paid by the Ferroalloy Division  35
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
to the Republic of Kazakhstan, which are 
determined on either a flat rate or a sliding 
scale as a percentage of the volume of the 
extracted resource, resulted in a further 
increase of US$4 per tonne. Exchange rate 
fluctuations accounted for an increase of 
US$20 million in cost of sales.
The Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division’s cost of sales 
increased by US$55 million, or 15.2%,  
from US$362 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$417 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. On a per 
tonne basis, cost of sales increased by US$4 
per tonne, or 18.2%, from US$22 per tonne 
for the year ended 31 December 2006 to 
US$26 per tonne for the year ended 
31 December 2007. This increase was 
primarily driven by a US$3 per tonne 
increase in the cost of materials and energy 
used in production with an increase in 
payroll expenses adding a further US$1  
per tonne. Exchange rate fluctuations 
accounted for an increase of US$13 million  
in cost of sales.
The Alumina and Aluminium Division
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s cost 
of sales increased by US$38 million, or 
12.1%, from US$314 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2006 to US$352 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2007. On  
a per tonne basis, cost of sales of alumina 
increased by US$27 per tonne, or 13.0%, 
from US$208 per tonne for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$235 per tonne for 
the year ended 31 December 2007. This 
increase was primarily due to an increase in 
raw materials expenses of US$13 per tonne, 
an increase in payroll expenses of US$9  
per tonne, and an increase in amortisation 
expenses of US$5 per tonne. Exchange rate 
fluctuations accounted for an increase of 
US$9 million in cost of sales.
The Energy Division
The Energy Division’s cost of sales declined 
by US$7 million, or 4.2%, from US$168 
million for the year ended 31 December  
2006 to US$161 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. The reduction was 
primarily driven by a decline of US$19 million 
in purchases of materials for resale. This was 
offset by US$9 million increase in payroll 
expenses and US$3 million increase in 
material costs. Exchange rate fluctuations 
accounted for an increase of US$5 million  
in cost of sales.
The Logistics Division
The Logistics Division’s cost of sales 
declined by US$41 million, or 18.6%,  
from US$220 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$179 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. The reduction 
was mainly driven by reduced volumes of 
railroad repair resulting in a US$32 million 
reduction in costs of materials, a 
US$3 million reduction in payroll and a 
US$14 million reduction in other costs. 
Exchange rate fluctuations accounted for  
an increase of US$6 million in cost of sales.
Distribution Costs
The Group
The Group’s distribution costs declined by 
US$34 million, or 8.4%, from US$407 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2006 to 
US$373 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. This decline was 
principally due to a reduction in distribution 
costs in the Iron Ore Division which resulted 
from a greater proportion of iron ore sales 
being made to MMK. The decline was 
partially offset by increased distribution 
costs in the Ferroalloy and Energy Divisions 
due to higher per tonne transportation and 
related costs. Exchange rate fluctuations 
accounted for an increase of US$9 million  
in distribution costs.
The Ferroalloy Division
The Ferroalloy Division’s distribution costs 
increased by US$33 million, or 15.3%,  
from US$215 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$248 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2007. On a per 
tonne basis, distribution costs increased by 
US$12 per tonne, or 13.2%, from US$91 per 
tonne for the year ended 31 December 2006 
to US$103 per tonne for the year ended 
31 December 2007. This increase was 
primarily driven by an increase of US$8 per 
tonne in transportation and related costs 
principally relating to a rise in Kazakhstani 
railroad tariffs. Exchange rate fluctuations 
accounted for an increase of US$4 million  
in distribution costs.
BUSINESS REVIEW 36
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
The Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division’s distribution costs 
declined by US$44 million, or 31.4%,  
from US$140 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$96 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. On a per 
tonne basis, distribution costs declined by 
US$3 per tonne, or 33.3%, from US$9 per 
tonne for the year ended 31 December  
2006 to US$6 per tonne for the year ended 
31 December 2007. This decline primarily 
resulted from the resumption of sales 
volumes to MMK and the attendant reduction 
in sales to more distant customers in  
China. Transportation costs per tonne are 
significantly higher for deliveries to China 
compared to deliveries to MMK, which  
is located within 340km of the SSGPO 
processing plant. Exchange rate fluctuations 
increased distribution costs by US$3 million.
The Alumina and Aluminium Division
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s 
distribution costs declined by US$2 million, 
or 6.3%, from US$32 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2006 to US$30 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
Distribution costs declined by US$1 per 
tonne, or 4.8%, from US$21 per tonne for the 
year ended 31 December 2006 to US$20 per 
tonne for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
This decline was principally driven by a  
US$4 per tonne reduction in insurance 
expense, partially offset by an increase  
in transportation costs. Exchange rate 
fluctuations accounted for an increase  
of US$1 million in distribution costs.
The Energy Division
The Energy Division’s distribution costs 
increased by US$22 million, or 66.7%,  
from US$33 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$55 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2007. This 
increase was primarily due to an increase in 
transportation costs due to higher railroad 
tariffs imposed by the Kazakhstan state 
railroad monopoly. Exchange rate 
fluctuations accounted for an increase  
of US$1 million in distribution costs.
The Logistics Division
The Logistics Division’s distribution costs 
were immaterial.
Selling, General and Administrative 
Expenses
The Group
The Group’s selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased by 
US$316 million, or 109.0%, from US$290 
million for the year ended 31 December 2006 
to US$606 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. US$176 million of the 
increase was due to consulting expenses and 
employee bonuses associated with the IPO 
which were accounted for at Group level. 
Exchange rate fluctuations accounted for an 
increase of US$9 million in selling, general 
and administrative expenses.
The Ferroalloy Division
The Ferroalloy Division’s selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased by US$28 
million, or 24.8%, from US$113 million for 
the year ended 31 December 2006 to US$141 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2007. This increase was primarily in external 
consulting costs and payroll expenses. 
Included in the increase was a US$13 million 
fixed asset impairment charge for a non-
operational coke processing plant. Exchange 
rate fluctuations accounted for an increase  
of US$3 million in selling, general and 
administrative expenses.
The Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division’s selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased by US$23 
million, or 36.5%, from US$63 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2006 to US$86 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2007. This increase was primarily due to an 
increase in payroll and depreciation charges. 
Exchange rate fluctuations accounted for an 
increase of US$2 million in selling, general 
and administrative expenses.
The Alumina and Aluminium Division
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s 
selling, general and administrative expenses 
increased by US$36 million, or 94.7%,  
from US$38 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$74 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2007. US$16 
million of this increase was related to the 
construction and launch of the Group’s new 
aluminium smelter. Increases in payroll 
expenses, sponsorship and other expenses 
also contributed to the overall increase. 
Exchange rate fluctuations accounted for an 
increase of US$2 million in selling, general 
and administrative expenses.
The Energy Division
The Energy Division’s selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased by US$12 
million, or 57.1%, from US$21 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2006 to US$33 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2007. The increase was driven by a rise  
in payroll expenses, consulting fees and  
tax and royalty penalties. Exchange rate 
fluctuations accounted for an increase  
of US$1 million in selling, general and 
administrative expenses.
The Logistics Division
The Logistics Division’s selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased by US$6 
million, or 26.1%, from US$23 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2006 to US$29 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2007. This increase was primarily due to  
an increase in payroll expenses. Exchange 
rate fluctuations accounted for an increase  
of US$1 million in selling, general and 
administrative expenses.
Operating Profit
The Group
The Group’s operating profit increased by 
US$424 million, or 42.5%, from US$997 
million for the year ended 31 December  
2006 to US$1,421 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. This increase came 
primarily from the Ferroalloy and Iron Ore 
Divisions where increased revenues drove  
up operating profits (132.5% and 27.1% 
respectively of the total operating profit 
increase). The Alumina and Aluminium 
Division and the Logistics Division both  
had lower operating profit than in the prior 
year. Across the businesses, exchange rate 
fluctuations reduced operating profit by 
US$57 million. Corporate costs increased by 
US$205 million, of which US$176 million was 
the increase in exceptional items.
The Ferroalloy Division
The Ferroalloy Division’s operating profit 
increased by US$562 million, or 118.1%, 
from US$476 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$1,038 million  
for the year ended 31 December 2007.  
The increase was mainly driven by the rise  
in prices and volumes for ferroalloys,   37
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
BUSINESS REVIEW
and chrome ore. Exchange rate fluctuations 
reduced operating profit by US$25 million.
The Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division’s operating profit 
increased by US$115 million, or 47.1%,  
from US$244 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$359 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. The increase 
was primarily driven by a rise in iron ore 
prices, mainly resulting from the resolution 
of a pricing dispute with MMK. Exchange  
rate fluctuations reduced operating profit  
by US$15 million.
The Alumina and Aluminium Division
The Alumina and Aluminium Division’s 
operating profit declined by US$67 million, 
or 29.6%, from US$226 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2006 to US$159 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
Revenue was flat, reflecting stable alumina 
prices, but increases in operating costs 
adversely impacted profitability. Exchange 
rate fluctuations reduced operating profit  
by US$11 million.
The Energy Division
The Energy Division’s operating profit 
increased by US$30 million, or 73.2%,  
from US$41 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$71 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. The increase 
was mainly due to rising prices for exported 
coal and higher electricity tariffs. Exchange 
rate fluctuations reduced operating profit  
by US$4 million.
The Logistics Division
The Logistics Division’s operating profit 
declined by US$11 million, or 28.9%,  
from US$38 million for the year ended 
31 December 2006 to US$27 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2007. The reduction 
was mainly due to reduced volumes of 
railway repair services. Exchange rate 
fluctuations reduced operating profit by 
US$2 million.
Corporate
Corporate expenses, including 
administrative costs, costs of consultancy 
services and payroll expenses at the Group’s 
head office, increased by US$205 million  
in the year ended 31 December 2007. The 
increase was caused primarily by IPO costs 
increasing by US$176 million, which were 
classified as exceptional items.
Foreign exchange analysis
In order to illustrate performance and 
facilitate an understanding of the underlying 
changes in the period, the table on page 38 
sets out selected financial information of  
the Group by division for the years ended 
31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 
assuming constant exchange rates. This 
represents growth calculated as if the 
exchange rates used to translate the results 
of operations from the functional currency to 
the presentation currency in US dollars had 
remained unchanged from those used in the 
previous year. Such amounts are shown as 
‘FX neutralised’ in the table on page 38. 38
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
    Alumina and     
  Ferroalloy  Iron Ore Aluminium Energy Logistics   
  Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Group
Operating profit
2007  1,038 359 159 71 27 (233) 1,421
2006  476 244 226 41 38 (28) 997
2007 FX neutralised  1,063 374 170 75 29 (233) 1,478
FX impact  (25) (15) (11) (4) (2) – (57)
Adjusted EBITDA before exceptional items
2007  1,138 448 220 107 44 (51) 1,906
2006  547 323 277 77 54 (22) 1,256
2007 FX neutralised  1,160 461 229 110 46 (51) 1,955
FX impact  (22) (13) (9) (3) (2) – (49)
FINANCE INCOME AND  
FINANCE COSTS
Finance income and costs primarily relate to 
bank deposits, loans provided to related 
parties, such as the Eurasian Bank, and 
finance costs of the Group’s external funding. 
In December 2006, the Group entered into  
a structured trade finance facility which in 
April 2007 was increased to US$1.5 billion.  
At the end of 2007 US$1.4 billion had been 
drawn down under this agreement.
In June 2007, the Group entered into a 
Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement 
whereby loans receivable totalling US$200 
million owed to the Group by related 
parties, controlled and beneficially owned 
by the Founder Shareholders, and loans 
payable totalling US$391 million owed by 
the Group to related parties, controlled and 
beneficially owned by the Founders, were 
re-assigned to CIM Global Investment NV, 
which is not a part of the Group but is 
controlled and beneficially owned by the 
Founder Shareholders. The net US$191 
million has been settled.
As a part of the pre-IPO restructuring process 
the Group issued US$1 billion of promissory 
notes to related parties. The notes were fully 
repaid in 2007. 
Year ended 3 December 2007 
compared to year ended 
3 December 2006
The Group’s financial income increased by 
141.7% (US$34 million), from US$24 million 
in the year ended 31 December 2006 to 
US$58 in the year ended 31 December 2007. 
The growth occurred because of income from 
investments (US$20 million), interest on 
loans granted to associated and third parties 
(US$10 million) and the interest on bank 
deposits increasing by US$4 million.
The Group’s financial costs increased by 
216.0% (US$108 million), from US$50 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2006 to US$158 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007. The increase was 
caused primarily by the interest payments 
on borrowing rising by US$62 million, bank 
interest payments going up by US$41 
million and interest payments of  
(other) financial obligations going up  
by US$10 million.
INCOME TAx E xPENSE
The Group’s income tax expense for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 was US$507 
million, an effective tax rate of 38.4%, 
compared with US$285 million, and an 
effective tax rate of 29.4%, for the year  
ended 31 December 2006.
The increase in the Group’s effective tax rate 
is mainly due to costs relating to the IPO  
(4.3 percentage points) and UK head office 
costs on which deferred tax has not been 
recognised (2.9 percentage points).
Going forward, the Group expects the 
recurring effective rate of tax to be in excess 
of 30% due to excess profits tax arising in 
Kazakhstan on certain subsoil contracts.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL 
RESOURCES
Liquidity
Overview
The following table summarises the  
Group’s cash flow during the years ended 
31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007. 
 
In millions of US$ 2007 2006
Cash flow from  
 operating activities 1,079 739
Net cash used for  
 investing activities (1,351) (573)
Net cash generated from  
 financing activities 2,481 –
Net increase in cash and  
 cash equivalents 2,209 166
Cash and cash equivalents  
 at beginning of the year 336 165
Exchange gains on cash  
 and cash equivalents 3  5
Cash and cash equivalents  
 at the end of the period 2,548 336
Cash flow from operating activities
The Group generated US$1,079 million as 
cash from operating activities for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 as against US$739 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2006; the cash increase being US$340 
million or 46.0%. The profit after tax is 
US$814 million (2006 : US$686 million). 
Subject to adjustments for the depreciation 
and impairment of fixed assets, the 
operating cash flow increased by US$303 
million (2006 : US$253 million) and, on 
account of the fair value adjustments on the 
derivative financial instruments, it increased 
by another US$46 million (2006 : US$nil). 
Due to changes in the working capital, the 
cash flow generated from operating activities 
decreased by US$130 million (2006 : 
US$221 million). The amount of interest paid 
exceeded interest received resulting in a net  39
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
BUSINESS REVIEW
outflow of cash to the amount of US$99 
million (2006 : US$37 million). Income tax 
payments resulted in an outflow of cash 
amounting to US$469 million (2006 : 
US$277 million).
Net cash used for  
investing activities
The Group used US$1,351 million for 
investing activities in 2007 as opposed to 
US$573 million in 2006; the increase being 
US$778 million or 135.8%. Most of these 
cash resources, US$1,042 million in 2007 
(2006 : US$504 million), were directed to 
financing capital expenses, that is, for 
purchasing fixed assets. Of this amount, 
prepayments for fixed assets (included in 
other non-current assets) totalled US$208 
million in 2007 (2006 : US$33 million). 
40.0% of the Group’s capital expenditure  
in 2007, amounting to US$365 million, 
consisted of payments for fixed assets  
for the Alumina and Aluminium Division, 
including US$201 million in 2007 (2006 : 
US$133 million) for the construction of the 
new aluminium smelter, and US$141 million 
for expanding alumina production. For the 
reconstruction and replacement of the Iron 
Ore Division’s fixed assets the Group 
invested US$227 million in 2007 (2006 : 
US$107 million). In 2007, the Group spent 
US$279 million on capital repairs, compared 
with US$233 million invested in 2006 for  
this purpose. 
The inflow of cash from the sale of fixed 
assets, intangible assets and investments 
amounted to US$70 million in 2007 (2006 : 
US$21 million). The outflow of cash on 
investments amounted to US$100 million  
in 2007 (2006 : US$17 million).
Net cash used for  
financing activities
The Group used cash resources to the net 
amount of US$2,481 million in its financing 
activities during the year ended 31 December 
2007 (2006 : US$nil). The main sources of 
cash inflows were: issue of shares on the 
IPO, amounting to US$3,055 million 
excluding charges for the IPO; as well as 
proceeds from loans amounting to US$1,423 
million in 2007 (2006 : US$328 million), of 
which none were with related parties (2006 : 
US$136 million). Cash outflows occurred as  
a result of making payments on loans to the 
amount of US$1,240 million (2006 : US$141 
million), of which US$1,011 million was to 
related parties (2006 : US$140 million),  
from paying shareholders’ dividends to the 
amount of US$500 million (2006 : US$nil) 
and paying minority interest dividends of 
US$66 million (2006 : US$4 million).
CAPITAL RESOURCES
Bank debt
Prior to 2006, the Group’s principal source of 
liquidity for its operations was cash provided 
by its operating activities and the Group 
funded its working capital requirements 
through short-term financing facilities. As 
part of the legal restructuring initiative in 
2006, the Group created a liability in favour 
of its shareholders through the issue of 
promissory notes amounting to US$1 billion.
In parallel to the restructuring, the Group 
secured a structured trade finance facility 
initially amounting to US$1,480 million in 
2007. US$1,374 has been drawn on this 
facility as at 31 December 2007. The facility 
is denominated in US dollars, bears interest 
at a rate of LIBOR + 1.35% and is repayable  
in 48 equal monthly instalments beginning  
in January 2008. The loan is secured by 
grants of security over certain of the 
Ferroalloy Division’s accounts and sales 
contracts backed by a guarantee given  
by Kazchrome, the Ferroalloy Division’s 
principal operating company. The Group 
agreed to certain restrictive covenants in 
respect of Kazchrome, as guarantor of the 
loan, which prohibit Kazchrome from having 
total debt of greater than US$1,500 million 
outstanding at any time during the duration 
of the facility. In addition, the guarantee 
provides that Kazchrome may pay dividends 
only if the amount of a dividend in any 
financial year does not exceed Kazchrome’s 
net income for the financial year. Kazchrome 
may still declare a dividend in excess of  
net income if immediately after payment  
of such dividend the ratio of Kazchrome’s 
total equity to total debt would be equal to  
or greater than 0.4:1. The guarantee places 
certain restrictions on Kazchrome’s activities 
including, inter alia, to make loans, give 
guarantees or indemnities, create security 
interests, or change its business, and 
requires Kazchrome to, inter alia, maintain 
all authorisations applicable to it, comply 
with all laws applicable to it, maintain  CAPEX STRUCTURE 2006
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2007
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2006
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2007
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2006
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2007
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2006
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2007
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2006
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2007
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2006
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2007
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2006
CAPEX STRUCTURE 2007
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2006
NEW CONSTRUCTION & 
DEVELOPMENT 2007
40
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
certain insurance coverage and maintain full 
ownership of the ferroalloy production 
facilities.
CAPITAL ExPENDITURES
During the year ended 31 December 2007 the 
Group’s capital expenditure amounted to 
US$911 million as compared to US$563 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2006, an increase of US$348 million or 
61.8%. The charts opposite show the 
purpose of the capital expenditure.
Almost two-thirds of capital expenditure in 
2007 related to investment in new property 
construction and development, amounting to 
US$581 million, which was US$300 million 
higher than in 2006.
New construction and development was 
spread across the Divisions (see charts), 
however, costs of the new smelter were 
reflected in the Alumina and Aluminium 
Division’s larger share of the capital 
expenditure US$342 million of this amount 
corresponded to investment in fixed assets 
for the Alumina and Aluminium Division, 
US$108 million for the Energy Division, 
US$60 million for the Ferroalloys Division, 
US$58 million for the Iron Ore Division and 
US$13 million for the Logistics Division.
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
2006 Capex structure
New construction and development 52%
Other capital expenditure 5%
Capacities maintenance and equipment
replacement 43%
2007 Capex structure
New construction and development 66%
Other capital expenditure 3%
Capacities maintenance and equipment
replacement 31%
2007 New construction and development
Alumina 40%
Energy 9%
Ferroalloys 19%
Iron ore 25%
Logistics 6%
2006 New construction and development
Alumina 40%
Energy 8%
Ferroalloys 30%
Iron ore 19%
 Logistics 3% 4 ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
A list of the largest Group investment projects is shown below: 
  Estimated Capex Date of 
  cost of budget comm- 
In millions of US$  completion 2008 issioning
Ferroalloys
700k tonnes pelletiser  85 70 2009
200k tonnes expansion of ferroalloy smelting capacity (Aksu) 160 5 2010
Capital repairs and other projects  165 165
Alumina and Aluminium
Phase 2 – aluminium smelter (125k tonnes)  330 240 2010
Alumina production expansion by 300k tonnes  160 80 2010
Caustic soda plant  150 80 2010
Anode production plant  175 100 2010
Sandy alumina production  70 45 2010
Capital repairs and other projects  170 170
Iron Ore
Pelletiser (4 million tonnes) and DRI plant
(1.8 million tonnes)  800 365 2011
Mine expansion by 4 million tonnes  275 30 2011
Capital repairs and other projects  145 145
Energy
Overburden stripping equipment  80 55 2010
Refurbishment of Turbine 1  40 40 2008
Construction of Turbine 2 – 325 megawatt  190 75 2011
Capital repairs and other projects  35 35
Logistics
China gateway project  910 – 2011
Capital repairs and other projects  20 20
Total approved  3,960 1,720
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following table sets out the Group’s material contractual obligations and their maturity 
as at 31 December 2007. See notes 26, 27 and 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
on pages 96, 98 and 101 of this Annual Report for additional information about the Group’s 
contractual obligations: 
  Between   
 Within two and More than  
In millions of US$ one year five years five years Total
Borrowings 359 1,033 32 1,424
Operating leases 15 24 87 126
Asset retirement obligations – – 86 86
Capital expenditures – committed 311 181 5 497
BUSINESS REVIEW 42
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Borrowings
On 31 December 2007, the balance of the 
structured trade finance facility was US$1.4 
billion.
Asset retirement obligations
The Group has obligations under its 
subsurface use contracts and licences, 
calculated as a percentage of the revenue or 
expense associated with the contract or 
licence, to provide annual (or quarterly) 
amounts towards the cost of rehabilitating 
each mine or group of mines. This amount is 
generally from 0.1% to 1.0% of operational 
expenses for mines or from 0.1% to 1.0% of 
sales revenue. Certain of the subsurface use 
contracts and licences require that these 
amounts be held in a fixed account, while 
others require such amounts to be accrued.
In addition, abandonment programmes are 
developed by the Group in conjunction with 
the Kazakhstani Government to estimate the 
future liability of site restoration. As of 
31 December 2007, the Group had a site 
restoration provision of US$43 million, 
reflecting the discounted value of the 
estimated cost of the abandonment 
programmes.
Long-term supply agreements
In addition to the contractual obligations 
listed above, the Group also has the 
following long-term supply agreements:
Alumina – ENRC has entered into a 
contract with United Company RUSAL, a 
large aluminium producer, to supply a 
minimum of 1 million tonnes of alumina 
per annum. This contract expires on 
31 December 2016. Pricing is determined 
by a formula linked to the LME aluminium 
price.
Aluminium – ENRC has entered into a 10 
year contract to sell 100% of aluminium 
produced by the Kazakhstan aluminium 
smelter to Glencore. Pricing is determined 
by reference to the LME aluminium price 
less sales commission.
Iron ore – ENRC has entered into a 
contract with MMK, a large Russian steel 
producer, to supply up to 15 million 
tonnes of iron ore per annum. This 
contract expires in 2017. Pricing is 
determined by reference to published 
price indices for iron ore concentrates  
and pellets.
>
>
>
DISCLOSURES ABOUT  
MARKET RISK
The Group is exposed to changes in 
commodity prices, foreign exchange rates 
and interest rates through its operations.
Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to the effect of 
fluctuations in commodity prices. The 
principal exposures are to the price of 
chrome ore, high-, medium- and low-carbon 
ferroalloys, ferrosilicomanganese, iron  
ore and primary aluminium from which the 
price of alumina is derived. Prices of these 
commodities are generally quoted in US 
dollars. Of the foregoing products, only the 
price of primary aluminium is determined  
by reference to a publicly traded price.  
Price variations and market cycles have 
historically influenced the financial results  
of the Group and are expected to continue  
to do so. 
ENRC does not hedge its exposure to the risk 
of fluctuations in the price of its products 
and currently does not intend to do so in  
the future.
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
The Group has foreign currency exposures. 
Such exposures arise from sales or 
purchases by an operating subsidiary in 
currencies other than the subsidiary’s 
functional currency. The currency giving  
rise to this risk is primarily the US dollar for 
revenue and certain cash deposits and 
loans. As at 31 December 2007, the Group 
had entered into a number of foreign 
exchange forward contracts to hedge part of 
this risk. Management estimates that those 
contracts effectively provide for an average 
rate of US$1/KZT120 over two years and 
represent approximately 25% of the Group’s 
Kazakhstani tenge cost base. Any remaining 
amount remains unhedged.
Interest rate risk
The Group has financial assets and liabilities 
that are exposed to changes in market 
interest rates. Changes in variable interest 
rates impact primarily on deposits, loans and 
borrowings by changing their future cash 
flows. Management does not have a formal 
policy of determining how much of the 
Group’s exposure should be at fixed or 
variable rates and the Group does not use 
hedging instruments to minimise its 
exposure. However, at the time of taking new 
loans or borrowings, management uses its 
judgement to determine whether it believes 
that a fixed or variable rate would be more 
favourable for the Group over the expected 
period until maturity. The Group’s significant 
interest bearing assets are disclosed in 
notes 20, 21, 23, 24 and 26 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 
92 to 96 of this Annual Report. The majority 
of these assets and liabilities bear fixed 
interest and are thus exposed to fair value 
interest rate risk.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
The Group has no off-balance sheet 
arrangements.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING  
POLICIES AND USE OF  
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
For a discussion of our critical accounting 
policies refer to note 2 of the financial 
statements on page 78 of this document.
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 43
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  
44-45
OUR GOVERNANCE OF HSES
45-47
SAFETY AND HEALTH
47-48
ENVIRONMENT
48-49
SOCIAL POLICY
49
COMMUNITIES
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Our strategic success depends on ensuring 
that we conduct all our business in a manner 
which delivers against our objectives of 
corporate responsibility and sustainable 
development. These objectives are already 
integral to the way we do business. They are 
especially evident in our business planning 
processes and in the development, in 2007, 
of our core values which provide a consistent 
and shared basis for all our business 
activities. However, we constantly strive to 
improve our corporate responsibility and 
sustainable development in particular as we 
grow our business and extend our influence 
and impact. 
We routinely refer to ‘corporate 
responsibility’ and ‘sustainable 
development’ through this report. For us 
‘corporate responsibility’ is about the way 
we operate as a business. Sustainable 
development is managing the total impact of 
our business for the longer term. Our Health, 
Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
(HSES) Committee is the Board level 
Committee accountable for managing and 
monitoring our ability and success in 
delivering these objectives. 
This is our first formal report on corporate 
responsibility and sustainable development. 
It sets out our philosophy and governance 
approach and includes information on our 
priorities for 2008. It explains our activity 
and performance in 2007 in those areas 
which we consider to be fundamental to  
our delivery of the principles of corporate 
responsibility and sustainable development. 
We expect to extend our reporting on these 
matters in future years. 
We aspire to extend and improve our 
governance and performance to operate in 
line with international expectations and 
practices for the mining industry in this area. 
In order to do this, we started a number of 
new programmes in 2007 to identify where 
we need to focus effort and resource. We are 
using the International Council for Mining 
and Metals (ICMM) to guide our plans.  
In 2008 we will begin to obtain more 
comprehensive data, in line with 
international standards where possible.  
We will then use this information to develop 
updated action plans and set targets. In line 
with ICMM guidelines and intent, we are 
committed to increasing transparency 
through providing relevant and reliable 
information that enables our external 
stakeholders to understand our current 
position and future plans and how these  
will support our overall business strategy. 
We have demonstrated consistent 
commitment to corporate responsibility  
and sustainable development that places  
us among the best practice companies in 
Kazakhstan. However, becoming a FTSE 100 
company, combined with our increasing 
international presence, puts new demands 
and expectations on us. It is a priority  
for us to achieve adherence to relevant 
international best practice and recognised 
standards and norms. We will commit the 
necessary capital funds and management 
time to this effort. We will also seek external 
support where required to help us prioritise 
areas for focus and to implement effective 
and efficient initiatives and programmes. 
Many of our investment and behavioural 
programmes will take a number of years to 
complete and show full results, however  
we hope that some improvements will be 
evident each year and our reporting will 
present our progress and results. 
OUR GOVERNANCE OF HSES 
Our governance structure is in a period of 
development and transition, reflecting the 
UK listing in 2007 as well as the change to 
more central governance and control. The 
Group HSES Committee (the ‘Committee’)  
is a delegated Committee of the Board. The 
Committee was established in late 2007.  
It is chaired by Dr Johannes Sittard, the  
Chief Executive Officer. Mr Eduard Utepov 
(non-executive Director), Mr Felix Vulis  
(Chief Operating Officer of Kazakhstan), and 
Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev (non-executive 
Director) are members of this Committee. The 
membership and operation of the Committee 
will be kept under review in 2008 during its 
first full year of operation to ensure that it  
is able to meet its governance objectives.  
We will identify, in particular, the manner  
in which the HSES Committee connects with 
other Committees to help ensure effective 
and complete integration of corporate 
responsibility and sustainable development 
into other business processes.
The Committee is responsible to the Board 
for formulating and recommending a policy 
on health, safety and environmental issues 
and sustainable development. It will meet at 
least twice a year and report to the Board on 
a bi-annual basis. 
The HSES Committee will focus on: 
Understanding the requirements of the 
external environment and advising the 
Board on an appropriate policy response.
Driving compliance with applicable norms 
and standards through the definition of 
Group policies and development of 
appropriate internal governance.
Ensuring that an effective system of 
health and safety and environmental 
standards, procedures and practices is in 
place at each of the Group’s operations 
through monitoring and oversight.
Reviewing management’s investigation  
of incidents or accidents that occur to 
assess whether policy improvements  
are required.
Whilst the Committee is expected to  
make recommendations, the ultimate 
responsibility for establishing the Group’s 
health, safety and environment policy will 
remain with the Board.
The Committee is supported by an HSES 
Working Group which comprises the Group 
Heads of Environment, Health and Safety, 
Human Resources and Social Policy. The 
Working Group is responsible for monitoring 
of HSE programme implementation, 
development of action plans and providing 
proposals on operational improvements  
to the HSES Committee. The Working  
Group presents bi-annual reports to the 
HSES Committee.
The functional roles present in the Working 
Group are replicated at the operating sites. 
Divisional responsibilities are also in place 
but are currently being further formalised 
with the migration towards a Group 
structure. The Divisional changes are 
particularly evident in respect of health  
and safety management where, in order to 
comply with Kazakhstan legal requirements, 
each Division is required to have a health 
and safety department independent of 
operational management. These changes 
have been completed in the Ferroalloy 
Division, the Alumina and Aluminium 
Division and Iron Ore Division during 2007.  
>
>
>
>
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
44 Development of a common corporate culture 
and consistent conduct is a priority for ENRC. 
The Board adopted a Code of Conduct in 
2007, which expects each employee and 
Director to observe the highest ethical 
standards and to exercise good judgement in 
performing their duties. Presentations of the 
Code of Conduct were made at each operating 
site and Astana and London offices before 
the end of 2007. A whistleblowing policy was 
also established, which will be disseminated 
throughout the Group during 2008. 
ENRC was the first organisation in 
Kazakhstan to become a signatory to the  
UN Global Compact. This role has provided 
opportunity for dialogue with other 
corporations in Kazakhstan. We have 
conducted a workshop for other Kazakhstani 
enterprises which are members of the Global 
Compact (Kazpochta – state postal company, 
Kazcommerce bank, Alliance Bank and 
others) to create a framework on reporting 
and monitoring. It is planned to create a 
Global Compact Network under the umbrella 
of the UN Programme in Kazakhstan and 
ENRC is directly involved in this process. 
ENRC is also an active member of the 
Kazakhstan Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (KBCSD) formed in line with the 
recognised World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development.
Key areas for HSES governance 
developments in 2008
Our goals for 2008 are to:
take steps to further develop the 
governance structure including 
monitoring of the work of the HSES 
Committee, implementing common 
frameworks and strengthening the 
divisional role;
review the scope of Group policy 
arrangements relevant to corporate 
responsibility and sustainable 
development to identify gaps and areas 
which require further development, 
including development of the Group 
Sustainable Development Policy;
extend and formalise current 
arrangements for internal reporting  
of performance including divisional 
reporting to the HSES Committee and 
from the Committee to the Board;
review our governance arrangements and 
reporting policies, in particular for safety,  
 
>
>
>
>
including increasing the responsibility of 
operating site Directors; and
continue our work under the Global 
Compact Network and undertake more 
structured dialogue with our key 
stakeholders to assist us to determine 
areas for priority.
Key matters 
As identified in Risk Factors, on pages 22 to 
23 of this report, the continuing development 
of Kazakhstani environmental, health, safety 
and social regulations are identified as a  
key risk for the Group. We recognise that 
regulatory developments will demand 
increased investment in our equipment  
and infrastructure and may bring increased 
remediation and compensation costs. In 
2007, the total annual costs of complying 
with existing legislation, including operating 
costs, capital expenditure and the obligatory 
environmental fees were US$92 million 
(2006 : US$48 million). As part of the listing 
process in 2007, the Group engaged a UK 
consulting group to assess the Group’s 
environment status with respect to material, 
operational, environmental and key health 
and safety issues with anticipated cost 
implications exceeding €1 million. The 
exercise included work with 27 ENRC 
operating sites. It did not include attention  
to socio-economic impacts, greenhouse gas 
emissions, potential third party liabilities or 
end-of-life closure costs (asset retirement 
obligations). The work identified estimated 
costs of €100 million to achieve compliance 
with Kazakhstani standards and a further 
€100 million to meet international 
standards. These budgets have been 
allocated. Following from this work, 2008 
priorities are to achieve improved standards 
in hazardous materials management.
We will be completing a Group-wide  
HSES evaluation in 2008 in order to  
identify key matters and risks on a more 
systematic basis. 
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Safety
Safety is a matter in which we cannot afford 
to under deliver. We know, therefore, that  
we must constantly strive to improve safety 
standards. Safety has been an area  
of focus in 2007 and this emphasis will 
continue into 2008. 
>
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
45
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
In 2007 we completed an internal health  
and safety review and reported to the 
Executive Committee in August 2007. Our 
work identified that the primary factors 
leading to health and safety incidents are:
Behaviours and mindsets. 
Working conditions.
Condition of equipment and 
infrastructure. 
The work shows that 80% of accidents at 
ENRC are the result of human behaviour and 
culture, with the remainder resulting from 
violations of safety rules. Our analysis shows 
that 70% of the accidents in 2007 involved 
employees with less than three years’ 
experience. The behavioural element of 
safety improvement has been an area of 
attention. US$1 million was spent on health 
and safety training in both 2007 and 2006. 
Action plans are being developed at the 
operating sites. A number of changes  
to infrastructure and investments have  
been taken in 2007 to reduce safety  
hazards including:
investments in two plants to process  
fines and produce pellets to reduce  
metal spitting (Kazchrome);
purchase of lifting equipment and an 
oxygen pipeline system in Aksu Ferroalloy 
plant to eliminate manual handling in 
some situations;
installation of locator ‘chips’ into miners’ 
equipment to monitor their location and 
enable early warning; and
pneumatic guns installed on ore 
transportation equipment to reduce 
manual labour.
The due diligence performed as part of the 
listing process highlighted occupational 
health and safety as a major area needing 
management attention. Dedicated work 
programmes were identified to be necessary 
at some operating sites, including 
replacement of out-of-date equipment and 
purchasing of small-scale equipment to 
reduce manual handling. Further external 
safety review work is planned in 2008. This 
will involve use of the ‘international health 
and safety consultancy’ framework to 
understand and respond to health and  
safety risks.
Despite our efforts we must constantly strive 
to improve. As stated by both the Chairman 
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
and the Chief Executive Officer, we were  
very disappointed that we had 15 fatalities, 
through 14 separate incidents (2006 : 11 
fatalities). Seven of these incidents occurred 
in SSGPO. Each fatal event is immediately 
reported to the Enforcing Authorities, insurers 
and to the Executive Director, Head of 
Communications and Chief Executive Officer 
via our incident notification system. A full 
enquiry is instigated including involvement  
of line managers from the department where 
the accident occurred, who are ultimately 
responsible for implementing 
recommendations, a health and safety 
representative, an employee experienced  
in the work activity and a representative of 
the trade union. 
We achieved improvement in 2007 in safety 
performance in terms of accident frequency 
with the Group’s Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate (LTIFR), measured per 1,000,000 hours 
worked, at 0.58 (2006 : 0.77). There were  
63 reported work related injuries in 2007 
(2006 : 85). Five of these accident events 
were disabling (2006 : 14). Kazakhstani 
legislation does not require recording of 
minor injuries, nor sub contractor injuries. 
Therefore our reporting definitions and 
procedures will need to be extended to align 
to international practice on safety reporting.
Analysis of the accident events, including  
the fatal events in 2007, show consistency  
in the primary causes which include, in  
order of occurrence:
Struck by moving and falling objects. 
Falls from height.
Electrical hazards.
Road traffic accidents.
Falls as a result of slips.
Influence of extreme temperatures.
All these events cause us deep concern as 
management and we will remain diligent in 
investigating the causes and taking steps to 
achieve our goal of zero fatalities. In direct 
response to the accident and fatality events 
in 2007 we have:
reviewed the register of out-of-date 
equipment to be replaced and changed 
that equipment presenting highest risk;
conducted an investigation into changing 
mining and technical conditions and 
stability of rock in the mining divisions;
conducted an internal audit of special 
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
guard equipment as well as the fire 
extinguishing equipment leading to  
plans to replace equipment;
introduced the requirement for 
appropriate training of new starters and 
employees with less than three years 
experience and created a post for a 
specialist instructor; and
implemented a new system of accident 
registration and analysis.
During 2007 we paid health and safety fines 
and penalties of US$20,000 (2006 : 
US$7,000). The number of compensation 
cases increased to 30 cases (2004–2006 : 
approximately 25 cases annually) and 
payments increased to US$29,000 per  
case (2004–2006 : annually approximately 
US$27,000 per case).
Looking ahead
We will strive to make further improvements 
in this area as a priority in 2008. Key areas of 
safety management focus in 2008 will 
include:
US$95 million budgeted for the 
replacement of older equipment;
Delivery of further training of chief 
engineers and chief technical managers 
(30 employees) on the international 
certification programme on occupational 
safety (UK standards); 
The introduction of Group-wide near-miss 
and no-blame reporting procedures;
The initiation of the Safety Training 
Observation Programme (STOP) to 
provide a guideline for safe behaviour;
Establish ‘Experience Exchange 
Programmes’ to share best practice for 
labour protection with relevant internal 
specialists; and 
Review our current reporting definitions 
and procedures against international 
norms with further development to 
improve alignment where required.
We will work to improve safety performance, 
both accidents and fatalities, compared with 
2007 (when considered on the same basis). 
However with a potential broadening of 
reporting scope, deterioration in reported 
safety performance may occur in the  
short term. 
Health
Prevention and monitoring of the health and 
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
46 welfare of our employees has been a core 
part of management programmes at ENRC for 
a number of years. Provision of employee 
health and medical surveillance programmes 
is an expected part of corporate duties in 
Kazakhstan. We believe our programmes are 
among best practice in Kazakhstan with 
provision of voluntary extended programmes 
to our employees and their families.
As a result of our own work and the due 
diligence completed in 2007, we have 
identified a number of areas where we need 
to make investments in plant and equipment 
to reduce the health risk to our employees. 
Whilst in compliance with local standards,  
in a number of areas the workplace 
environment would not comply with 
international occupational health standards 
and norms (see Looking Ahead, below). 
We have already put in place a number of 
initiatives in 2007 including:
Replacement of old equipment with 
equipment featuring enhanced health and 
safety design (for example, reduced 
vibration, better ergonomics).
Purchase of small-scale equipment to 
eliminate manual handling in some 
situations.
Purchase of new up-to-date personal 
protection equipment.
The Group has a special healthcare 
programme and spent US$10 million in 2007 
(2006 : US$9 million) for employee medical 
treatment which covers in excess of 40%  
of all employees. Kazchrome and EEC 
expenditure on additional medical services, 
beyond those required by legislation, equates 
to an additional spend of $600 per employee 
per annum.
Looking ahead
Key goals for occupational health 
improvement in 2008 will include:
extended attention to the proactive 
reduction of occupational health risks 
through changes in the working 
environment, working practices and 
behaviours;
investment in improved preventative 
measures at a number of operations to 
reduce occupational health exposures 
and achieve international standards. 
These programmes will include those 
>
>
>
>
>
dealing with dust control, ventilation, 
noise control, vibration and machine 
guarding. The necessary improvements 
are expected to take a number of years  
to complete;
implementation of a Group wide 
campaign to enforce improved use of 
personal protective equipment across  
all operating sites; and
implementation of near-miss reporting  
in health performance including, for 
example, reporting of micro-traumatism 
events.
ENVIRONMENT
Environmental protection has been a focus 
for management attention for a number of 
years. In 2003, ENRC initiated a phased 
implementation of formal management 
systems. This included the implementation 
of ISO 9001 systems for all operations, 
including ISO 14001 environmental 
management systems for Ferroalloys, Iron 
Ore, Alumina and Aluminium, and Energy 
Divisions. The Group was the first 
organisation in Kazakhstan to implement an 
environmental management system certified 
for ISO 14001. The Group’s operations have 
obtained all required material contracts, 
licences and permits. A new Environmental 
Code was adopted in Kazakhstan in January 
2007 introducing changes to the regulatory 
mechanism, including the concept of Best 
Available Techniques (BAT). This should 
bring Kazakhstani environmental regulation 
closer to that of the EU. ENRC is involved in 
the development of the technical 
specifications for some of the new industry 
standards which are being prepared to 
support implementation of the new Code.
Although there are no current or anticipated 
regulatory obligations in Kazakhstan that 
require the Group to conform to best 
international practises, the Group is 
addressing a number of these issues. During 
2007 we have undertaken a number of 
investment projects to reduce our 
environmental impact, for example:
Completion of replacement of two 
turbines with more efficient equipment 
and the installation of four modern air 
emission filters at the EEC Power Plant to 
reduce air pollutants, such as dust and 
nitrogen oxides, from the facility. 
Completion of a BAT assessment for main 
>
>
>
>
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
47
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
operations by an international 
engineering and technical consulting firm.
Emphasis on resource conservation 
objectives in business plans (see Looking 
Ahead below).
ENRC monitors or estimates its air emissions, 
wastewater discharges and the amount of 
waste it has generated; and tests the quality 
of ambient air, nearby surface water, soil  
and groundwater. Renewal of environmental 
permits requires the submission of an annual 
statistical report on the monitoring results  
to Kazakhstan’s environmental authorities, 
compliance with the permits’ provisions and 
the fulfilment of any environmental payment 
obligations, which include payments for 
routine operations and any non-compliance 
penalties. 
Kazakhstan’s environmental authorities have 
also conducted inspections of ENRC site 
operations. In 2007 the amount of state 
inspection penalties was US $42,000 (2006 : 
US$24,000) according to the registered 
claims of inspections. 
Currently Kazakhstan does not have a 
regulatory or legal basis for calculating and 
reporting greenhouse gas emissions 
including carbon dioxide, methane and 
others. ENRC, working jointly with KBCSD, 
developed and applied a methodology for 
determining power plant emissions. Further 
work will be undertaken in this area.
We have begun automation of our collection 
and reporting of environmental information 
during 2007 with the introduction of the KIT 
web-based reporting system which will 
retain source entry data and consolidate 
through to Group level. This system will allow 
us to provide improved reporting on 
environmental performance. 
Performance data for the Energy, Iron Ore 
and Ferroalloy Divisions show a general 
trend of reduced impact compared to 2006; 
in particular:
A reduction in energy consumption per 
unit produced between 2% and 7% across 
the three divisions;
A 4% reduction in waste generated per 
unit of chromium iron ore mined;
>
>
>
A 15% decrease in wastewater discharge 
per unit of iron ore concentrate and 
pellets produced;
A 5% reduction in water consumed  
per unit of electricity produced by the 
Energy Division;
A 25% increase in the volume of waste 
processed and sold to third parties by  
the Energy Division for reuse; and
Air emission improvements were achieved 
in the Energy Division with a decrease of 
16% and 22% of sulphur dioxide and 
particulate matter respectively per unit of 
electricity produced.
No major environmental incidents occurred 
in 2007.
Looking ahead
During 2008 we will continue our 
environmental programmes. Key areas of 
attention will include:
Technical upgrades including a US$2.3 
million investment at the AoK power 
station to reduce water losses;
Processing of slag wastes from ferroalloys 
production and ferrochromium slag 
expected to reduce slag disposal by 
approximately 300,000 tonnes and 1 
million tonnes per annum respectively;
Installation of a mine drainage collection 
system expected to reduce wastewater 
discharge by approximately 3.5 million m
3
 
per annum; and
KAS improvements to two gas purification 
units in the smelting shop enabling 
reduced gaseous emissions.
SOCIAL POLICY
The Group has developed a reputation for 
being a socially oriented and responsible 
business. It is a party to all governmental 
agreements, programmes and initiatives 
related to implementation of the Law of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan ‘On Social 
Partnership’ and global social accountability 
principles. 
ENRC is in the process of preparing a 
consistent Group-wide social framework to 
replace separate operating site policies. The 
social policy focuses on two overlapping 
areas: Employees and Communities.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
Employees
During 2007 the Group employed 64,150 
employees and used more than 400 
individuals as contractors. This places ENRC 
as one of the largest employers in 
Kazakhstan. As identified in Risk Factors  
on pages 22 and 23 of this report our 
success depends significantly on our ability 
to attract, retain and motivate key senior 
management and employees. We have 
developed extensive human capital 
programmes which are outlined below. 
Further data on our human capital 
performance will be reported in 2008.
The Group benefits from good labour 
relations and since it acquired its operating 
assets, it has not experienced any material 
strikes or work stoppages at any of its 
operating sites. Over 95% of employees are 
members of trade unions. In 2007, due to 
new Kazakhstani Labour Code requirements, 
the Group carried out a series of negotiations 
with three major trade unions on 
remuneration policies, work conditions and 
social benefits to be provided to the 
employees. Following this, the Group has 
well-balanced industrial agreements, which 
serve as a basis for the collective 
agreements each Group company has signed 
with the employees. In addition to the social 
rights and benefits guaranteed by the 
Kazakhstani Labour Code, these agreements 
provide for free medical treatment, loans at 
favourable mortgage rates, training of 
employees and their children and 
preferential packages to sanatoriums, 
recreation centres, and children’s recreation 
camps. Special social programmes are 
developed for both youths and pensioners.
All Group companies in good faith fulfil all 
requirements under sub-surface licence 
conditions. On a quarterly basis each Group 
company submits reports to the applicable 
government agencies on social responsibility 
and personnel training requirements.
The Group plans to continue its work on 
attraction and retention of required 
personnel by means of social package 
improvements.
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
48 49
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
ENRC has a number of employee programmes 
in place including:
Housing development and transfer 
programme (2007 expenditure  
$20 million).
Training programmes and professional 
skills upgrade programmes.
Youth programmes.
Health and disease prevention 
programmes.
Recreational programmes.
Sport programmes.
Training programmes for workers’ 
children.
Programmes for veterans and pensioners.
In addition to the social programmes, the 
Talent Management Programme is a key 
priority for the Group. During 2007 US$4 
million was spent on training and 
development related programmes. Our 
training and development programmes are 
focused on three major levels: managers, 
specialists and workers. In the year 2007 we 
trained 1,300 managers, 15,000 specialists 
and officers, and 17,000 workers.
The main training programmes comprise:
Training and retraining of employees to 
perform their roles;
Training in skills closely related to current 
responsibilities; and
Skills upgrades.
In order to accelerate the development of our 
management team we implemented an ‘ENRC 
Managers Training Programme’ comprising 
ENRC Manager Standard for junior 
management, ENRC Mini-MBA for middle 
management and the MBA programme of 
Moscow State University Higher School of 
Business for senior management. 
During 2007, we developed a succession 
plan for key positions in Kazakhstan. The 
Succession Plan includes 56 senior 
management positions, comprising 112 
individuals, including general managers, 
their deputies, chief accountants and heads 
of operational units. The average age of 
those individuals included in the Succession 
Plan is 42.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
Looking ahead
Key areas for focus in 2008 will include:
Continuation of the Talent Management 
Programme.
The ‘One Stop Shop’ Project will start to 
be implemented at each of the Group’s 
site operations to optimise the social 
benefits package, enhance its efficiency 
and ensure transparency. This will allow 
each enterprise to create unified centres 
where an employee can receive all 
relevant information on social benefits 
and prepare necessary application 
documents with qualified assistance. 
 
COMMUNITIES
Maintenance of a responsible social contract 
with the communities in which we operate is 
an established practice in ENRC. Often ENRC 
is the only industry operating in towns and 
some of the cities near ENRC operating sites 
depend on the infrastructure development 
pursued by ENRC. Each year the Group signs 
regional agreements with the Governors of 
Karaganda, Pavlodar, Aktubinsk and 
Kostanai regions. The main areas of 
sponsorship and charity under these 
agreements include:
Development of the healthcare system. 
Vocational system of education.
Support for small towns and villages. 
City improvement programmes.
Assistance in the development of 
educational, cultural and sports facilities. 
Rendering assistance to vulnerable 
populations. 
Financing places of worship. 
The Group expenditure for Community Social 
Investment in 2007 amounted to US$34 
million) (2006 : US$24 million). This includes 
donations and gifts in kind to communities in 
which we operate and includes donations to 
public funds.
In October 2007, the Group received the 
Kazakhstani National Award ‘Tanym’ 
(Recognition) in the category ‘Socially 
Responsible Business is a Competitive 
Business’. 
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
In 2007, the Group:
presented the public health services of 
Karaganda with 50 ambulances worth 
US$1 million. This contribution was made 
in accordance with a Memorandum of 
Mutual Cooperation between the Group 
and the government of the Karaganda 
region worth US$2 million. The Group was 
one of the General Sponsors of the 
‘Karaganda Invest – 2007’ Forum;
annually sponsors an International 
Eurasian Media Forum. In 2007 the Group 
allocated US$100,000; and
provided $4 million of sponsorship to a 
number of sports clubs and teams 
including: hockey team Gornyak, football 
clubs Tobyl and Vityaz (Kostanay region), 
volleyball team Kazchrome and football 
team Gornyak (Aktubinsk region), football 
club Irtysh and tennis club Kazchrome 
(Pavlodar region).
Looking ahead
During 2008, we will continue our existing 
programmes. In addition we will focus on 
providing community support and 
sponsorship including the following areas  
in particular:
Social housing construction in 
collaboration with local authorities.
Programmes for vocational schools 
(development of electronic books  
and manuals).
Support of talented youth.
Put further attention to measuring our 
wider socio-economic contribution,  
in particular the payment of taxes  
and royalties.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 50
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the first Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements of Eurasian Natural Resources 
Corporation PLC (the ‘Company’ and, together with its subsidiaries, the ‘Group’) for the period from 8 December 2006 to 31 December 2007 
and for the year ended 31 December 2007 for the Company and Group respectively.
PRiNCiPAL ACTivi TiES
The Company is the holding company of a leading diversified natural resources group with integrated mining, processing, energy, logistical 
and marketing operations. The Group’s production assets are located in the Republic of Kazakhstan where it employs approximately 64,000 
people. The Group has five operating divisions: the Ferroalloy Division, which produces and sells ferrochrome and other ferroalloys; the Iron 
Ore Division, which produces and sells iron ore concentrate and pellets; the Alumina and Aluminium Division, which produces and sells 
alumina and aluminium; the Energy Division, which is one of the largest electricity providers in Kazakhstan; and the Logistics Division, 
which provides transportation and logistical services to the Group’s principal operating divisions and third parties. For a history of the Group 
and IPO see note 1a on page 69.
BUSiNESS REvi Ew
A detailed review, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, of the Group, the operation and development of its business and  
its future prospects, along with details of key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing ENRC, 
is set out in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive Officer’s Statement and the Business Review on pages 6 to 42.
Divi DENDS
On 6 December 2007, the Company declared a pre-IPO interim dividend of US$500 million which was paid on 19 December 2007. The 
Directors do not intend to declare any further dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007.
DiRECTORS
The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 14 and 15 of this Annual Report.
The following have resigned as Directors since the incorporation of the Company on 8 December 2006 : Mr M Timkin (resigned 19 December 
2006). Pre IPO Board: Mr P Hamelink (resigned 7 November 2007), Messrs A R Ibragimov, A A Machkevitch and P K Chodiev (resigned 
6 December 2007). Subsequent to the year end Mr D Yergozhin (resigned 20 February 2008), Mr Marat Beketayev was appointed in his place 
on 20 February 2008.
Directors’ and officers’ insurance is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 54.
 
DiRECTORS’ iNTERESTS
The number of ordinary shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested were:
        	 31 	 December	 
         2007
Dr Johannes Sittard        	 1,850,000
Mr Miguel Perry        	 601,832
Sir David Cooksey         560,185
Mr Gerhard Ammann         22,222
Mr Mehmet Dalman         92,500
Mr Michael Eggleton         –
Sir Paul Judge         –
Mr Kenneth Olisa         –
Sir Richard Sykes         18,471
Mr Roderick Thomson         –
Mr Eduard Utepov         –
Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev         –
Mr Daulet Yergozhin         –
No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2007 and 16 April 2008.
EmPLOyEES
Each of the Group’s key employees has an employment agreement that covers, among other matters, base remuneration and benefits. In 
addition, the Group negotiates collective employment agreements, which cover primarily social benefits, with representatives of its 
employee labour unions.
Almost all of the Group’s employees are members of one of three labour unions, which are each organised with reference to a particular 
industry. Since the Group acquired its operating assets, it has not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages at any of its operating 
sites as a result of work force disputes. The Group benefits from good labour relations.
With effect from 2008 the Group has adopted a long term incentive plan for management and senior employees which provides for share 
awards. Details of the incentive plan can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 62.
Information relating to the Group’s employees is given in note 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 99.
CREDiTOR PAymENT POLiCy
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers and to make payment in accordance with such 
terms, provided that the supplier has complied with all relevant terms and conditions.
DiRECTORS’ REPORT 51
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
Suppliers in Kazakhstan often require prepayment and as a result the average creditor days outstanding as at 31 December 2007 for the 
Group was 24 days (2006 : 22 days). The average creditor days outstanding as at 31 December 2007 for the Company was nil days.
POST BALANCE ShEET Ev ENTS
Post balance sheet events are set out in note 36 to the Audited Financial Statements on page 106.
vALUE O f L AND
The Group carries land on its balance sheet at cost in accordance with its accounting policies. It is not possible to estimate the market value 
of such interest in land, as this depends on product prices over the long term which will vary with market conditions.
POLiTiCAL AND ChARiTABLE DONATiONS
Certain Kazakh operating entities of the Group made charitable donations to the ‘Umit Oty’ fund and the ‘Kohzhiek’ fund registered in 
Kazakhstan and controlled by the Founder Shareholders. The donations made by the Group are set out below:
        Charitable donations
ENRC entity (in thousands of US$)       Fund 2007 2006
SSGPO     Umit Oty, Kohzhiek 6,734 1,725
Kazchrome      Umit Oty, Kohzhiek 13,077 3,161
AoK     Umit Oty 2,106 –
EEC     Kohzhiek 166 – 
Total      22,083 4,886
The Group understands that Umit Oty and Kohzhiek, managed independently of the Group, provided support to local charities as well as to 
public funds, who fund inter alia local charities, social infrastructure projects and political parties. The Group will continue to provide 
charitable donations as an important part of its strategy to maintain good working relationships with local authorities, subject to approval 
and monitoring by the Board. 
Other donations to charitable organisations in Kazakhstan amounted to US$12 million. A further description of donations is in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report on page 49.
f iNANCiAL iNSTRUmENTS
The Group’s objectives and policies on financial risk management together with details of financial instruments are set out in notes 33 and 
34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 102 and 103. Information on the Group’s exposures to foreign currency, credit, 
commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can also be found in these notes.
mAj OR iNTERESTS iN ShARES
As at 16 April 2008, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services 
Authority, of the following notifiable interests (whether directly or indirectly held) in its voting rights:
       Number of 
       voting rights %
The State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan  248,655,000 19.31
Mr Chodiev       187,836,250 14.59
Mr Ibragimov       187,836,250 14.59
Mr Machkevitch       187,836,250 14.59
Kazakhmys Eurasia BV       187,836,250 14.59
RELATiONShiP AGREEmENTS
On 7 December 2007, Mr Chodiev, Mr Ibragimov and Mr Machkevitch each entered into a separate relationship agreement with the Company 
to regulate the ongoing relationship between each Founder Shareholder and the Company. The principal purpose of the relationship 
agreements is to ensure that transactions and relationships between the Group and the Founder Shareholders are at arm’s length and on  
a normal commercial basis.
ShARE CAPiTAL AND ADDiTiONAL iNf ORmATiON f OR ShAREhOLDERS
The Company has a single class of share capital that is divided into ordinary shares of $0.20 each. Full details of the Company’s share 
capital are set out in note 25 to the Audited Financial Statements on page 95.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
Any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine. The Directors intend, at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 June 2008, to seek authority to allot up to 33.3 million ordinary shares (representing 
approximately 25.9% of the ordinary shares issued at the date of this report). If granted, the authority will expire no later than 15 months 
from the date on which the resolution is passed or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009, whichever is sooner.
voting
On a show of hands every shareholder has one vote; and on a poll every shareholder has one vote for every share of which he is the holder. 
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting. A shareholder may appoint more 
than one proxy in relation to a general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or 
shares held by that shareholder. A shareholder that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general 
meeting as corporate representative.  52
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
DiRECTORS’ REPORT CONTiNUED
Restrictions on voting
Unless the Board decides otherwise, no shareholder may attend or vote at any meeting until he has paid all calls due and payable on every 
share held by him.
Deadlines for voting rights
Any appointment of a proxy, whether by an instrument of writing or in electronic form, must be received by the Company not less than 
48 hours before the time set for the applicable meeting or adjourned meeting.
Dividends and distributions
The Company may by ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.  
The Board may pay interim dividends as appear to the Board to be justified by the profits of the Company available for distribution.
variation of rights
Any of the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-
quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or by special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of shares  
of the class. 
Repurchase of shares
The Company may purchase, or enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its shares of any class. The Company intends 
to seek shareholder authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 June 2008, to purchase up to 128,775,000 
ordinary shares. Such authority, if granted, will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009 or 10 September 
2009, whichever is sooner. 
Amendments to the Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by special resolution of the shareholders. The Directors intend, 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 June 2008, to adopt new Articles of Association to include certain amendments 
required as a result of the Companies Act 2006.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The number of Directors shall be not less than two. Each Director is subject to retirement by rotation in accordance with the Articles of 
Association of the Company. At each annual general meeting one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire 
from office and offer themselves up for re-election. No Director is required to vacate his office because he has reached the age of 70 or 
another age. The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint a person to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the 
existing Directors. The Board may at any time appoint a person to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing 
Directors. Any Director so appointed will retire at the next annual general meeting after his appointment and be eligible to stand for  
re-election as a Director at such meeting. Under the terms of the Relationship Agreements, each Founder Shareholder has a right to appoint 
a Director to the Board as detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 54 to 58.
Powers of the Directors
The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, whether relating to the 
management of the business or not.
Significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of  
a change of control of the Company:
Article	71	of	the	Kazakhstan	Surface	Law: The Republic of Kazakhstan may be entitled to exercise pre-emptive rights over certain issuance 
or sales of ordinary shares or assets shared by the Group. Article 71 of the Kazakhstan Subsurface Law provides that the Republic of 
Kazakhstan has pre-emptive right to purchase certain subsurface use rights or indirect or direct interest in companies having subsurface 
use rights for sale. This pre-emptive right permits the Republic of Kazakhstan to purchase any such subsurface use rights or equity interests 
being offered for sale on terms no less favourable than those offered by other purchasers.
Structured	Trade	Finance	Agreement: On 15 December 2006, ENRC Marketing AG entered into a Structured Trade Finance Facility (the 
‘Facility’) with ABN AMRO Bank NV, Barclays Capital and Deutsche Bank AG Amsterdam Branch as Arrangers and Original lenders, Deutsche 
Bank AG Amsterdam Branch as Agent and Deutsche Bank AG Amsterdam as Security Trustee to borrow up to US$1,000 million from a 
syndicate of lenders (‘Lenders’). By a Supplemental Agreement dated 12 April 2007 the Facility was increased to US$1,480 million. 53
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
If one of the following events occurs:
i) the Founder Shareholders together no longer have Shareholder Control or Effective Control; or
ii) a person or persons acting in concert had Effective Control or Shareholder Control or owns more shares in the relevant holding company 
of the Group than are held by the Founder Shareholders at the date of the Facility; or
iii) ENRC Marketing and Kazchrome cease to be subsidiaries of the same holding company,
then any Lender may decline to fund a drawdown and any Lender may cancel its commitment under the Facility and require its portion of any 
outstanding loans be due and payable in full at the end of the then current interest period.
For these purposes, ‘Shareholder control’ means holding directly or indirectly shares in the issued share capital of ENRC Marketing carrying 
the right to exercise more than 30% of the votes exercisable at a general meeting of the shareholders of ENRC Marketing, and ‘Effective 
Control’ means the ability to give directions with respect to the operating and financial policies of a company with which the directors or 
equivalent officers of such company are obliged to comply (ignoring, for the avoidance of doubt, the powers of any sub-committee of the 
board of directors or equivalent to which the board of directors have delegated certain of their powers).
AUDiTORS AND DiSCLOSURE Of i Nf ORmATiON TO AUDiTORS
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution seeking to reappoint  
them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 June 2008.
Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that:
1)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
2)  the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information  
and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
ANNUAL GENERAL mEETiNG
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on 11 June 2008, at the Lanesborough Hotel. Details of the meeting venue 
and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report.
By order of the Board 
PAUL wATERS
Company Secretary
25 April 2008 54
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
iNTRODUCTiON
ENRC listed its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange on 12 December 2007 and became a member of the FTSE 100 Index on 
26 March 2008. The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’) including the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 
(the ‘Code’) have only therefore applied to the Company since 12 December 2007. In the period leading up to the Listing, the Board 
implemented a number of changes to the corporate governance of the Company to ensure compliance with the Code, in particular, with those 
provisions of the Code relating to Board and Committee composition. In establishing a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, ENRC 
committed itself to complying with the Code on exactly the same ‘comply or explain’ basis as all other members of the London Stock 
Exchange. Since the Company only listed on 12 December 2007 it is impracticable to expect the Company to comply with many of the Code’s 
provisions. Accordingly, the report includes a description of how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the Code since 
12 December 2007 and how it intends to apply those principles throughout 2008.
ThE BOARD
The Board is responsible for the good management of the Company and its principal aim is to enhance the Company’s long-term value for the 
benefit of the shareholders. The Board intends to meet at least six times a year. At these meetings the Board will review the Company’s long-
term strategic direction and financial plans and monitor on a regular basis the Company’s performance against an agreed strategy and 
business plan. In addition the Board will agree key objectives for the Chief Executive Officer on an annual basis and will monitor 
performance against these objectives. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision at each meeting. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures are 
followed. All Directors have the right to have their opposition or concerns to a resolution recorded in the minutes. The Board has adopted 
guidelines by which any Director may take independent professional advice in the performance of his duties.
The Board met on several occasions in the run up to the Listing. It did not, however, meet between the Listing and 31 December 2007. A full 
programme of Board meetings is planned for 2008. So far in 2008 the Board has met twice with full attendance at each meeting.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors did not meet in the time between the Listing on 12 December 2007 and 31 December 2007. 
The Chairman fully intends, however, to meet regularly throughout the year with the non-executive Directors without the executives present. 
The Chairman was appointed on 12 November 2007 and, therefore, given the Chairman’s short tenure so far the Board believes no 
meaningful evaluation of performance can take place until later in 2008.
The Articles of Association of the Company require it to indemnify officers of the Company, including officers of wholly owned subsidiaries, 
against liabilities arising from the conduct of the Group’s business, to the extent permitted by law. The Group has therefore purchased 
directors’ and officers’ insurance during the year.
APPOiNTmENTS TO ThE BOARD
In preparation for the Listing the Company sought to recruit to its Board experienced non-executive Directors who are well known to and highly 
regarded by the market. The Directors believe that the presence of all the Directors will add considerably to the Board’s ability to oversee and grow 
the Company’s operations. Biographies of all the Board members appear on pages 14 and 15. 
BOARD mEmBERShiP
The Board consists of two Executive Directors – the Chief Executive Officer, Dr Johannes Sittard and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr Miguel 
Perry – and 11 non-executive Directors. Sir David Cooksey is Chairman and Sir Richard Sykes is the Senior Independent Director.  
The other non-executive Directors are Mr Gerhard Ammann, Mr Marat Beketayev, Mr Mehmet Dalman, Mr Michael Eggleton, Sir Paul Judge, 
Mr Kenneth Olisa, Mr Roderick Thomson, Mr Eduard Utepov and Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev. 
BOARD BALANCE AND iNDEPENDENCE
The Code recommends that at least half the Board (excluding the Chairman) should be non-executive Directors who are independent. The 
Board has considered the independence of each non-executive Director in detail and in the opinion of the Board, seven of the non-executive 
Directors are independent in character and judgement. The Chairman was independent on appointment. A table of the Board balance is set 
out below:
Sir David Cooksey – Chairman (independent on appointment)
 NON-iNDEPENDENT        iNDEPENDENT
 Dr Johannes Sittard         Sir Richard Sykes
 Marat Beketayev         Gerhard Ammann
 Miguel Perry         Mehmet Dalman
 Eduard Utepov         Michael Eggleton
 Abdraman Yedilbayev         Sir Paul Judge
           Ken Olisa
           Roderick Thomson
Sir Richard Sykes has been appointed as Senior Independent Director and his principal duty in this capacity is to evaluate the performance 
of the Chairman and address shareholders’ concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or in cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE REPORT 55
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
Mr Beketayev and Mr Utepov are representatives of The State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan, (the ‘Committee’) and as such are not considered by the Board to be independent under the provisions of the Combined 
Code. 
As set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 50 to 53, Mr Chodiev, Mr Ibragimov and Mr Machkevitch (the ‘Founder Shareholders’) each 
entered into a separate relationship agreement (the ‘Relationship Agreements’) with the Company to regulate the ongoing relationship 
between each individual Founder Shareholder and the Company. The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreements is to enable the 
Group to carry on its business independently, and to ensure that transactions and relationships between the Group and the Founder 
Shareholders are at arm’s length and on a normal commercial basis. Under the terms of the Relationship Agreements, each of the Founder 
Shareholders has the right to appoint one Director to the Board, for so long as his shareholder group controls 10% or more of the voting 
rights exercisable at general meetings of the Company. Pursuant to this right, Mr Ibragimov has appointed Mr Yedilbayev to the Board.  
He is not considered to be independent under the Code.
ChAiRmAN AND ChiEf Ex ECUTiv E
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly divided and their responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed by the 
Board as follows:
The Chairman, Sir David Cooksey, is responsible for creating the conditions for the effective working of the Board. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Dr Johannes Sittard, is responsible to the Board for the overall leadership and operational management of the 
Group’s business.
iNf ORmATiON AND PROf ESSiONAL DEv ELOPmENT Of T hE BOARD 
The Board has agreed with the Chief Executive Officer that it should receive accurate and timely information on the performance of the 
Company and the nature and scope of the information to be provided. The Chief Executive Officer is obliged to bring to the Board’s attention 
all matters that materially affect, or are capable of materially affecting, the performance of the Company and the achievement of its strategy.
All Directors have received briefings from the Company’s advisers including presentations to familiarise them with the Group. Overseas 
Directors have been briefed on the responsibilities of UK directors of a Public Listed Company.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Board intends to establish a formal induction training process for new Directors based on recommendations prepared by the Company 
Secretary. 
Board evaluation
The majority of the Directors were only appointed between November 2007 and December 2007 and, in view of this, the Board believes that 
a meaningful evaluation of performance can only take place once the new Board has had a reasonable amount of time to work together. An 
evaluation policy will be developed and implemented before the end of 2008. The Senior Independent Director, Sir Richard Sykes, together 
with the other non-executive Directors, will undertake an evaluation of the Chairman.
Re-election of Directors
The Board can appoint Directors either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board. The articles of association of the Company 
require that any Director so appointed shall retire at the Annual General Meeting following his appointment and may offer himself for 
election by shareholders. In addition, under the current articles of association, a minimum of one-third of the Directors retire by rotation 
each year. This ensures that each Director is re-elected at least every three years.
This is the first annual general meeting since incorporation. All the Directors will therefore be offering themselves for election at  
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held at 2.30pm on 11 June 2008 full details of which are set out in a separate notice of 
meeting which accompanies the Annual Report.
As the Directors being proposed for election have only been in the post for a relatively short period, the Board remains satisfied that each 
Director proposed for election continues to be fully competent to carry out his responsibilities as a member of the Board. 
BOARD COmmiTTEES
The Board has delegated authority to a number of Board committees. The membership of each of these committees along with the duties  
of each Committee is set out on page 56. 56
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE REPORT CONTiNUED
ThE BOARD
AUDiT COmmiTTEE REmUNERATiON COmmiTTEE NOmiNATiON COmmiTTEE hEALTh, SAf ETy, 
ENvi RONmENT AND 
SUSTAiNABiLiTy COmmiTTEE
Gerhard Ammann (Chairman)
Michael Eggleton
Sir Paul Judge
Kenneth Olisa
Roderick Thomson
Sir Richard Sykes (Chairman)
Mehmet Dalman
Sir Paul Judge
Kenneth Olisa
Sir David Cooksey (Chairman)
Gerhard Ammann
Mehmet Dalman 
Michael Eggleton
Sir Paul Judge
Kenneth Olisa
Sir Richard Sykes
Roderick Thomson
Dr Johannes Sittard (Chairman)
Eduard Utepov
Felix Vulis (COO Kazakhstan)
Abdraman Yedilbayev
The Board and Committees of the Board did not meet between the IPO on 12 December 2007 and 31 December 2007. A full timetable of 
Board and Committee meetings is in place for 2008 and attendance of members at these Board and Committee meetings will be duly 
recorded. 
health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
Details of the roles of this Committee are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 44 to 49.
Nomination Committee
The role of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies and to 
keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of the membership of the 
Board and to make recommendations to the Board on composition and balance. The Code recommends that a majority of the members of  
the Nomination Committee should be independent non-executive Directors. The Committee consists solely of independent non-executive 
Directors apart from the Chairman. The Nomination Committee shall meet at least twice a year and at such other times that the Chairman of 
the Committee shall require. The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website: www.enrc.com 
A Nomination Committee consisting of all the Directors in position at that time met before the IPO to consider the appointments of new 
Directors in connection with the IPO. The Nomination Committee met on 20 February 2008 to consider the appointment of Mr Marat 
Beketayev.
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and recommend to the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of Executive  
Directors and senior management, as well as specific remuneration packages, including pension rights and any compensation payments. 
The remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors is decided upon by the full Board. 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Richard Sykes and the other members are Mr Mehmet Dalman, Sir Paul Judge and  
Mr Kenneth Olisa all of whom are independent non-executive Directors. The Company complies with the Code recommendations regarding 
membership of the Remuneration Committee. The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website.
So far in 2008 the Remuneration Committee has met three times to consider the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior 
management.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 59 to 62. 
Audit Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of the financial reporting by the Company, to review the Group’s internal control 
and risk management systems, to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function and to oversee the relationship with the 
Group’s external auditors. 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Gerhard Ammann, an independent non-executive Director who was Chief Executive Officer of  
Deloitte in Switzerland until May 2007. Mr Ammann has over 30 years’ experience as an auditor under IFRS and Swiss reporting standards, 
primarily in banking, finance and international trade and is therefore considered to have recent and relevant financial experience. The  
other members of the Audit Committee are Mr Michael Eggleton, Sir Paul Judge, Mr Kenneth Olisa and Mr Roderick Thomson, and all of  
whom are independent non-executive Directors. The Company complies with the Code recommendations regarding membership of the  
Audit Committee.
Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet at least four times a year at appropriate times in the reporting and audit 
cycle. The Audit Committee reports on its activities to the next Board meeting following its meeting. 
Prior to the IPO the Audit Committee membership comprised Mr Pieter Hamelink, Mr Alijan Ibragimov and Mr Daulet Yergozhin all of whom 
have resigned as directors of the Company. The Audit Committee met prior to the IPO to consider the financial information contained in the 
Prospectus produced in connection with the IPO. 57
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
So far in 2008 the Audit Committee has met twice and has carried out, inter alia, the activities described above in accordance with the 
responsibilities set out in its terms of reference (a copy of which is available on the Company’s website).
 
Financial	reporting
The Audit Committee reviewed the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts including the preliminary results announcement before recommending 
their approval by the Board. As part of this review, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, estimates and judgements that had 
been applied in preparing the Report and Accounts. 
Internal	Audit
The Internal Audit department is currently at a developmental stage. To promote independence and objectivity, the Head of Internal Audit 
will report administratively to the Chief Executive Officer, Dr Sittard, and functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Ammann. 
While the Internal Audit Team is being established, the duties of the department are currently being undertaken in a co-sourcing 
arrangement with Deloitte & Touche. A high level review of major risks faced by the Group was conducted for the IPO. These identified the 
areas on which risk management and internal audit should be focused and such risks have been incorporated into the initial annual internal 
audit plan. The Audit Committee has approved this initial internal audit plan.
External	Audit
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors and considers the re-appointment of the Company’s auditors 
before making a recommendation to the Board to be put to shareholders. As part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee has approved 
audit plans, reviewed the findings of the external auditor and reviewed management representation letters. Prior to recommending the 
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit Committee conducted a review of the 
independence of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The Audit Committee has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the 
Group’s auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide a range of accounting and other professional services that might compromise 
their appointment as independent auditors. The engagement of the Group’s auditors to provide statutory audit services, other services 
pursuant to legislation, taxation services and certain other services are pre-approved. Any engagement of the Group’s auditors to provide 
other specific permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee or its Chairman.
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee has established a policy and the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The policy and arrangement is to be disseminated throughout the Group 
during the course of 2008.
internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of Internal Control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Internal Control has a key role in the 
management of risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Group’s business objectives. A sound system of internal control contributes 
to safeguarding the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. Internal control facilitates the effectiveness and efficiency of 
operations, helps ensure the reliability of internal and external reporting and assists compliance with laws and regulations.
The assessment of the risks to the achievement of the Group’s objectives operates at both Group level and within all the Group companies. 
An initial assessment of the Key Business Risks of the Group was undertaken as part of the IPO process. As part of that initial assessment 
the Group adopted the following approach to be applied going forward.
The Senior Management will hold an annual meeting which may be facilitated by external advisers with risk management experience.  
The Senior Management will consider risks to the Group under the headings of:
Strategic Objectives – that relate to high-level goals, aligned with and supporting the Group’s mission.
Operational Objectives – that relate to effectiveness and efficiency of the Group’s operations, including performance and profitability 
goals and safeguarding resources against loss.
Compliance Objectives – that relate to adherence to the laws and regulations to which Group companies are subject including Health, 
Safety and Environmental matters.
Financial Objectives – that pertain to the financial status of the Group and Group companies and their arrangements for financial 
reporting, including the prevention of fraudulent public financial reporting.
The Senior Management will adopt an approach which is drawn from best practice in risk management. The approach considers the potential 
impact of each risk and the likelihood of the risk materialising at an ‘inherent’ level, i.e. before considering any controls which  
may be in place to manage or mitigate the risk. The definition of these terms is as follows:
Impact – the extent to which the risk, if it materialised, would impact the Group. The factors that may help define the impact rating may 
include financial effect, reputational impact or the ability to achieve key objectives.
Likelihood – the probability of a risk materialising over a predefined time period. For the Group this has been set at one year.  
In some cases frequency of occurrence may be considered as well.
The output of the meeting will be a list of Key Business Risks which are those which have a high overall risk rating and therefore most 
critically require Key Controls to be implemented to manage or mitigate those risks.
If one or more Key Business Risks exists within a Group company the management of that company assesses how these risks are currently 
managed or mitigated and the extent to which the relevant Key Controls are operating effectively. If controls are absent or are considered to 
be unlikely to be consistently effective in their operation the management team will prepare an action plan to remedy the situation.
>
>
>
>
>
> 58
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
The Group are in the process of recruiting a Group Risk Management Co-ordinator to manage these processes and to report directly to the 
Deputy Group Chief Financial Officer. Each significant Group company will also appoint a Risk Management Co-ordinator who will be the 
principal point of contact on matters of risks and controls.
The Key Business Risks arising from the above reviews will be maintained in Company Risk Registers by the Risk Management Co-ordinators 
and in a Group Risk Register by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The Group Risk Register will be tabled for review and adoption by the Audit Committee and forwarded to the Group Board. Once the register 
has been approved by the Group Board it is returned to the Audit Committee which will receive quarterly reports on the effective application 
of those Key Controls which were identified to manage or mitigate the Key Business Risks.
The Audit Committee, on the basis of delegated authority from the Board, will assess annually the effectiveness of the internal controls of 
the Group in accordance with the Code.
The Group Chief Financial Officer will provide an annual signed report to the Audit Committee noting that, to the best of his knowledge, the 
Key Controls for which the management of the Group companies are responsible are operating in a consistent and effective way.
The finance directors of Group companies, who have been delegated responsibility for monitoring the Key Controls in those companies, are 
required to provide an annual signed report to the Group Chief Financial Officer noting that, to the best of their knowledge, the Key Controls 
are operating in a consistent and effective way.
In addition the Group will appoint a Head of Internal Audit to manage an Annual Internal Audit Plan, which will be risk-based and be subject 
to review and approval by the Audit Committee. The Head of Internal Audit will report to the Audit Committee at each of its meetings and will 
provide annual assurance, independent of any assurance provided by the Executive Directors, that the Key Controls which have been subject 
to audit by his team, are operating effectively.
RELATiONS wi Th Sh AREhOLDERS
As part of the IPO roadshow in 2007 the Group met with a large number of investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Russia and 
the United States of America. The meetings involved the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Marketing and the 
Chief Operating Officer, Kazakhstan, as well as other senior management.
As part of its investor relations programme going forward the Group will aim to provide a high level of transparency and communication to 
investors and analysts on a regular and timely basis, through announcements, meetings and seminars. The Group seeks to develop a regular 
dialogue with investors and analysts and to respond to their challenges and to understand their sentiment and concerns. The Group has a 
comprehensive investor relations website which has full up-to-date information available to all shareholders and investors. All shareholders 
have the opportunity to attend and raise questions at the Group’s Annual General Meeting.
The Group aspires to have an investor relations programme that is ranked highly amongst its peers for its accessibility, responsiveness and 
disclosure. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer would aim to meet all major shareholders at least twice a year and, with other 
senior management, to meet with a wide range of shareholders and prospective investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, the 
United States of America and elsewhere in the world during the year. These discussions will focus on the results and businesses of the Group 
but will also seek to learn of any concerns amongst investors. The Group will also seek to meet with sell-side analysts to raise the Group’s 
profile and to build the research coverage.
Investor relations activity and a review of the share register will be regular items on the agenda for Board meetings. Analysts’ and brokers’ 
reports are regularly circulated to the Board. The Chairman and non-executive Directors are free to attend investor relations meetings or to 
request meetings with investors or analysts independent of the Group’s management.
The Company’s first Annual General Meeting since incorporation will be held on 11 June 2008 and the Chairman and Chairmen of each of the 
Board committees welcome the opportunity to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company. The Annual Report 
and Accounts and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the 
meeting.
GOiNG CONCERN
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
SiR RiChARD Syk ES
Senior independent Director on behalf of the Board
25 April 2008
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE REPORT CONTiNUED 59
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
iNTRODUCTiON
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies and practices adopted by the Company during the year ended 31 December 
2007 in respect of members of the Board.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 introduced by the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and contains both auditable and non-auditable information. The information subject to audit is  
set out in the Directors’ remuneration table and its notes on page 62. This report sets out the remuneration policy for the year ended  
31 December 2007, the current year and, subject to ongoing review, future financial years. 
The auditors are required to report on part of the Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. The Report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited  
and unaudited information.
Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’)
The Committee was established and its terms of reference approved on 1 March 2007 and amended by the Board on 3 April 2008. The terms 
of reference are designed to enable the Committee to comply with the requirements relating to remuneration policy set out in the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance (the ‘Code’). A copy of the terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website. The members of the 
Committee, who are all independent non-executive Directors, are:
Sir Richard Sykes (Chairman) – from 6 December 2007.
Mehmet Dalman – from 6 December 2007.
Sir Paul Judge – from 6 December 2007.
Kenneth Olisa – from 6 December 2007.
The responsibilities of the Committee include recommending executive remuneration policy to the Board; reviewing and determining the 
remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, senior management and Company Secretary; monitoring the effectiveness and 
appropriateness of the executive remuneration policy and practice; and reviewing the Chairman’s fees.
The Committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (‘NBSC’), following the Initial Public Offering, to advise on the benchmarking  
of remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management, and Kepler Associates to advise on performance measures. Neither 
adviser provided any other service to the Group during the year. The terms of engagement between the Committee and NBSC and Kepler  
are available on request from the Company Secretary. The Head of Human Resources attended Committee meetings and provided advice  
to the Committee but not in respect of matters directly affecting his own remuneration. The Chairman of the Board also attended the 
Committee and provided advice.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee but is not present when issues relating to his own remuneration are discussed.
Remuneration policy
Going forward in line with ENRC’s stated objectives of aligning total remuneration with personal and business performance, the composition 
of the total remuneration packages is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable components. Specifically:
Base salary: generally positioned around mid-market levels. 
Annual bonus: to incentivise and reward the achievement of demanding financial and non-financial corporate and individual objectives. 
Long Term Equity Incentives: annual grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and reward both long-term earnings and 
share price performance.
A significant proportion of the Executive Director’s package is therefore performance-linked.
Details of each element of the package, which also includes pension and benefit provisions are described below.
Base salary
Base salaries will be reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of relevant benchmark data (FTSE 100 Index companies, 
international companies of a similar size and complexity and the market generally), the performance of the individual concerned and pay 
quantum and structure more generally throughout the Group.
Executive Director base salaries, as at 1 January 2008 are as follows:
Chief Executive Officer –£1,500,000
Chief Financial Officer – £600,000
Pensions and benefits
A contribution of 10% of base salary is made to each Executive Director for his personal pension arrangements.
Benefits comprise life assurance, private healthcare, travel insurance and income protection insurance. The Chief Executive Officer receives 
benefits in kind which includes a fully funded car and a driver. The taxable value of these benefits is included in the Directors’ remuneration 
table on page 62.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
REmUNERATiON REPORT 60
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
REmUNERATiON REPORT CONTiNUED
Bonuses
For 2008, Executive Directors are participating in an annual bonus arrangement with performance measures based on Group financial 
performance (80% of bonus potential), personal performance (10% of bonus potential) and health and safety performance (10% of bonus 
potential). Specific financial targets have not been disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential but they are deemed to 
be appropriately challenging by the Committee and will only pay out in full for exceptional performance.
The maximum bonus potential for 2008, which will be payable for exceptional levels of performance, is set at 100% of base salary for the 
Chief Executive Officer and for the Chief Financial Officer. Half of the maximum bonus potential will be paid at target performance levels.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Chief Executive Officer received an annual bonus of £1.0 million, all of which was guaranteed in 
his Service Agreement together with an IPO cash bonus of £1.125 million. The Chief Financial Officer received an annual bonus of £400,000, 
together with an IPO cash bonus of £400,000. Details of the actual amounts paid for 2007 are set out in the Directors’ remuneration table on 
page 62.
Long Term incentive Plan
The ENRC Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) was adopted by the Board on 6 December 2007. The Plan has been designed to reward senior 
management for achieving the Group’s strategic objectives and provide an appropriate level of long-term performance related pay. 
Each year, participants will receive conditional awards of shares in the Company which will normally vest three years after they are awarded, 
subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, measured over a three-year performance period, and continued service.
The maximum conditional award under the LTIP is set at twice base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 1.5 times base salary for the 
Chief Financial Officer, both based on the market value of shares at the grant date. 
Initial awards under the plan are expected to be made in the period following the announcement of the Company’s preliminary results with 
the Chief Executive Officer due to receive an award over shares worth 200% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer due to receive an award 
over shares worth 150% of salary. Lower award levels, dependent upon seniority, will be granted to a number of senior executives below 
Board.
The performance measures for the initial awards will be based on the Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) against a comparator group 
of 22 other international mining companies. The comparator companies will be BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto, Xstrata, Alcoa, Freeport-McMoRan 
Copper & Gold, Teck Cominco, Vedanta Resources, Mount Gibson, Antofagasta, Cameca, Kazakhmys, Peabody Energy, Forescue Metals, 
CVRD, Grupo Mexico, Ferrexpo, Aricom, Portman, Aluminium Corp of China, Mitsubishi Materials Corp, Outokumpu OYJ and Cleveland-Cliffs 
Inc. The Committee considers that this performance metric is the most appropriate measure of long-term Company performance at this time, 
providing the alignment of interests between management and shareholders and ensuring that there is a strong link to share price in the 
senior executive remuneration packages.
For the initial awards, the performance condition will be measured over the three year period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010.  
The final number of shares released to individuals will depend on the Company’s TSR performance. 25% of the allocated shares will be 
released if the Company’s TSR ranking against the comparator group is equal to the median ranked company. 100% of the allocated shares 
will be released if the ranking is equal to, or in excess of, the upper quartile. Between these levels of performance, vesting is based upon a 
pro rata basis. No shares will be released if the Company’s TSR is below the median ranked company.
In addition to the above, the awards will not vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Group’s TSR performance during the performance 
period reflects the Group’s underlying financial performance. The TSR condition will be independently monitored and reported to the 
Committee.
Awards are expected to be satisfied by the issue of new shares. There are no outstanding share awards.
iPO Plan
The IPO Plan was approved by the pre-IPO Board to provide awards to Executive Directors and senior management of the Group in the form 
of cash and ordinary share awards, both of which were granted and vested on 12 December 2007. No further awards will be made under this 
Plan. Details of awards made to Directors are set out on page 62. 61
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
120
12 December 07 31 December 07
115
110
105
100
95
Source: Thomson Financial
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation
Total Shareholder Return (£)
FTSE 100 Index
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
Performance graph
The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return of ENRC compared with the FTSE 100 Index since 12 December 2007 
(being the first date of trading for Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC shares). The FTSE 100 Index is thought to be the most 
appropriate index given that it is a widely used and understood index of leading UK listed companies.
Executive Directors’ contracts
Both Executive Directors have a service agreement, unless the Director reaches the retirement age of 65 or any extension agreed by the 
Board. These contracts can be terminated by either the Company or the Executive Director giving 12 months’ notice.
Under the terms of the contracts, the Group reserves the right, in its absolute discretion, to terminate an Executive Director’s employment by 
making a payment in lieu of notice.
Both Executive Directors are subject to restrictive covenants which seek to prevent the solicitation of customers or employees and/or 
competing with the Company’s business for six months following termination of employment.
Specific contract provisions, which entitled the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to receive specified payments on a change 
of control, which were designed to provide additional protection for the Executive Directors at the time of flotation and were fully explained 
in the listing particulars, were removed from the Executive Directors’ contracts for no compensation.
Dates of the service contracts are:
 
Name     Position Date of appointment
Dr Johannes Sittard*     Chief Executive Officer 1 May 2007
Miguel Perry*     Chief Financial Officer 12 March 2007
*  Miguel Perry’s contract is with ENRC Management UK Ltd and Dr Johannes Sittard’s with the Company. Prior to the formation of the Company, Dr Sittard was previously employed by 
the pre-IPO group.
Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards or committees as long as 
these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Company. Any fees in respect of those appointments are retained by the Executive 
Directors concerned. During 2007, the Chief Executive Officer received US$2,036,074, for external non-executive directorships. 
Non-executive Directors’ fees
The non-executive Directors have entered into Letters of Appointment with the Company, the details of which are summarised below. The 
remuneration of the non-executive Directors (other than the Chairman) is a matter for the Chairman and Executive members of the Board and 
will be reviewed from time to time with regard to time commitment and responsibility of roles and fees paid by comparable companies. Non-
Executives are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan, long-term incentive plans or pension arrangements.
 
Name of Director Position Date of letter of appointment Annual fee
Sir David Cooksey Non-executive Chairman 15 November 2007 £500,000
a
Gerhard Ammann Independent non-executive Director  
  and Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 November 2007 £120,000
b
Mehmet Dalman Independent non-executive Director 23 November 2007 £100,000
Michael Eggleton Independent non-executive Director 15 November 2007 £100,000
Sir Paul Judge Independent non-executive Director 14 November 2007 £100,000
Kenneth Olisa Independent non-executive Director 14 November 2007 £100,000
Sir Richard Sykes Senior Independent non-executive Director  
  and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 December 2007 £250,000
c
Roderick Thomson Independent non-executive Director 15 November 2007 £100,000
Eduard Utepov  Non-executive Director 9 November 2007 £100,000
d
Adbraham Yedilbayev Non-executive Director 21 November 2007 £100,000
Daulet Yergozhin Non-executive Director 9 November 2007 £100,000
d
All of the non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment provide for no less than six months’ written notice of termination and a sum equivalent to six months of the annual fee is 
payable in lieu of notice by the Company should it request his resignation as a Director with immediate effect.
a  Sir David Cooksey’s letter of appointment relates to the provision of services by him to the Company as the Chairman of the Company and Nomination Committees with effect 
from 7 November 2007.
b  Mr Ammann’s fee includes £20,000 in relation to his chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
c  Sir Richard Sykes’ fee includes £150,000 in relation to his chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and his additional responsibility as Senior Independent Director.
d  As Ministers of the Kazakhstan Government, neither Mr Utepov nor Mr Yergozhin are permitted to receive fees personally. Mr Yergozhin resigned as a Director of the Company on 
20 February 2008.  62
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
No service contract exists or is proposed between the Company or any of its subsidiaries and any Director other than contracts of service 
expiring or determinable within one year without payment of contractual compensation to the Director.
Copies of the Executive Directors’ service contracts and the Letters of Appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for 
inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company.
 
Directors’ remuneration for the period 1 j anuary 2007 to 31 December 2007
The following table sets out an analysis of the pre-tax remuneration for the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 for individual 
Directors who held office in the Company during this period. The table is set out in £ sterling to reflect the currency in which the Directors  
are paid.
Directors’ remuneration
  Annual    Value 
  performance Benefits Pension  Value of IPO share Directors’ Total	 Total
7
 
Stated in £’000 sterling Base salary bonus in kind contributions cash award awards Fees 2007	 2006
Executive	 Directors
Dr	 Johannes	 Sittard
1,2
 1,623 1,000 53 88 1,310 9,805  13,879	 230
Miguel	 Perry	 (appointed 12 Nov 2007)
3
 82 68 5 8 460 3,180  3,803 
Non-executive	 Directors
Sir	 David	 Cooksey (appointed 7 Nov 2007)
4
     37 1,988 83 2,108	 Gerhard	 Ammann (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       8 8	 Patokh	 Chodiev (resigned 6 Dec 2007)         2,048
Mehmet	 Dalman (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       7 7	 Michael	 Eggleton (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       7 7	 Pieter	 Hamelink (resigned 7 Nov 2007)
5
     50 2,650  2,700 1,336
Alijan	 Ibragimov (resigned 6 Dec 2007)   223     223 2,004
Sir	 Paul	 Judge (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       7 7	 Alexander	 Machkevitch (resigned 6 Dec 2007)   43     43 1,625
Kenneth	 Olisa (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       7 7	 Sir	 Richard	 Sykes (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       17 17	 Roderick	 Thomson (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       7 7	 Eduard	 Utepov
 
(appointed 6 Dec 2007)
6
       7 7	 Adbraham	 Yedilbayev (appointed 6 Dec 2007)       7 7	 Daulet	 Yergozhin
 
(resigned 20 Feb 2008)
6
       7 7	 Total	 1,705	 1,068	 324	 96	 1,857	 17,623	 164	 22,837	 7,243
Notes:
1  The salary of Dr Sittard consists of US$1,249,000 for the period to 30 April 2007 and £1,000,000 for the period 1 May 2007 to 31 December 2007.
2  Dr Sittard received an annual performance bonus of £1,000,000 for the period in recognition of his efforts in the successful establishment of the Group  
Head Office in London and the configuration of the operating companies in Kazakhstan to deliver future results.
3  The base salary, annual performance bonus, benefits in kind and pension contributions of Miguel Perry were £403k, £332k, £22k and £40k respectively for the period  
12 March to 11 November 2007. Mr Perry also received a cash bonus of £100k on joining the Company.
4 Sir David Cooksey received 375,000 shares in connection with his appointment as Chairman. 
5  Pieter Hamelink received US$12.5 million consultancy fees and 500,000 shares in connection with preparing the Company for the IPO.
6 As ministers of the Kazakhstan Government, neither Mr Utepov nor Mr Yergozhin were permitted to receive fees personally.
7  These fees were earned by Directors throughout 2006 when they were Directors of both the Company and the pre-IPO group.
The following share awards were made under the IPO Plan at 540p. Awards were not subject to future performance or service conditions. 
        Share awards 
Name of Director         (number of shares)
Dr Johannes Sittard        1,850,000
Miguel Perry        600,000
Recipients of share awards under the IPO Plan are responsible for settling all taxes payable on the receipt of these shares. The mid-market 
price of the shares at 31 December 2007 was 640p and from the date of listing on 12 December 2007 to 31 December 2007, the share price 
varied between 540p and 645.5p. 
ANNUAL GENERAL mEETiNG
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Remuneration Report at the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
SiR RiChARD Syk ES
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 April 2008
REmUNERATiON REPORT CONTiNUED 63
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. The Directors are required under company law to 
prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union. The 
Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s financial 
position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and 
conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International 
Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair 
presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS. However, Directors are also required to:
properly select and apply consistently, accounting policies;
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the financial statements.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). The parent company financial statements are required by 
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures  
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and of the Group and enables them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the Board
PAUL wATERS
Company Secretary
25 April 2008
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
STATEmENT Of Di RECTORS’ RESPONSiBiLiTiES 64
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
iNDEPENDENT AUDiTORS’ REPORT TO ThE mEmBERS Of EURASiAN NATURAL 
RESOURCES CORPORATiON PLC ON CONSOLiDATED fi NANCiAL STATEmENTS
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements. These consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the period 
ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
RESPECTiv E RESPONSiBiLiTiES Of D iRECTORS AND AUDiTORS
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, 
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated 
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements. 
The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s Statement, Our Leadership Team, the Business Review and the Corporate Governance Report that is cross referenced from the 
Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 
(2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial 
statements. The other information comprises the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement, the Business Review, the 
Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and all other information referred to on the contents page. We consider the 
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial 
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BASiS Of AUD iT OPiNiON
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An 
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. It 
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of 
information in the consolidated financial statements.
OPiNiON
In our opinion:
the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of 
the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
PRiCEw ATERhOUSECOOPERS LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
29 April 2008
>
>
> 65
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CONSOLiDATED iNCOmE STATEmENT
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Revenue       4,6	 4,106 3,256
Cost of sales       7 (1,701) (1,542)
Gross	 profit        2,405	 1,714
   
Distribution costs       8 (373) (407)
Selling, general and administrative expenses       9	 (606) (290)
Other operating expenses – net       10 (5) (20)
Operating	 profit        1,421	 997
   
 Analysed as:   
 EBITDA before exceptional items*       35 1,906 1,256
 Depreciation and amortisation        (303) (253)
 Exceptional items       9 (182) (6)
Finance income       13 58 24
Finance costs       14 (158) (50)
Profit	 before	 income	 tax        1,321	 971
Income tax expense       15 (507) (285)
   
Profit for the year        814 686
   
Profit	 is	 attributable	 to:	 	 	 	 Equity shareholders of the Group        798 550
Minority interests        16 136
   
In US$   
Earnings	 per	 share	 –	 basic	 and	 diluted       16 0.79 0.55
* EBITDA before exceptional items is defined as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation adjusted for exceptional items.
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
fi NANCiAL STATEmENTS 66
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
         As at 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Assets	 Non-current	 assets
Property, plant and equipment       17 3,232 2,543
Goodwill and intangible assets       18 390 389
Loans receivable       20 7 21
Deferred tax asset       15 8 12
Other non-current assets       21 322 43
Total	 non-current	 assets        3,959	 3,008
Current	 assets
Inventories       22 438 361
Trade and other receivables       23 1,045 637
Financial assets       19 170 21
Loans receivable       20 28 240
Cash and cash equivalents       24 2,548 336
Total	 current	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,229	 1,595
Total	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8,188	 4,603
Equity
Share capital and share premium       25 3,257 200
Reserves        2,457 2,011
Equity	 attributable	 to	 the	 Group’s	 equity	 shareholders	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5,714	 2,211
Minority	 interests	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 75	 61
Total	 equity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5,789	 2,272
Liabilities
Non-current	 liabilities
Borrowings       26 1,065 876
Deferred tax liabilities       15 295 280
Asset retirement obligations       27 86 44
Employee benefit obligations       28 52 48
Derivative financial instruments       33 51 –
Total	 non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,549	 1, 248
Current	 liabilities
Borrowings       26 359 608
Trade and other payables       29 370 393
Current income tax payable        28 20
Other taxes payable       30 93 62
Total	 current	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 850	 1,083
Total	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,399	 2,331
Total	 liabilities	 and	 equity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8,188	 4,603
These Group consolidated financial statements, on pages 65 to 68 and the accompanying notes on pages 69 to 107, were authorised for 
issue by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2008 and were signed on its behalf by: 
DR jO hANNES SiTTARD   miGUEL PERRy
Chief Executive Officer   Chief f inancial Officer
CONSOLiDATED BALANCE ShEET 67
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
         As at 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Net	 cash	 generated	 from	 operating	 activities       31 1,079	 739
Cash	 flow	 from	 investing	 activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment        (1,042) (504)
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment       71 19
Proceeds from sales (purchase) of intangible assets       (1) 2
Purchases of investments        – (17)
Prepayments for acquisition of subsidiary       21 (100) –
Proceeds from sale of investments        24 18
Loans and deposits granted to related parties         (119) (91)
Other loans and deposits granted        (243) –
Proceeds from repayment of loans and deposits to related parties      21  –
Proceeds from repayment of other loans and deposits        38 –
Net	 cash	 used	 for	 investing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,351)	 (573)
Cash	 flow	 from	 financing	 activities
Related party borrowings – proceeds        – 136
Bank borrowings – proceeds        1,423 192
Related party borrowings – repayments        (1,011) (140)
Bank borrowings – repayments        (229) (1)
Proceeds from issuance of shares       25 3,055 –
Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement – repayment      5,31 (191) –
Net withdrawal of invested capital        – (183)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders        (500) –
Dividends paid to minority interests        (66) (4)
Net	 cash	 generated	 from	 financing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,481	 –
Net	 increase	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,209	 166
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year       336 165
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents        3 5
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 end	 of	 year       24 2,548	 336
CONSOLiDATED CASh f LOw S TATEmENT
fi NANCiAL STATEmENTS 68
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
 Attributable to equity holders of the Group
  Share Share Retained Translation Hedge  Minority Total 
In millions of US$ Note capital premium earnings* reserve reserves Total interests equity
Balance	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2005	 	 –	 –	 1,581	 86	 –	 1,667	 681	 2,348
Profit for the year  – – 550 – – 550 136 686
Currency translation differences  – – – 126 – 126 1 127
Total	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 	 for	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2006	 	 –	 –	 550	 126	 –	 676	 137	 813
Net withdrawal of invested capital 
 and distributions 5 – – (276) – – (276) (79) (355)
Change in minority interests 
 attributable to Government shares 2e – – 1,144 – – 1,144 (640) 504
Other changes in minority interests  – – – – – – (38) (38)
Share issue pursuant to share exchange 
 agreement  1a, 25 200 – (200) – – – – –
Promissory notes issued pursuant 1a 
 to share exchange agreement  2e, 26 – – (1,000) – – (1,000) – (1,000)
Balance	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 200	 –	 1,799	 212	 –	 2, 	 211	 61	 2,272
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 –	 –	 798	 –	 –	 798	 16	 814
Currency translation differences  – – – 165 – 165 3 168
Total	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 	 for	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 	 –	 –	 79 	 8	 165	 –	 963	 19	 982
Dividends paid  5 – – (500) – – (500) – (500)
Shares issued on initial public offering 25 58 2,999 – – – 3,057 – 3,057
Unrealised loss on cash flow hedge 33 – – – – (17) (17) – (17)
Other changes in minority interest  – – – – – – (5) (5)
Balance	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 258	 2,999	 2,097	 377	 (17)	 5,714	 75	 5,789
* At 31 December 2005, retained earnings represents invested capital (see note 1x).
CONSOLiDATED STATEmENT Of ChANGES iN Eq UiTy  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES
a) Basis of preparation 
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) is a leading diversified natural resources group with 
integrated mining, processing, energy, logistical and marketing operations. Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC (the ‘Company’) 
was incorporated and registered under the laws of England and Wales on 8 December 2006.
Prior to 2006, the Group operated under common management and was jointly controlled and majority owned by three Founder 
Shareholders, Mr PK Chodiev, Mr AR Ibragimov and Mr AA Machkevitch (the ‘Founder Shareholders’). The State Property and Privatisation 
Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan (the ’Committee’) owned a minority interest in the majority of the mining 
and metals processing operations in Kazakhstan. 
In preparation for the Initial Public Offering (‘IPO’), significant legal restructuring was undertaken in 2006 to create a group of companies 
containing only those operations and entities which would form part of the Group; other operations owned by the Founder Shareholders 
(primarily Eurasian Bank JSC and Eurasian Insurance Company JSC) were left under their private ownership. In addition, with effect from 
early 2006, Mr VS Kim acquired 25.0% of each of the Founder Shareholders’ interest in the new Group, and granted an option to Kazakhmys 
PLC for the purchase of this share of the Group (which was exercised in October 2007).
On 19 December 2006, the Founder Shareholders and Mr VS Kim, through their holding company, ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV, and the 
Committee exchanged their shares in the various mining and metals processing operations for 75.1% and 24.9% respectively of the issued 
share capital of ENRC NV (the then holding company). Immediately thereafter, the Company entered into an agreement with the Committee, 
ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV and ENRC NV to acquire the entire issued share capital of ENRC NV. Pursuant to the contract, ENRC Kazakhstan 
Holding BV and the Committee transferred their shareholdings in ENRC NV to the Company. The consideration was satisfied by: (i) the 
issuance by the Company of 15,026,900 ordinary shares of US$10.00 each in the capital of the Company credited as fully paid up to ENRC 
Kazakhstan Holding BV; (ii) the issuance by the Company of 4,973,100 ordinary shares of US$10.00 each in the capital of the Company 
credited as fully paid up to the Committee; and (iii) the issuance of promissory notes by the Company amounting to US$751,345,000 to 
ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV and US$248,655,000 to the Committee.
The transactions undertaken to create the Group structure (including the issuance of the promissory notes) represent a business 
combination between entities under common control. IFRS 3 Business Combinations specifically does not cover transactions between 
entities under common control, and the Group has elected to use merger accounting principles. The Group, together with certain relevant 
entities and operations formerly under common control, has been consolidated as one continuing business throughout 2006. The issuance 
of promissory notes, amounting to US$1 billion, was recorded as a distribution of retained earnings in 2006. 
Full details of the entities included in the consolidated financial statements are set out in note 37. The accounting for the transaction to 
exchange the Committee’s minority interest for shares in ENRC NV is disclosed in note 2e.
On 12 December 2007, the Company successfully completed its IPO and is now listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The accounting policies used in preparing these consolidated financial statements are described below and are based on International 
Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union (IFRS), and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. These standards are subject to interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretation 
Committee (IFRIC). These consolidated financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for 
the revaluation of certain financial instruments. 
b) Consolidated financial statements (‘financial statements’)
Subsidiaries are those companies and other entities in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has an interest of more than one half of the 
voting rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits. The existence and 
effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group 
controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group (acquisition date) and are de-consolidated from the 
date that control ceases.
c) Minority interests
Minority interests are that part of the net results and of the net assets, including the fair value adjustments, which are attributable to 
interests which are not owned, directly or indirectly, by the parent. Minority interests form a separate component of the Group’s equity.
The Group has adopted the ‘parent company method’ and applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions 
with parties external to the Group. Gains or losses arising from disposals of minority interests are recorded in the income statement. 
Goodwill arising from purchases of minority interests is recorded on the balance sheet. The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid 
over the book value of the minority interest represents goodwill.
The Group’s acquisition of the Committee’s minority interest on 19 December 2006 gave rise to goodwill of US$384 million (refer to notes 2e 
and 18). 70
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
d) Functional and presentation currency
All amounts in these financial statements are presented in US$ millions, unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency of all the significant operating entities is the Kazakhstani tenge (‘KZT’), whilst for the Sales and Marketing entities it 
is the US$. The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
it operates. The functional currency for the Company is the US$.
The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Kazakhstani tenge, expressed in Kazakhstani 
tenge per US$1.00.
 
Years ended 31 December        Period end Average rate
2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 120.30	 122.55
2006         127.00 126.09
Exchange restrictions and controls exist relating to the conversion of Kazakhstani tenge into other currencies. At present, the Kazakhstani 
tenge is not a freely convertible currency. 
e) Foreign currency translation
Transactions in currencies other than the local functional currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation 
of monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement. 
 
f) Translation from functional to presentation currency
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated 
into the presentation currency as follows: 
Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are 
translated at the dates of the transactions);
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity; and
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate at the date of acquisition. When a subsidiary is disposed of through sale, liquidation, repayment of 
share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity, the exchange differences deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement. 
g) Revenue recognition 
A significant portion of production is sold under contract. Revenue is only recognised on individual shipments when persuasive evidence 
exists that the following criteria are satisfied:
The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer. If it is arranged that the goods are 
transported to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point. The 
revenue from sales of many products is subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer. In such cases, 
revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Group’s best estimate of the quantity/quality of the product. Any 
subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of quantity/quality of the product is recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
Neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has 
been retained.
The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group.
Revenues from sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to the stage of 
completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual services provided, as a proportion of the total services to be 
provided. Revenues are shown net of VAT and discounts. 
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. When the fair value of goods received in a barter 
transaction cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or service given up.
h) Finance income and costs 
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains and income on investment and trading securities. Finance costs 
comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest expense from the unwinding of discount on 
provisions for asset retirement obligations and losses on the revaluation and disposal of investments designated at fair value through the 
income statement.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of financial expenses, unless incurred 
on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment which are capitalised during the period of time that is required 
to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Interest income and expense is recognised on a time proportion basis, using the 
effective interest method.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
> FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
i) Income tax
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Kazakhstani excess profit tax, as defined in 
note 1j below, which is payable on super profits, is treated as an income tax and forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises 
from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of 
the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred excess profits tax is calculated with respect to temporary differences in respect of assets allocated to contracts for subsurface use 
at the expected rate of excess profits tax to be paid under the contract.
j) Excess profits tax
Excess profits tax is payable under subsurface use contracts where the internal rate of return during the year is in excess of 20%. Liabilities 
for excess profits tax are recorded in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for current and deferred tax and based on 
management’s understanding of the provisions of the subsurface use contracts and tax regulations. 
Where the Group’s operations, within one production cycle, are divided into operations conducted under a subsurface use contract 
(subsurface use operations) and non-contractual operations (processing of products derived from subsurface use operations), for the 
purpose of the excess profits tax calculation, revenues from the internal transfer of product from the subsurface use operations to divisions 
operating the processing plants are recorded at the actual cost of extraction of the products. In all other cases, for the purposes of the 
excess profits tax calculation, revenue from external sales of product from subsurface use operations are recorded at the prices at which the 
products were actually sold.
k) Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the 
balance sheet date. Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after the 
balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
l) Finance leases and hire purchase commitments
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the inception of the 
lease. Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The capital elements, net 
of finance charges, of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as current- or long-term payables in 
the balance sheet, as appropriate. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to the income statement. 
Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
m) Operating leases
Where the Group is a lessee in a lease which does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership from the lessor 
to the Group, the total lease payments, including those on expected termination, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease. For operating leases relating to the use of mining facilities, rental expense is recognised in cost of sales. 
For operating leases relating to the use of administrative facilities, rental expense is recognised in selling, general and administrative 
expenses in the income statement.
Where the Group is a lessor under an operating lease, the lease payments receivable are recognised as rental income on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. 72
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
n) Exploration and evaluation 
Exploration and evaluation costs related to an area of interest are written off as incurred. At the time that it is considered probable that 
future costs will be recovered through successful development and exploitation of the area of interest, or alternatively through its sale, they 
are carried forward as an asset in the balance sheet and are included within mining assets.
Capitalised costs include costs directly related to exploration and evaluation activities in the relevant area of interest. Selling, general and 
administrative expenses are allocated to an exploration or evaluation asset only to the extent that those costs can be related directly to 
operational activities in the relevant area of interest. All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment if 
facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
Identifiable exploration assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as assets at their fair value, as determined by the 
requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred subsequent to the acquisition is accounted 
for in accordance with the policy outlined above.
o) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost (or deemed cost) less accumulated depreciation and any impairment charges. Depreciation 
is recorded over the useful life of the asset, or over the expected remaining life of the mine if shorter, as follows:
Buildings and mining constructions: 20 to 50 years on a straight-line basis;
Mining assets: on a units of production basis;
Plant and equipment: 6 to 15 years on a straight-line basis;
Motor vehicles: 5 to 15 years on a straight-line basis; and
Land is not depreciated.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually, and any change in estimate is taken into account in the determination 
of future depreciation charges.
The individual significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment (components), whose useful lives are different from the useful 
life of the asset as a whole, are depreciated individually, applying depreciation rates reflecting their anticipated useful lives. The cost of 
replacing major parts or components of property, plant and equipment items is capitalised and the replaced part is retired. 
Subsequent costs are included in an asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Specialised spare parts and servicing equipment with a significant initial value and a useful life of more than one year are recognised as 
items of property, plant and equipment. Other spare parts and servicing-related equipment are recognised as inventories and accounted for 
in the income statement on utilisation.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income 
statement when the asset is retired.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with 
the impairment policy below.
i) Mining assets
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure is capitalised under ‘mining assets’ together with amounts 
transferred from ‘exploration and evaluation’. Mining assets include expenditure incurred to establish or expand productive capacity, costs 
to conduct mining-construction and mining-capital works, as well as costs arising from mining preparation works during the development or 
mine reconstruction phase.
Development expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically 
recoverable resources have been identified. Such expenditure comprises costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the 
related infrastructure, including the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
When further development expenditure is incurred in respect of a mining asset after the commencement of production, such expenditure is 
carried forward as part of mining assets when it is probable that additional future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will 
flow to the Group. Otherwise such expenditure is recognised as a cost of production.
Once a project has been fully commissioned, depreciation is charged using the units of production method, based on proved and probable 
reserves, with separate calculations being made for each area of interest. The units-of-production basis results in a depreciation charge 
proportional to the depletion of proved and probable reserves. 
Mining assets are included within the category ‘Buildings and mining constructions’ of property, plant and equipment.
>
>
>
>
> FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
ii) Assets under construction
Assets under construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment. Self-constructed assets include the 
cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category. Assets under construction are not depreciated. 
Depreciation commences on the earlier of the date when the assets are brought into service or the assets are available for use.
iii) Stripping costs
Stripping costs comprise the removal of overburden and other waste products from a mine. Stripping costs incurred in the development of 
mines and open pits before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mines and open pits, as part of 
mining assets, and are subsequently depreciated using the units-of-production method over the lives of the mines or open pits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of operations are expensed as a production cost and included within the cost of 
inventory.
p) Impairment 
Property, plant and equipment and all other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that 
impairment may exist.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of ‘value in use’ (being the net 
present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit) and ‘fair value less costs to sell’ (the amount obtainable 
from the sale of an asset or cash generating unit in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of 
disposal). Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available 
to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arm’s-length transaction. A cash generating unit is the 
smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or 
groups of assets. 
The estimates used for impairment reviews are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets, modified as appropriate to meet the 
requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. Future cash flows are based on:
estimates of the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction;
future production levels;
future commodity prices (assuming the current market prices will revert to the Group’s assessment of the long-term average price, 
generally over a period of three to five years); and
future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, close down, restoration and environmental clean up.
The expected future cash flows of cash generating units reflect long-term mine and production plans which are based on detailed research, 
analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction. The plans take account 
of all relevant characteristics of the ore body, including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical 
properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing and production equipment that can be used in extraction 
of ore and production of final products. The mine and production plans are therefore the basis for forecasting production output in each 
future year and the related production costs. Value in use represents discounted pre-tax cash flows discounted on the pre-tax long-term rate 
of capitalisation. Fair value less costs to sell is determined based on market information. 
For impairment reviews, recent cost levels are considered, together with expected changes in costs that are compatible with the current 
condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS 36. IAS 36 includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows that 
can be recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement-related capital expenditure. 
The pre-tax discount rate applied is based upon the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustment for the risks 
associated with the relevant cash flows, to the extent that such risks are not reflected in the forecast cash flows. If the carrying amount of 
the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce 
the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable 
amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment. This reversal is recognised in the 
income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognised in prior years.
>
>
>
> 74
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
q) g oodwill
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for business combinations. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of 
the assets given up, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition. The date of exchange is the acquisition date where a business combination is achieved in a single transaction, and is the 
date of each share purchase where a business combination is achieved in stages by successive share purchases. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the acquiree at each exchange transaction represents goodwill. 
Any excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired over the cost 
of acquisition (‘excess of acquirer’s interest’ or ‘negative goodwill’) is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with the impairment policy described on page 73.
r) Intangible assets 
Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value when the fair value can be 
measured reliably on initial recognition. Intangible assets are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may 
exist, in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
s) Financial assets
Recognition 
Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the relevant settlement date, which is the date that an asset is delivered to 
or by the Group. The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is not recognised for assets carried at cost or amortised 
cost. The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held 
for trading or designated on initial recognition as ‘at fair value through income statement’. Fair value at the trade date (initial recognition) is 
best evidenced by the transaction price. A gain or loss on initial recognition is only recorded if there is a difference between fair value and 
transaction price which can be evidenced by other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or by a valuation 
technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets.
The Group derecognises financial assets when: (i) the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets have otherwise 
expired; (ii) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets; or (iii) the Group has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but has not retained control. Control is retained if the counterparty 
does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional 
restrictions on the sale.
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: loans and receivables, and fair value instruments 
through the income statement. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management 
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
i) Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are unquoted non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments other than those that the Group 
intends to sell in the near term. Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, loans and 
receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method. Where a loan is provided at interest rates different from market 
rates, the loan is re-measured at origination at its fair value, which is represented by future interest payments and principal repayments 
discounted at market interest rates for similar loans. The difference between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost (fair value of 
the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs) represents an origination gain or loss.
The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income/costs unless it qualifies for recognition as an asset, 
liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement. Subsequently, the carrying amount of the loans is 
adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income/costs using the effective yield 
method. 
Loans and receivables are included in current assets in the balance sheet, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance 
sheet date. These are classified as non-current assets.
ii) Assets designated at fair value through income statement
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this 
category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as financial assets at fair value 
through the income statement unless they are designated as hedges.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
Fair value estimation 
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a 
forced sale or liquidation, and is best evidenced by an active quoted market price.
The estimated fair values of financial instruments have been determined by the Group using available market information, where it exists, 
and appropriate valuation methodologies. However, judgement is necessarily required to interpret market data to determine the estimated 
fair value. The Republic of Kazakhstan continues to display some characteristics of an emerging market and economic conditions continue to 
limit the volume of activity in the financial markets. Market quotations may be outdated or reflect distress sale transactions and therefore 
not represent fair values of financial instruments. Management has used all available market information in estimating the fair value of 
financial instruments.
Differences between fair value and carrying value are recognised in other operating income or expense in the income statement. 
i) Financial instruments carried at fair value 
Trading investments and financial derivatives recognised at fair value through the income statement and financial derivatives, including 
those classified as non-current assets held for sale, are carried on the consolidated balance sheets at their fair value. 
Fair values are determined based on quoted market prices except for certain investment securities available-for-sale for which there are no 
available external independent market price quotations. These securities are fair valued by the Group on the basis of results of recent sales 
of equity interests in the investees between unrelated third parties, consideration of other relevant information such as discounted cash 
flows and financial data of the investees and application of other valuation methodologies. Valuation techniques require certain 
assumptions that were not supported by observable market data. Changing any such assumptions used to a reasonably possible alternative 
would not result in a significantly different profit, income, total assets or total liabilities. 
ii) Financial assets carried at amortised cost 
The fair value of floating rate instruments is normally their carrying amount. The estimated fair value of fixed interest rate instruments is 
based on estimated future cash flows expected to be received discounted at current interest rates for new instruments with similar credit 
risk and remaining maturity. Discount rates used depend on credit risk of the counterparty. Carrying amounts of trade receivables 
approximate fair values. 
iii) Liabilities carried at amortised cost 
The fair value is based on quoted market prices, if available. The estimated fair value of fixed interest rate instruments with stated maturity, 
for which a quoted market price is not available, is estimated based on expected cash flows discounted at current interest rates for new 
instruments with similar credit risk and remaining maturity. The fair value of liabilities repayable on demand or after a notice period 
(‘demandable liabilities’) is estimated as the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required 
to be paid. Refer to note 26 for the estimated fair values of borrowings. 
t) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Within the ordinary course of business the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for commodities. These transactions 
take the form of contracts that are entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the commodity in accordance 
with the Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage requirements. Such contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement. Any net-settled commodity contracts are measured at fair value with gains and losses taken to the income 
statement. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair 
value is negative on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of 
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the 
item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 
hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitment (fair value hedge);
hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge); or
hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedge). 
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk 
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting 
changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Management policy is to hedge a proportion of foreign exchange risk associated with highly probable forecast transactions denominated in 
foreign currencies, refer to note 34 for details. 
>
>
> 76
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within ‘other operating expense – net’. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for instance 
when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward exchange contracts hedging 
export sales is recognised in the income statement within ‘cost of sales’. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or 
loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income 
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 
transferred to the income statement. 
Movements on derivatives not designated as hedge derivatives are taken to ‘other operating expense – net’ in the income statement. 
Refer to notes 33 and 34 for disclosure of derivatives and financial risk management. 
u) Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition. Cost for raw 
materials is purchase price or extraction cost and for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate 
proportion of depreciation and overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to 
completion and disposal.
v) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest yield 
method less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, which is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the 
original effective interest rate. The movement in the provision from the previous reporting period is recognised in the income statement. 
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously 
written off are credited against ‘selling, general and administration expenses’ in the income statement. 
w) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less for cash flow purposes. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the 
balance sheet. Balances restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date are 
included in other non-current assets, while balances restricted for more than three months but less than 12 months after the balance sheet 
date are included in trade and other receivables. Restricted balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
cash flow statement.
x) Invested capital 
The Company did not exist until 8 December 2006, and did not become the parent company for the Group until 19 December 2006. Invested 
capital represents the difference between the cumulative investment in the entities and businesses which form part of the combined ENRC 
PLC Group and the minority interests.
y) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs, including facility fees, incurred and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination to its fair value, which is 
calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans. The difference 
between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost (fair value of the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs) 
represents an origination gain or loss. The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income/costs unless it 
qualifies for recognition as an asset, liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement. Subsequently, the 
carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance 
income/cost using the effective interest yield method on the asset/liability.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least  
12 months after balance sheet date. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
z) Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where 
there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class 
of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same 
class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to 
passage of time is recognised as finance cost.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a 
separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
aa) Asset retirement obligations and other environmental provisions
An obligation to incur asset retirement costs occurs when environmental disturbance is caused by exploration, evaluation, development or 
ongoing production. Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review.
Asset retirement costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are 
provided when the obligation to incur such costs arises and are capitalised into the cost of the related asset. These costs are charged 
against profits through depreciation of the asset and unwinding of the discount on the provision. Depreciation is included in operating costs 
while the unwinding of the discount is included as a financing cost. Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the 
decommissioning or site rehabilitation of plant and other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset.
The costs for the restoration of environmental disturbance, which arise during production, are provided at their net present values and 
charged against operating profits as extraction progresses. A change in the measurement of a liability which arises during production is 
charged against operating profit.
The discount rate used to measure the net present value of the obligations is the pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessment of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
ab) Employee benefit obligations
Defined benefit plans
The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees in Kazakhstan before, on and after retirement, in accordance with a labour 
union agreement. Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 
There are no post retirement/long-term service benefits provided in any other country where the Group operates. 
The future benefit that employees have earned is discounted to determine the present value. The discount rate is the yield at the balance 
sheet date on government bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s benefit obligations. The calculation is 
performed annually by a qualified, independent actuary. 
The expected costs of the benefits associated with one-off retirement payments are accrued over the period of employment using the same 
accounting methodology as used for defined benefit post-employment plans. For defined benefit post-employment plans, the difference 
between the fair value of the plan assets (if any) and the present value of the defined liabilities obligations is recognised as an asset or 
liability on the balance sheet. Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the income statement. For this purpose, actuarial 
gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences 
between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred. 
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including current service cost, any past service cost 
and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Defined contribution plans
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash 
refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Other post retirement/long-term service benefits 
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the completion of a minimum service period. The expected cost of these benefits 
is accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for the defined benefit plans.  78
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg POLICIES CONTINUED
Payroll expense and related contributions 
Wages, salaries, and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year 
in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group. On behalf of its employees, the Group pays those statutory 
pension and post-employment benefit amounts prescribed by the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates. These payments 
are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement of the employee, the financial obligations of the Group, in this regard, cease and all subsequent 
payments to retired employees are administered by the state and private cumulative pension funds.
Share-based bonus awards
The Group operates an equity settled share-based bonus award scheme in respect of the Directors, management, senior employees and 
professional advisers’ contribution to the Group’s preparations for admission to the London Stock Exchange. The fair value of the employee 
services received, measured by reference to the fair value of the shares granted at the grant date less nominal value, is recognised as initial 
public offering cost in the income statement. 
ac) Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ad) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
 
ae) Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it 
incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantees 
are initially recognised at their fair value. Financial guarantees are recognised when premiums are paid or in the case of premium-free 
guarantees when the borrower received the money from the financing entity. When the Group issues premium-free guarantees or guarantees 
at a premium different form the market premium, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques (e.g. market prices of similar 
instruments, interest rate differentials, etc). Losses at initial recognition of financial guarantee liabilities are recognised in the income 
statement within other operating expenses. Financial guarantee liabilities are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the 
guarantee with the respective income presented within other operating income. At each balance sheet date, the guarantees are measured at 
the higher of: (i) the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition; and (ii) the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date.
2. CRITICAL ACCOUNTINg ESTIMATES AND j UDg EMENTS IN APPLyINg ACCOUNTIN g POLICIES
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the 
related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a) Ore reserve estimates
The Group’s ore reserves are based on its best estimate of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the relevant mining 
properties. Estimates are developed after taking into account a range of factors including quantities, ore grades, production techniques and 
recovery rates, forecast commodity prices and production costs.
The Group’s estimates are supported by geological studies and drilling samples to determine the quantity and grade of each ore body. 
Significant judgement is required to generate an estimate based on the geological data available.
Ore reserve estimates are calculated based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves of December 2004 (the JORC code) which requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including:
future production estimates – which include proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and committed expansions;
expected future commodity prices, based on current market price, forward prices and the Group’s assessment of the long-term average 
price; and
future cash costs of production, capital expenditure and rehabilitation obligations.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period. This may impact the Group’s financial results. Such changes in reserves may 
impact depreciation charges, asset carrying values, and asset retirement obligation provisions.
 
>
>
> FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
2. CRITICAL ACCOUNTINg ESTIMATES AND j UDg EMENTS IN APPLyINg ACCOUNTIN g POLICIES CONTINUED
b) Life of mines
Contracts for subsurface use expire between 2017 and 2045. Management expects that the subsurface use contracts will be extended at 
nominal cost until the end of the lives of the related mines. Any change to this assumption may impact the Group’s financial results by 
affecting depreciation charges, asset carrying values and asset retirement obligations, as these have been recorded on the assumption that 
the subsurface use contracts will be extended until the end of the mine life. During 2007, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
confirmed by letter, addressed to the Group, that the Group is entitled to prolong the contracts under the contractual terms and the 
subsurface use legislation. If the contracts are not renewed at their current expiry dates, the carrying amount of property, plant and 
equipment existing at the expiry date to be written off at the date of expiry is valued at US$450 million as at 31 December 2007  
(2006 : US$330 million). 
c) Provision for asset retirement obligations 
Provision is made for asset retirement obligations when the related environmental disturbance takes place. Provisions are recognised at the 
net present value of future expected costs as outlined in note 1aa.
The provision recognised represents management’s best estimate of the costs that will be incurred but significant judgement is required as 
many of these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine. Estimates are reviewed annually and are based on management’s 
interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Significant changes in environmental 
legislation, restoration techniques and estimates of contamination will result in changes to provisions from period to period.
The engineering estimates evaluated by management are reviewed annually by independent mining engineering consultants.
The inflation rate currently applied in the calculation is 8.3% as at 31 December 2007 (2006 : 7.4%) being the estimate of the rate of inflation 
over the mine lives. The discount rate currently applied in the calculation is 7.4% at 31 December 2007 (2006 : 8.0%) being the estimate of 
the risk-free pre-tax cost of borrowings over the life of mines. Rehabilitation expenditure is largely expected to take place at the end of the 
respective mine lives, which varies from 30 to 42 years, with an average, weighted by the estimated closure date, provision of 33 years.
d) Impairment 
The Group considers internal and external indicators of impairment relating to its tangible and intangible assets. The Group considers 
internal and external indicators of impairment relating to its tangible and intangible assets. The effects of exchange rate and commodity 
price changes on the asset values of the businesses in the Group relative to their carrying values are monitored closely. 
e) Valuation of the g overnment transaction 
As described in note 1a, on 19 December 2006 the Committee exchanged its shares in the principal mining and metal processing 
subsidiaries for a 24.9% shareholding in ENRC NV; on the same day it exchanged its ENRC NV shares for 24.9% of the ordinary share capital 
of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC and a promissory note of US$249 million.
At 19 December 2006, Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC was a privately held company whose shares were not publicly traded. 
Accordingly, it was necessary to establish an appropriate basis for determining the fair value of shares issued, as in the absence of an active 
market an alternative valuation technique had to be used.
Management determined that the transaction in 2006, whereby the three Founder Shareholders sold 25% of ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV 
(the then parent company for the ENRC Group) for US$751 million to Mr V S Kim (’Kim transaction’), could be used as an appropriate 
reference value for the 24.9% Government shareholding. An additional 10.0% uplift was considered to reflect the additional value created 
during 2006 by ENRC following the completion of the legal restructuring and preparation for a 2007 IPO as well as movements in market 
indices in 2006. The deemed fair value of the 24.9% shareholding in Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC amounted to US$1 billion 
which resulted in goodwill amounting to US$384 million.
f) Tax legislation
Kazakhstan tax legislation is subject to varying interpretations (refer to note 32). 80
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
3. NEw ACCOUNTIN g PRONOUNCEMENTS
The Group has early adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments disclosures from 1 January 2006. IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures relating to 
financial instruments. This standard does not have any impact on the classification and valuation of the Group’s financial instruments.
The following new standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the Group’s accounting year ended 
31 December 2007 which the Group has not early adopted:
IFRS 8  Operating segments (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009). 
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 (Amendment)  Group and treasury share transactions (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 
2007). IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury shares or 
involving Group entities (for instance, options over a parent’s shares) should be accounted for as equity-
settled or cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
IAS 23 (Revised)  Borrowing costs (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 – not yet endorsed by  
the EU).
IAS 1 (Revised) Presentation of financial statements (effective from 1 January 2009 – not yet endorsed by the EU). 
IAS 27 (Revised)   Consolidated and separate financial statements (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 July 
2009 – not yet endorsed by the EU).
IFRS 2 (Amendment)  Share-based payment and amendment vesting conditions and cancellations (effective from periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2009 – not yet endorsed by the EU).
IFRS 3 (Revised)  Business combinations (effective for business combinations after 1 July 2009 – not yet endorsed by
  the EU). 
These new standards and interpretations are not expected to significantly affect the Group’s financial statements.
The following new standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the Group’s accounting year ended 
31 December 2007 and which will not be relevant for the Group (not yet endorsed by the EU):
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008).
IFRIC 13  Customer loyalty programmes (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008).
IFRIC 14  The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction (effective 
from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008).
4. SEgMENT INFORMATION 
The Group’s primary format for reporting segment information is business segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a 
reasonable basis. Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and receivables and 
mainly exclude investments and income tax balances. Segment liabilities comprise primarily trade and other payables. Capital expenditure 
comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related 
income, interest-bearing loans, borrowings and finance income costs and taxation. 
The Group is organised on the basis of five main business segments: 
Ferroalloys – Principal activity comprises the extraction and sale of chrome ore as well as the production of ferroalloys from chromium 
and manganese ores.
Iron ore – Principal activity comprises extraction, processing and manufacturing of iron ore products. 
Alumina and Aluminium – Principal activity comprises extraction and processing of bauxite and limestone, and smelting of alumina and 
aluminium.
Energy – Principal activity comprises coal production and power generation.
Logistics – Kazakhstan’s main freight forwarder and railroad operator, providing international logistics for all ENRC operations; also rail 
construction and repair services for the Kazakhstani state rail company.
Internal charges between segments have been reflected in the performance of each business segment. The Group has a number of activities 
that exist principally to support the mining operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation. Inter-segment transfers 
or transactions are entered into under a cost plus pricing structure. 
>
>
>
>
> FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
4. SEgMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
Segment information for the main reportable business segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 is set out 
below:
2007	Segmental	analysis
    Alumina and 
In millions of US$  Ferroalloys Iron ore Aluminium  Energy Logistics Corporate  Eliminations Group
Revenue  2,178 991 607 181 149 – – 4,106
Inter-segment revenues  – – 1 133 83 – (217) –
Segment	 revenue	 	 2,178	 991	 608	 314	 232	 –	 (217)	 4,106
Segment	 operating	 profit	 	 1,038	 359	 159	 71	 27	 (233)	 –	 1,421
Finance income         58
Finance costs         (158)
Profit	 before	 income	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,321
Income tax expense         (507)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 814
EBITDA	 before	 exceptional	 items	 	 1,138	 448	 220	 107	 44	 (51)	 –	 1,906
Depreciation and amortisation  (100) (89) (61) (36) (17) – – (303)
Exceptional items  – – – – – (182) – (182)
Segment	 operating	 profit	 	 1,038	 359	 159	 71	 27	 (233)	 –	 1,421
Capital	 expenditure	 	 168	 227	 365	 89	 57	 5	 –	 911
Segment	 assets	 	 1,962	 1,222	 1,396	 514	 245	 52	 (27)	 5,364
Segment	 liabilities	 	 (259)	 (145)	 (117)	 (37)	 (39)	 (76)	 27	 (646)
         4,718
Unallocated	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 (net)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 201
Prepayment	 –	 Serov	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 100
IPO	 Proceeds	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,461
Loans	 receivable	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 35
Borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,424)
Deferred	 and	 current	 income	 taxation	 (net)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (302)
Total	 equity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5,789
Average	 number	 of	 employees	 	 	 21,020	 19,420	 13,870	 6,420	 3,200	 220	 	 64,150
Geographical segment information for the main reportable business segments of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 is set out 
below:
g eographical segmental analysis
      Europe and  Rest of  
In millions of US$     Eurasia* Middle East Asia Pacific* World Total
2007	 Revenue     2,167 566 1,114 259 4,106
Assets     4,655 609 47 53 5,364
Capital expenditure     907 4 – – 911
* Eurasia comprises Kazakhstan, Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union; Asia Pacific comprises China, Korea and Japan. 82
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
4. SEgMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
2006	Segmental	analysis
    Alumina and 
In millions of US$  Ferroalloys Iron ore Aluminium  Energy Logistics Corporate  Eliminations Group
Revenue  1,473 829 602 154 198 – – 3,256
Inter-segment revenues  – – 10 109 79 – (198) –
Segment	 revenue	 	 1,473 829 612 263 277 – (198) 3,256
Segment	 operating	 profit	 	 476 244 226 41 38 (28) – 997
Finance income         24
Finance costs         (50)
Profit	 before	 income	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 971
 
Income tax expense         (285)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 686 
EBITDA	 before	 exceptional	 items	 	 547 323 277 77 54 (22) – 1,256
Depreciation and amortisation  (71) (79) (51) (36) (16) – – (253)
Exceptional items  – – – – – (6) – (6)
Segment	 operating	 profit	 	 476 244 226 41 38 (28) – 997
Capital	 expenditure	 	 170 107 227 42 16 1  563
Segment	 assets	 	 1,584 1,096 887 365 246 58  4,236
Segment	 liabilities	 	 (243) (146) (69) (24) (72) –  (554)
          3,682
Unallocated	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 (net)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 73
Loans	 receivable	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 261
Borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,484)
Deferred	 and	 current	 income	 taxation	 (net)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (260)
Total	 equity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,272
Average	 number	 of	 employees	 	 20,500 18,750 12,500 6,300 3,800 150  62,000
Geographical segment information for the main reportable business segments of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006 is set out 
below:
g eographical segmental analysis
      Europe and  Rest of  
In millions of US$     Eurasia* Middle East Asia Pacific* World Total
2006
Revenue     1,724 405 957 170 3,256
Assets     3,795 357 35 49 4,236
Capital expenditure     563 – – – 563
* Eurasia comprises Kazakhstan, Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union; Asia Pacific comprises China, Korea and Japan.
External revenue is based on where the customer is located. Segment assets and capital expenditure are based on where the assets are 
located.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
5. BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS w ITH RELATED PARTIES 
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party,  
is under common control, or can exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial and operational decisions. In 
considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.  
The nature of the related party relationships for those related parties with whom the Group entered into significant transactions or had 
significant balances outstanding are detailed below. All balances and transactions are with entities under common control or entities 
controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
 
Founder Shareholders
As described in note 1a, the Group has been formed from a collection of entities jointly controlled by the three Founder Shareholders,  
Mr PK Chodiev, Mr AR Ibragimov and Mr AA Machkevitch. During the reporting periods, the Group undertook significant related party 
transactions with entities controlled by the three Founder Shareholders. These transactions were undertaken at contracted rates, which 
were not necessarily on an arm’s length basis pre-IPO. The principal activities conducted with related parties were as follows:
Surplus cash in the plants in Kazakhstan was lent to Eurasian Bank JSC at below market interest rates. Loans were also drawn from 
Eurasian Bank JSC. A summary is provided below.
Insurance cover was provided by Eurasian insurance company JSC at the regulated rates.
Coal purchases were made from Shubarkol Komir JSC and Mugotecs Coal Mining JSC, at below market rates.
Post IPO, all transactions with related parties will be approved by the Board and be on an arm’s length basis.
The tables below summarise the related party transactions and balances with entities under common control:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Revenue	 from	 sale	 of	 goods
Ferroalloys*        95 52
Iron ore        5 –
Energy        8 –
  
Other	 income
Insurance, commission and other income        23 31
Expenses
Purchase of raw materials        (79) (25)
Insurance        (45) (76)
Selling, general and administrative expenses        (38) (37) 
Finance income        28 19
Finance costs        (36) (26)
Bank charges        (8) (9)
* Mainly to Serov.
The outstanding balances with entities under common control at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 are as follows:
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Non-current	 assets
Loans receivable       20 7 21
Other non-current assets       21 114 8
Current	 assets
Trade and other receivables       23 107 88
Loans receivable       20 26 208
Term deposits       23 138 38
Cash and cash equivalents        76 221
Non-current	 liabilities
Borrowings: 
 Promissory note         – 601
 Other        26 – 42
Current	 liabilities
Borrowings:
 Promissory note         – 150
 Other        26 1 215
Trade and other payables       29 6 65
Other non-current assets include an initial payment of US$100 million made on 16 July 2007 as part of the acquisition of Serov Group. Refer 
to note 36.
>
>
> 84
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
5. BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS w ITH RELATED PARTIES CONTINUED
Promissory notes
During December 2006, promissory notes for US$1 billion were issued by the Group (recorded as distribution of Retained Earnings) in which 
the Group promised to pay the principal sums of US$751 million and US$249 million to ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV and to the Ministry of 
Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, respectively, refer to note 1a. 
In the year ended 31 December 2007, the promissory notes were fully repaid. The repayment was financed through an increase in the 
structured trade finance facility referred to in note 26 and from the IPO proceeds. During the year ended 31 December 2007 US$24 million 
(2006 : US$2 million) and US$8 million (2006 : US$1 million) of interest were incurred in relation to the promissory notes, to ENRC 
Kazakhstan Holding BV and the Committee, respectively. 
 
Other rights and obligations with related parties at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 are set out below:
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Guarantees issued by the Group       32 19 50
The table below summarises the outstanding balances with Eurasian Bank JSC at:
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Long-term deposits and restricted cash       21 5 6
Term deposits       23 138 38
Other receivables        – 6
Cash and cash equivalents        76 221
Letters of credit        21,23 16 1
Borrowings – non current        – (12)
Borrowings – current        – (1)
Other payables        – (2)
Net position        235 257
The effective interest rate for short-term deposits for the year ended 31 December 2007 is 8.4% (2006 : 5.9%). 
In 2007, the Group agreed to maintain until October 2008 certain existing term deposits with Eurasian Bank amounting to US$123 million.
 
Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement
During June 2007, the Group undertook a series of transactions to consolidate a number of assets and liabilities outstanding with various 
companies under the control of the Founder Shareholders. There was a settlement of the overall outstanding balance to eliminate amounts 
owing from Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC subsidiaries to the shareholder group.
As a result of the above transactions, the inter-company balances within the ENRC Group were significantly reduced. The inter-company 
balances (excluding certain balances, which existed with the immediate shareholders of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC on 
formation of the Group) now exist entirely between the subsidiaries of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC as opposed to being  
in place between the Founder Shareholders of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC and its subsidiaries. 
The following loans have been settled as part of the Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement:
Kherson Holding BV 
The Group received financing loans from Kherson Holding BV, a related party, for the amount of US$54 million. The loan agreements 
specified an interest rate of 0% and that the principal was to be repaid by 2010. The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2006 
was US$28 million. As at 31 December 2007, these loans had been reassigned to ENRC NV as a part of the reassignment process resulting 
from the Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement.
CIM global Investments BV
During December 2006, CIM Global Investments BV provided a short-term loan of US$47 million to the Group for the purpose of financing the 
construction of the aluminium smelter. The loan bore interest at the rate of 5.0% per annum and as at 31 December 2007 had been settled in 
full as part of the Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement.
ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV
During December 2006, ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV provided a short-term loan of US$139 million to the Group for the purpose of financing 
the construction of the aluminium smelter. The loan bore interest at the rate of LIBOR plus 1.0% and as at 31 December 2007 had been 
settled in full as part of the Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
5. BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS w ITH RELATED PARTIES CONTINUED
Kazakhstan Minerals Resource Corporation (‘KMRC’) 
The Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC (‘EEC’) concluded an Investment Agreement with KMRC according to which KMRC had committed to 
invest US$5 million annually from 2000 until 2009 and US$20 million annually from 2010 until 2024. The total amount to be invested was 
equal to US$344 million. The carrying amount of this loan at the year ended 31 December 2006 was US$13 million. In light of the legal 
restructuring, the Committee agreed to annul KMRC’s obligation, during 2007, on condition that Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC 
committed in writing to the planned capital expenditure investment programme at EEC. Refer to note 32.
Republic of Kazakhstan
In addition to conducting transactions with entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders, the Group conducted transactions with entities 
controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan. The principal activities were as follows:
Provision of railway repair services through Remput LLP and Company Zhol zhondeushi LLP;
Supply of electricity through Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC; and
Operating costs, including appropriate taxes.
All revenue-generating transactions between the Group and government departments and agencies are considered to be related party 
transactions. Costs of transactions between the Group and government departments and agencies are also considered to be related party 
transactions unless they meet all of the following criteria:
They were done in the normal course of the government departments and agencies dealings;
There is no choice of suppliers; and
They have terms and conditions (including prices, privileges, credit terms, regulations etc.) that are consistently applied to all entities, 
public or private.
The related party transactions with government departments and agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan are set out below: 
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Revenue from the provision of services        134 173
Revenue from the sale of goods        6 3
The Group did not have any non-standard or privileged transactions with entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
 
Other transactions
Balances outstanding with pre-IPO shareholders were as follows:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Distributions payable       29 4 133
Transactions with Founder Shareholders are summarised below:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Distributions paid        282 246
Other movements in invested capital (net)        – 30
Distributions paid represent declared dividends. A total amount of US$500 million interim dividend was paid in 2007, of which 
US$282 million pertains to the Founder Shareholders. 
Other movements in invested capital (net) represent earnings of entities or businesses previously held under common control, retained 
directly by the Founder Shareholders and the residual profits of the Russian Trading Structure.
>
>
>
>
>
> 86
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
5. BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS w ITH RELATED PARTIES CONTINUED
Key management compensation
Key management compensation is summarised below:
        Years ended 31 December
In thousands of US$        2007 2006
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits, including bonuses      29,349 25,782
IPO bonus        85,899 –
Total        115,248 25,782
Balances outstanding with key management arising from key management compensation were as follows:
        Years ended 31 December
In thousands of US$        2007 2006
Receivables from key management        5,388 –
Payables to key management        (13,887) –
Board compensation 
Compensation payable to directors of the Company (including individuals acting in the capacity of Director during the period presented) is 
for the services performed for the Group. 
Directors’ detailed emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 62.
IPO bonus 
The Company has granted US$150 million cash and share awards to Directors, management, senior employees and other advisers in respect 
of their contribution to the Group’s preparations for Admission. US$41 million cash awards and US$109 million worth of ordinary shares, 
(10,000,000 shares with a nominal value of US$0.20 each) were awarded. 
6. REVENUE
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Sales of goods         3,861 2,965
Logistics        149 198
Sales of by-products and other income        96 93
Total	 revenue        4,106 3,256
7. COST OF SALES
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Materials and components used        (835) (721)
Staff costs        (354) (295)
Depreciation and amortisation         (271) (241)
Power and energy        (65) (54)
Royalties and other taxes        (52) (24)
Repairs and maintenance        (35) (24)
Commission        (24) (34)
Insurance        (28) (48)
In-plant carriage costs        (11) (5)
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress      38 (4)
Realised gain on the cash flow hedge        4 –
Other        (68) (92)
Total	 cost	 of	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,701) (1,542)
8. DISTRIBUTION COSTS
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Transportation costs        (269) (309)
Insurance         (19) (28)
Taxes and duties        (18) (3)
Agency fees        (17) (13)
Other        (50) (54)
Total	 distribution	 costs        (373) (407) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
9. SELLINg, g ENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ExPENSES
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Staff costs        (290) (96)
Professional and other services        (74) (35)
Sponsorship and donations        (34) (24)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment        (32) (12)
Taxes other than on income        (47) (29)
Travel and entertainment        (20) (18)
Rent        (12) (9)
Bank charges        (11) (12)
Impairment loss provision        (5) (4)
Utilities        (5) (5)
Repairs and maintenance        (4) (7)
Insurance        (4) (2)
Other        (68) (37)
Total	 selling,	 general	 and	 administrative	 expenses       (606) (290)
Costs	 incurred	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 initial	 public	 offering	 (exceptional	 items)     (182) (6)
Exceptional item
Costs related directly to the new issue of shares have been deducted from equity. Attributable IPO costs are allocated between the share 
premium account and income statement in proportion to the number of new shares issued compared to the existing number of shares. Other 
costs attributable to the Listing have been expensed.
Costs expensed for the year ended 31 December 2007, in relation to the initial public offering, are US$182 million of which US$150 million 
IPO bonuses are included in staff costs in the table above. The remaining US$32 million is in professional and other services. Refer to note 5. 
Costs of US$96 million have been taken to equity. Refer to note 15 for the tax effect. 
10. OTHER OPERATINg E xPENSES – NET
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Net foreign exchange losses        (8) (16)
Net (losses)/gains on financial instruments and derivatives      (32) 3
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment       (1) (9)
Net income/(expense) from sale of other assets       7 (3)
Insurance income        13 7
Other income/(expense)         16 (2)
Total	 other	 operating	 expenses	 –	 net        (5) (20)
11. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor as detailed below:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Audit	 services
Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements
1
   1.4 –
Non-audit	 services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation      2.6 2.7
Other services pursuant to legislation
2
        20.5 4.2
Other services related to taxation        4.3 1.5
All other services        1.4 0.5
 
1 The first set of statutory accounts have been prepared for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
2 Comprises primarily services in relation to the preparation for the Listing of the Company. 
12. EMPLOyEE BENEFIT ExPENSE
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Wages and salaries        (587) (351)
Social security costs        (57) (42)
Pensions costs         (1) (1)
Total	 employee	 benefit	 expense        (645) (394)
Average	 number	 of	 employees	       4 64,150 62,000
Included in the total employee benefit expense for 2007 is US$150 million relating to costs expensed in relation to the IPO of which 
US$145 million is included in wages and salaries and US$5 million is in social security costs. 88
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
13. FINANCE INCOME
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Interest income from loans and receivables        45 15
Bank interest income        13 9
Total	 finance	 income        58 24
14. FINANCE COST
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Interest expense on bank borrowings        (54) (13)
Interest expense on promissory notes       5 (32) (2)
Amortisation of financial instruments discount       (22) (9)
Amortisation of financial instruments discount-related parties     5 (5) (7)
Other finance costs        (27) –
Other interest expense        (9) (3)
Other interest expense-related parties       5 (7) (17)
Finance lease costs        – (2)
Unwinding of asset retirement obligation discount       27 (4) (3)
Less capitalised borrowing costs       17 2 6
Total	 finance	 cost        (158) (50)
The capitalised borrowing costs arose principally on financing directly attributable to the construction of the aluminium smelter plant in 
Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC. The average capitalisation rate was 9.0% for the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006 : 9.0%). 
15. INCOME TAxES 
Income tax expense comprises the following:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Corporate income tax – current year        (474) (250)
Corporate income tax – prior periods        (22) –
Deferred tax expense – current year        (11) (35)
Income	 tax	 expense	 for	 the	 year        (507) (285)
Taxation has been provided at current rates on the profits earned in the period. The effective tax rate is higher than the statutory rate due 
primarily to costs incurred in relation to the Listing on the London Stock Exchange which are not tax deductible and interest costs incurred in 
the UK which are not available to offset against current year profits. All taxation in the table above is overseas taxation.
The effective rate of tax, excluding the costs relating to the Listing which are non-recurring, is 34%.
Factors affecting future tax charges
Future tax charges are affected by the mix of profits in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates, and by the level of excess 
profits tax payable in Kazakhstan.
Reconciliation between the expected and the actual taxation charge is provided below.
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Profit	 before	 tax        1,321 971
Notional tax charge at UK corporation tax rate 30% (2006 : 30%)      396 291 
Items not deductible for tax purposes        62 39
Effects of different tax rates in other countries        (78) (48)
Income not chargeable for tax purposes        	 (12) (7)
Excess profits tax – current year        33 –
 – prior periods        5 –
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax loss carry forwards      – 7
Unrecognised deferred tax asset        89 –
Prior year adjustment        17 –
Other         (5) 3
Income tax expense for the year, an effective rate of 38% (2006 : 29%)     507 285
During 2007, the Group incurred non-recurring costs, which have been treated as not tax deductible, of US$38 million, a tax effect of  
US$11.3 million, as a consequence of seeking a Listing on the London Stock Exchange. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
15. INCOME TAxES CONTINUED
Deferred taxation
The tax effect of the movements in these temporary differences is detailed below and is recorded at the rate of 30% at 31 December 2007 
(2006 : 30%). 
Temporary timing differences comprise of deferred tax on provisions against receivables, employee bonuses, benefits and pensions, and 
other similar short-term deposits. 
The Group has not recorded a deferred tax liability in respect of taxable temporary differences of US$2,164 million (2006 : US$1,799 million) 
associated with investments in subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and 
does not intend to reverse them in the foreseeable future. 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the 
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
      Charged/  Translation 
      (credited) Charged/ to 
     31 December to Income (credited) presentation  31	 December 
In millions of US$     2006 Statement to Equity currency 2007
Gross	 deferred	 tax	 asset
Temporary timing differences     (62) (43) – (3) (108)
Less offsetting with deferred tax liabilities     50 46 – 4 100
Recognised	 deferred	 tax	 asset     (12) 3 – 1 (8)
US$38 million of the gross deferred tax asset is expected to reverse within 12 months.
Tax	 effect	 of	 taxable	 temporary	 differences    
Property, plant and equipment     315 48 – 18 381
Other temporary timing differences     15 6 (9) 2 14
Gross deferred tax liability     330 54 (9) 20 395
Less offsetting with deferred tax assets     (50) (46) – (4) (100)
Deferred	 tax	 liability     280 8 (9) 16 295
US$31 million of the gross deferred tax liability is expected to reverse within 12 months.
       Charged/  Translation 
       (credited) to 
      1 January  to income  presentation 31 December 
In millions of US$      2006 statement currency 2006
Tax	 effect	 of	 deductible	 temporary	 differences	 and	 tax	 loss	 carry	 forwards   (57) (3) (2) (62)
Gross	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 	 	 	 	 	 (57) (3) (2) (62)
Less offsetting with deferred tax liabilities      43 5 2 50
Recognised	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 	 	 	 	 	 (14) 2 – (12)
Tax	 effect	 of	 taxable	 temporary	 differences
Property, plant and equipment      268 34 13 315
Other temporary timing differences      10 4 1 15
Gross deferred tax liability      278 38 14 330
Less offsetting with deferred tax assets      (43) (5) (2) (50)
Recognised	 deferred	 tax	 liability	 	 	 	 	 	 235 33 12 280
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences of US$89 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007 (2006 : US$nil). It is probable that future taxable profit will not be available to utilise the benefits of these temporary 
differences. 
In the context of the Group’s current structure, tax losses and current tax assets of different Group companies may not be offset against 
current tax liabilities and taxable profits of other Group companies and, accordingly, taxes may accrue even where there is a consolidated 
tax loss. Therefore, deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when they relate to the same taxable entity.  90
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
16. EARNINgS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the Group by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The Group has no dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
The following reflects the income and adjusted share data used in the EPS computations:
       As at 31 December
In millions of US$     Note 2007 2006
Net	 profit	 attributable	 to	 equity	 shareholders	 of	 the	 Group     798 550
Exceptional items attributable to equity shareholders of the Group   9  182  6
Net profit before exceptional items        980  556
Number of shares:       pro-forma
Weighted average number of ordinary shares*     	 1,015,767,123 1,000,000,000
  
EPS	 –	 basic	 and	 diluted	 (US$)      0.79 0.55
EPS	 before	 exceptional	 items	 (US$)      0.97 0.56
*  For 2006, the EPS calculation has assumed that the ordinary shares in issue pursuant to share exchange agreements in relation to the acquisition of the Group have been in issue 
throughout the period, and is calculated after taking into account the share split which occurred on 8 November 2007.
The dividends paid in 2007 and 2006 were pre-IPO dividends amounting to US$500 million (US$0.49 per share) and US$187 million 
(US$0.19 per share) respectively. 
17. PROPERTy, PLANT AND Eq UIPMENT
Movements in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
 
     Buildings   Assets 
Year ended 31 December 2007    Freehold and mining Plant and  under 
In millions of US$    land construction equipment Vehicles  construction Total
Cost	 at	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 46 896 1,393 456 493 3,284
Additions    1 39 101 52 718 911
Transfers    – 246 443 38 (727) –
Disposals    (4) (13) (47) (6) (15) (85)
Exchange differences    2 56 88 27 27 200
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 45	 1,224	 1,978	 567	 496	 4,310
      
Accumulated	 depreciation	 at	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 – (172) (400) (160) (9) (741)
Disposals    – 3 2 8 – 13
Depreciation charge     – (57) (163) (58) – (278)
Impairment charge     – (2) (11) – (12) (25)
Exchange differences    – (11) (26) (10) – (47)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 –	 (239)	 (598)	 (220)	 (21)	 (1,078)
      
Net	 balance	 sheet	 amount	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 45	 985	 1,380	 347	 475	 3,232
Held under finance leases (refer to note 26)    – – 2 – – 2
Other property, plant and equipment pledged as security (refer to note 32) – – 13 4 – 17 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
17. PROPERTy, PLANT AND Eq UIPMENT CONTINUED
     Buildings   Assets 
Year ended 31 December 2006    Freehold and mining Plant and  under 
In millions of US$    land construction equipment Vehicles  construction Total
Cost	 at	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 42 790 1,133 394 271 2,630
Additions    4 23 54 37 445 563
Transfers    – 63 162 11 (236) –
Disposals    (3) (23) (15) (6) (1) (48)
Exchange differences    3 43 59 20 14 139
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 46 896 1,393 456 493 3,284
      
Accumulated depreciation       
At 1 January 2006    – (108) (260) (105) (3) (476)
Disposals    – 2 9 4 – 15
Depreciation charge     – (60) (134) (53) – (247)
Impairment charge     – – – – (6) (6)
Exchange differences    – (6) (15) (6) – (27)
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 – (172) (400) (160) (9) (741)
Net	 balance	 sheet	 amount	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 46 724 993 296 484 2,543
Held under finance leases (refer to note 26)    – – 7 – – 7
Other property, plant and equipment pledged as security (refer to note 32) – 13 – – – 13
Additions to assets under construction include US$2 million for the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006 : US$6 million) of capitalised 
borrowing costs.
18. gOOD w ILL AND INTANg IBLE ASSETS
In millions of US$      Note Goodwill Other Total
Cost	 at	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 – 5 5
Goodwill created on restructuring of government interest     2 384 – 384
Carrying amount at 31 December 2006       384 5 389
Cost	 at	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 384 5 389
Addition       – 1 1
Carrying	 amount	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 384	 6	 390
Goodwill arose in 2006 on the exchange by the Committee of its minority interests in various operating subsidiaries for a 24.9% interest in 
the Company (refer to note 1a).
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) identified according to country of operation and business segments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in accordance with the policy disclosed in note 1p. The recoverable amounts of 
goodwill have been assessed by reference to ‘value in use’. The discount rate used is 7.4%.
As at 31 December 2007 there is no impairment of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units as follows: 
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$       	 2007 2006
EEC        31 31
SSGPO JSC        170 170
TNC Kazchrome JSC        183 183
Total	 carrying	 amount	 of	 goodwill	       	 384 384 92
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
19. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUg H INCOME STATEMENT
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Current	 	 	 Commercial paper        170 –
Equity investments        – 21
Total	 financial	 assets        170 21
At 31 December 2007, Commercial paper of US$170 million consists of IPO proceeds invested in money market securities with a maturity of 
greater than three months and less than one year.
Equity investments at 31 December 2006 comprised 290,200 shares of ATF Bank JSC (‘ATF Bank’) and were designated as financial assets at 
fair value through the income statement. In October 2006, the Group purchased 580,400 shares of ATF Bank at a price of US$59.48 (the 
‘purchase price’) per share for US$35 million to invest surplus funds and gain income from favourable movement of share prices. In 
accordance with the verbal agreement between the Group and the shareholders of ATF Bank (the ‘Seller’), should share market price fall 
below the purchase price, the Seller is obliged to purchase back all the shares from the Group at purchase price; should the share market 
price exceed the purchase price, the Group is obliged to sell 50% of the shares back to the Seller at the purchase price, the other 50% of the 
shares to be managed by the Group at its own discretion.
As, according to the verbal agreement, 50% of the shares were to be repurchased by the Seller, at purchase price, regardless of market price 
movement, the Group treated the amount of US$17 million, a carrying amount of 50% of the shares at 31 December 2006, as receivable 
secured by the shares and recorded at amortised cost (refer to note 20).
The remaining 50% of the shares were treated as equity investments at fair value through the income statement. The fair value of the ATF 
Bank shares was based on their current bid prices in an active market. At 31 December 2006 the shares had a fair value of US$73.62 per 
share. Accordingly, the Group recognised a fair value gain of US$3 million for the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006 : US$4 million gain). 
The Group sold its 50% of the shares for US$24 million during May 2007. 
20. LOANS RECEIVABLE
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Non-current	 	 	 Loans receivable from related parties       5 7 21
        7 21
Current
Loans receivable from related parties       5 26 208
Other loans receivable        2 32
        28 240
Total	 loans	 receivable        35 261
Other loans receivable at 31 December 2006 include 290,200 shares of ATF Bank JSC (‘ATF Bank’). The shares were sold in May 2007. Refer 
to note 19. 
The Group’s loans mature as follows: 
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        2007 2006
Less than 1 year        28 240
Between 1 and 2 years        4 14
Between 2 and 5 years        3 7
Total	 loans	 receivable        35 261
Eurasian Financial Industrial Company jSC
As at 31 December 2007, all amounts due from Eurasian Financial Industrial Company JSC, equalling US$19 million, have been reassigned to 
ENRC NV as part of the Shareholders’ Settlement Agreement. 
International Mineral Resources Ag
During 2006, US$21 million was loaned to International Mineral Resources AG. Interest was charged on the loan at six months LIBOR plus 
1.0%. As at 31 December 2007, this facility has been settled fully.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
20. LOANS RECEIVABLE CONTINUED
IMR Marketing Ag 
During 2006, the Group entered into two loan agreements with IMR Marketing AG for the amount of US$8 million. An additional loan 
agreement was made in 2007 for the amount of US$6 million. Interest was charged on the loan at three months LIBOR plus 1.5%. As of 
31 December 2007, the amount receivable by the Group equalled US$14 million.
Promyshlennoye Zhilishnoye Stroitelstvo LLP (‘PZS’) 
During 2006, the Group entered into three agreements with PZS under which the Group agreed to provide a total of US$20 million without 
collateral as interest-free financial support. During 2007 two loans were settled. As at 31 December 2007, the amount receivable equalled 
US$3 million (2006 : US$14 million).
Sary-Arka SpetsKoks LLP 
To purchase production equipment, Sary-Arka SpetsKoks LLP received 19 loans amounting to US$11 million, for a period of five years at the 
contractual annual rate of 12%. The effective interest rate for this loan was 12% as at 31 December 2006. Pursuant to the Shareholders’ 
Settlement Agreement all outstanding amounts have been settled in full to the Group as at 31 December 2007. 
CIM global Investments NV 
During 2006, a US$16 million credit facility was made available to CIM Global Investments NV. CIM Global Investments NV is controlled  
and beneficially owned by the Founder Shareholders. Interest is charged on the credit facility at a rate of three months LIBOR plus 2%.  
As at 31 December 2007, this facility had been settled. 
ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV 
Loan amounts outstanding with ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV totalled US$115 million at the end of 2006. Interest was charged at LIBOR plus 
1.0%. The loan was settled in full during 2007. 
The fair value of loans and receivables equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The fair values of current 
and non-current loans and receivables are determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
The Group’s loans receivable are denominated in currencies as follows:
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        2007 2006
US dollars        31 189
Kazakhstani tenge        4 72
Total	 loans	 receivable	        35 261
21. OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services      208 33
Long-term deposits and restricted cash held by related parties     5 5 6
Prepayment for Serov acquisition       5 100 –
Other advances and non-current assets        8 2
Other advances and non-current assets – related parties       1 2
Total	 other	 non-current	 assets        322 43
Long-term deposits and restricted cash mainly represent bank guarantee deposits in the amount of US$3 million at 31 December 2007 
(2006 : US$3 million) with maturity dates on 28 August 2020 and 31 March 2021, securing the mortgage liabilities of certain Group 
employees. The bank guarantee deposits are interest free and carried at amortised cost. In addition, the balance of restricted cash includes 
bank deposits for special funds for the retirement of assets in accordance with the requirements of contracts on subsurface use (refer to 
note 27). The fair value of restricted cash is not significantly different from its carrying value. 
Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services are for machinery and equipment, in particular vehicles and power 
generating units required by the plants. US$8 million of the balance relates to letters of credit with Eurasian Bank JSC pertaining to 
purchases of property, plant and equipment, refer to note 5 (2006 : US$ nil).
In July 2007, the Group transferred US$100 million to a subsidiary of International Mineral Resources BV, a company controlled by the 
Founder Shareholders, as a partial prepayment for the Group’s acquisition (refer to note 36) of the Serov Group. The Serov Group’s principal 
activity comprises the mining of chrome ore, processing and sale of ferroalloys.  94
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
22. INVENTORIES
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Finished goods        166 117
Raw materials        149 133
Consumable stores        88 81
Work in progress        40 34
Other inventory        1 –
        444 365
Less provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventory       (6) (4)
Total	 inventories	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 438	 361
There are no inventories pledged as security as at 31 December 2007 and 2006. 
23. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Trade receivables        412 313
Trade receivables from related parties       5 41 21
Term deposits        65 –
Term deposits with related parties       5 138 38
VAT recoverable        135 117
Advances to suppliers        70 25
Prepayments        58 17
Restricted cash       32 34 –
Income tax prepayment        13 28
Advances to related parties       5 11 34
Prepayments to related parties       5 9 11
Letters of credit from related parties       5 8 1
Other receivables        17 19
Other amounts due from related parties       5 38 21
        1,049 645
Less provision for impairment of trade and other receivables      (4) (8)
Total	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,045	 637
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates the carrying value.
As at 31 December 2007, trade and other receivables of US$99 million (2006 : US$88 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate 
to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as 
follows: 
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Less than 3 months        91 83
Between 3 to 6 months         2 2
Between 6 to 12 months         6 3
Total	 trade	 receivables        99 88
The Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in currencies as follows:
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$         2007 2006
US dollars        618 236
Kazakhstani tenge        326 326
Russian roubles        58 52
British pounds       	 26 1
European euros        17 16
Swiss francs        – 6
Total	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,045	 637 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
24. CASH AND CASH Eq UIVALENTS
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Cash at bank and in hand         529 137
Short-term deposits        2,019 199
Total	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,548	 336
Of the remaining IPO proceeds amounting to US$2,461 million as at 31 December, US$2,291 million is included in cash and cash 
equivalents and US$170 million is included in ‘commercial paper’ in financial assets at fair value through income statement  
(refer to note 19).
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies as follows:
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        	 2007 2006
US dollars        1,982 274
European euros        299 5
British pounds        162 1
Kazakhstani tenge        89 46
Russian roubles        16 9
Swiss francs        – 1
Total	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,548	 336
25. SHARE CAPITAL
      Number  Share 
      (allotted and Share capital premium
     called up) £000 US$000 US$000
As	 at	 8	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 50,000 13
Issuance of ordinary shares of US$10 each     20,000,000 – 200,000 –
Reverse share split of 50,000 ordinary shares to one special 
 share of £50,000 (one-quarter paid)     (49,999) – – –
    
As	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 20,000,001 13 200,000 –
Share split     980,000,000 – – –
Redemption of special share     (1) (13) – –
Issuance of shares on IPO     287,750,000 – 57,550 2,999,023
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 1,287,750,000	 –	 257,550	 2,999,023
The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 8 December 2006 as a public limited company with a share capital 
of £50,000 divided into two ordinary shares of £1 each and 49,998 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of £1 each. The share 
capital was one-quarter paid. On 19 December 2006, the Board resolved to effect the transfer of the two ordinary shares and 49,998 
redeemable preference shares to the Committee. On the same day the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from £50,000 
to £50,000 and US$200,000,000 by the creation and issuance of 20,000,000 new ordinary shares of US$10 each as part of the acquisition 
of ENRC NV. refer to note 1a. In addition, the 49,998 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of £1 each held by the Committee, were 
re-designated as ordinary shares of £1 each, the resulting 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each were consolidated into one ordinary share of 
£50,000 and then the ordinary share was re-designated as a special share. 
Share split 
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 8 November 2007, each of the issued, and each of the authorised but unissued, 
ordinary shares of US$10.00 par value each in the capital of the Company was subdivided into 50 ordinary shares of US$0.20 par value 
each. On the same day, the total authorised number of shares was increased to 2,000,000,000.
As at 31 December 2007, the total authorised number of shares is 2,000,000,000.
Issuance of shares on IPO
On 12 December 2007, the Company successfully completed its IPO and Listed on the London Stock Exchange. A total number of 
277,750,000 shares with a par value of US$0.20 each were issued at £5.40 for total proceeds of £1.5 billion. Costs related to the issuance  
of new shares and attributable IPO costs taken against share premium amounted to US$96 million.
A further 10,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.20 each were awarded to Directors, management, senior employees and 
professional advisers as part of the IPO Plan. The share awards are subject to a restriction period of one year from the date of the IPO, during 
which any dealings are prohibited. Refer to note 5.
Redemption of special share
Pursuant to the Company’s articles of association, the one special share of nominal value of £50,000 held by the Committee was cancelled 
upon admission of the Company’s shares to the London Stock Exchange. As the share was only one-quarter paid up, £12,500 was paid to the 
Committee upon cancellation.  96
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
26. BORROw INgS
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Non-current
Bank borrowings        1,030 –
Bank borrowings from related parties       5 – 12
Bonds         32 31
Term loans        2 –
Term loans from related parties       5 – 25
Promissory notes issued to related parties        5 – 800
Preference shares        – 2
Finance lease liabilities       17 1 1
Finance lease liabilities with related parties       5, 17 – 5
        1,065 876
Current	 	 	 Bank borrowings        357 162
Bank borrowings from related parties       5 – 1
Term loans        – 31
Term loans from related parties       5 – 213
Bonds        1 –
Promissory notes issued to related parties        5 – 200
Finance lease liabilities with related parties       5, 17 1 1
        359 608
Total	 borrowings        1,424 1,484
Total borrowings include secured liabilities (bank and collateralised borrowings) of US$4 million at 31 December 2007  
(2006 : US$83 million). 
The Group’s borrowings mature as follows:
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Less than 1 year        359 608
Between 2 and 5 years       	 1,033 840
After 5 years        32 36
Total	 borrowings        1,424 1,484
The Group’s borrowings are denominated in currencies as follows:
        As at 31 December 
In millions of US$         2007 2006
US dollars        1,374	 1,354
European euros        – 6
Kazakhstani tenge        50 124
Total	 borrowings       	 1,424 1,484
The effective interest rates at balance sheet date were as follows: 
 Floating interest rates Fixed interest rates
In % p.a. KZT US$ EUR KZT US$ EUR
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 Bank loans – LIBOR plus 1.35% – 11.0%–14.0% – –
Term loans  – – – 13.7% – –
Finance lease liabilities  – – – 13.9% – –
Bonds 9.5%–9.8% – – – – –
As	 at	 31	 December	 2006
Bank loans – LIBOR plus 1.5%  – 11.0%–13.0% – – 
  13.7%–14.9%    
Term loans  – – – 13.3% 5.0%–16.8% 12.6%
Promissory notes issued  – LIBOR plus 2.0% – – – –
Finance lease liabilities  – – – – – 10.0%
Bonds 9.7% – – – – – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
97
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
26. BORROw INgS CONTINUED
The carrying values and fair values are as follows:
 Carrying values Fair values
In millions of US$     Note	 2007 2006 2007 2006
Bank borrowings     	 1,387 162 1,389 162
Bank borrowings from related parties     5 – 13 – 13
Bonds      33 31 33 30
Term loans      2 31 2 31
Term loans from related parties      – 238 – 244
Promissory note issued to related parties     5 – 751 – 751
Promissory note issued       – 249 – 249
Preference shares      – 2 – 2
Finance lease liabilities      1 1 1 –
Finance lease liabilities with related parties      5 1 6 1 2
Total	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 1,424	 1,484	 1,426	 1,484
The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The fair values of current 
and non-current borrowings are determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates 5.0%–14.4% prevailing as at 31 December 
2007 (2006 : 5.0%–16.1%). 
Bank borrowings from related parties
Turan Alem Bank
During 2007 Company Zhol zhondeushi LLP, SSGPO JSC (‘SSGPO’), TNC Kazchrome JSC (‘Kazchrome’) signed various short-term loan 
agreements with Turan Alem Bank Kazakhstan and Bank Centre Credit Kazakhstan for a total of US$13 million, denominated in Kazakhstani 
tenge. The majority of the loans bore annual interest at the rate of 13.0% on inception.
Bonds
In April 2006, a subsidiary of the Group issued US$31 million 8.0% non-convertible bonds, due on 5 April 2013, which are listed on the 
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange. Interest is payable semi-annually on 5 April and 5 October each year. From 5 October 2006, the coupon has 
changed to a floating rate equal to the official inflation rate plus 1.0% mark-up with lower and upper limits being fixed at 2.0% and 10.0% 
per annum. At 31 December 2007 the coupon rate was 9.5%–9.8% per annum (2006 : 9.7% per annum).
Structured Trade Finance Facility
On 15 December 2006, ENRC Marketing AG entered into a US$1,000 million structured trade finance facility (the ‘Facility’). By Supplemental 
Agreement dated 12 April 2007, the Facility was increased to US$1,480 million. As at 31 December 2007, US$1,374 million of the Facility 
was drawn down (2006 : US$nil). 
The Facility is secured principally by grants of security over certain sales contracts entered into by ENRC Marketing AG and third party buyers 
(and all receivables thereunder). The associated accounts receivable balance at 31 December 2007 was US$261 million. All monies payable 
by the end purchasers under the sales contracts are required to be paid into bank accounts which are also used to secure the Facility. 
Withdrawals from these bank accounts are subject to restrictions imposed under the terms of the Facility Agreement. The Group agreed to 
certain restrictive covenants in respect of Kazchrome, as guarantor of the loan, which prohibit Kazchrome from having total debt of greater 
than US$100 million outstanding at any time during the duration of the Facility. In addition, the guarantee provides for other restrictions on 
Kazchrome including on payment of dividends, giving guarantees or indemnities, creating security interests or changing its business.
The Facility has a term of five years. Following a grace period of 12 months, the Facility will be repaid in 48 equal and consecutive monthly 
instalments beginning in January 2008.
The interest rate applicable to the loan is one month LIBOR plus 1.35% per annum. 98
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
27. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIg ATIONS
The Group has a legal obligation to landfill site restoration during the mining operations and decommissioning of its mining property after its 
expected closure. The timing of decommissioning activity is subject to reassessment at the same time as the revision of the Group’s proved 
and probable reserves. 
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$        	 2007 2006
Current portion of provisions for asset retirement obligations       – 1
Non-current portion of provisions for asset retirement obligations       86 43
Total	 provisions	 for	 asset	 retirement	 obligations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 86	 44
Movements in asset retirement obligations are as follows:
        Landfill 
       Site decommis- 
In millions of US$       Note restoration sioning Total
At	 1	 January	 2006       19 15 34
 Capitalisation of additional closure costs        3 2 5
 Unwinding of discount       14 2 1 3
 Exchange differences on currency translation       1 1 2
At	 31	 December	 2006       25 19 44
    
At	 1	 January	 2007       25 19 44
 Capitalisation of additional closure costs        16 22 38
 Unwinding of discount       14 2 2 4
 Production costs       1 – 1
 Utilised during the year       (1) – (1)
At	 31	 December	 2007       43	 43	 86
In accordance with the Contracts on Subsurface Use, the Group makes annual obligatory contributions to form a deposit fund for the closure 
costs which will take effect upon exhaustion of the mineral deposits between 2045 and 2074 (refer to note 21).
The amount of the provision for asset retirement obligations is determined using the nominal prices effective at the reporting dates by 
applying the forecasted rate of inflation for the expected period of the life of the mines. Uncertainties in estimating these costs include 
potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the level of discount and inflation rates.
Principal assumptions made in calculations of asset retirement obligations are presented below: 
        As at 31 December
        2007 2006
Discount rate       	 7.4% 8.0%
Inflation rate        8.3% 7.4%
28. EMPLOyEE BENEFIT OBLIg ATIONS
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation at beginning of the year    	 48 32
Interest cost        1 2
Benefits paid        (1) (1)
Current service cost        6 1
Actuarial (gains)/losses        (2) 12
Currency translation differences        – 2
Present	 value	 of	 unfunded	 defined	 benefit	 obligation	 at	 end	 of	 the	 year    	 52 48
  
Net	 liability        52 48
The present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2005 and 2004 was US$32 million and US$29 million 
respectively. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
28. EMPLOyEE BENEFIT OBLIg ATIONS CONTINUED
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Interest cost         1 2
Current service cost        6 1
Actuarial (gains)/losses         (2) 12
Expense	 recognised	 in	 income	 statement         5 15
For the year ended 31 December 2007, actuarial losses and current service costs are included in the income statement as part of cost of 
sales in the amount of US$2 million (2006 : US$10 million), part of selling, general and administration expense in the amount of 
US$2 million (2006 : US$2 million) and part of other expenses and capitalised costs in the amount of nil (2006 : US$1 million).
 
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Cumulative	 amount	 of	 actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement    15 17
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the income statement for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 2004 
was US$5 million and US$5 million respectively.
Principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were as follows:
       Years ended 31 December
In % p.a.      2007 2006
Discount rate at 31 December      5.0%–8.0% 5.0%
Future salary increases      7.0%–13.0% 5.5%–10.0%
Average labour turnover rate of production personnel     6.0%–21.0% 4.1%–18.5%
Average labour turnover rate of administrative personnel     1.0%–12.0% 1.9%–14.8%
Assumptions regarding future mortality are based upon advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in Kazakhstan.
The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date are as follows:
 
        As at 31 December
        2007 2006
Male       	 11 11
Female        15 15
The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, is as follows:
 
        As at 31 December
        2007 2006
Male        12 12
Female        16 16
29. TRADE AND OTHER PAyABLES 
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        Note 2007	 2006
Trade payables        107 90
Accruals relating to employee entitlements        106 51
Advances received from customers        91 28
Derivative financial instruments       33 19 –
Payable to related parties        5 6 65
Distributions payable       5 4 133
Accruals and deferred income        3 3
Other payables        34 23
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 370	 393 100
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
30. OTHER TAxES PAyABLE
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        	 2007 2006
Withholding taxes        42 39
Property and other taxes         15 9
VAT payable         26 11
Social taxes        10 3
Total	 other	 taxes	 payable	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 93	 62
31. CASH g ENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Profit	 after	 tax        814 686
   
Adjustment	 for   
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      17 278 247
Loss from disposal of property, plant and equipment      10 1 9
Impairment of property, plant and equipment       17 25 6
Provisions for impairment on inventory        1 –
Actuarial movements in employee benefit obligations       5 15
Income tax expense        507 285
Finance costs (net)        100 26
Fair value losses on derivative financial assets        46 –
   
Changes	 in	 operating	 working	 capital:   
Trade and other receivables        (241) (147)
Employee related liabilities        46 –
Inventories        (64) –
Other taxes payable         25 33
Trade and other payables       	 104 (107)
   
Cash	 flows	 from	 operating	 activities       	 1,647 1,053
Interest paid       	 (155) (45)
Interest received        56 8
Income tax paid        (469) (277)
Net	 cash	 generated	 from	 operating	 activities	       1,079 739
Non-cash transactions
Investing and financing transactions that did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents were excluded from the cash flow statement. 
Non-cash transactions consisted of:
The acquisition of property, plant and equipment in exchange for inventory, and heat and power engineering services of US$3 million for 
the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006 : nil).
As described in note 1a, the Group acquired minority interest shareholdings in its subsidiaries from the Kazakhstani Government in 
exchange for 24.9% of shares in the Company. The value attributed to the Plc shares exchanged amounted to US$1,094 million.
In June 2007, the Group undertook a series of transactions to consolidate a number of assets and liabilities outstanding with various 
companies under the control of the Founder Shareholders. A total amount of borrowings from related parties of US$391 million and 
receivables from those parties of US$200 million were offset, with the balance of US$191 million settled in cash. Refer to Shareholders’ 
Settlement Agreement in note 5.
32. CONTINg ENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND OPERATINg RISKS 
Legal proceedings 
From time to time and in the normal course of business, claims against the Group are received, including those arising from tax inquiries.  
On the basis of management estimates and both internal and external professional advice, it is not anticipated that any material losses will 
be incurred in respect of claims in excess of provisions that have been made in these financial statements. 
Tax legislation 
Kazakhstani tax legislation and practice are in a state of continuous development and, therefore, are subject to varying interpretations and 
frequent changes which may be applied retroactively. The interpretation of tax, transfer pricing and excess profit tax legislation by the 
Kazakhstani tax authorities as applied to the transactions and activities of the Group may not coincide with that of management. As a result, 
tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group may be assessed additional taxes, penalties and fines. Tax periods remain open  
to review by the Kazakhstani tax authorities for five years. 
>
>
> FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
101
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
32. CONTINg ENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND OPERATINg RISKS CONTINUED
As stated above, there is a risk that the Kazakhstani tax authorities may challenge the methods applied to transfer pricing and excess profits 
tax. An audit of the tax affairs of the Group for the three years ended 31 December 2006 was commenced in February 2008 by the 
Kazakhstani tax authorities. Whilst any challenge may result in material claims being made against the Group, management believes that, 
based on recent clarifications obtained from the relevant authorities, they would be successful in defending any such challenge. 
Accordingly, at 31 December 2007, no provision for potential additional tax liabilities had been recorded (2006 : nil).
Capital expenditure commitments 
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$         2007 2006
Property, plant and equipment       	 497 343
Intangible assets        – 5
Total	 capital	 expenditure	 commitments        497 348
Refer to note 5 for the details of the committed capital expenditure investment programme at EEC.
g uarantees 
Guarantees are irrevocable assurances that the Group will make payments in the event that another party cannot meet its obligations. The 
Group has guaranteed the following obligations:
 
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$         2007 2006
SSGPO        22 35
Kazchrome        12 14
EEC        1 1
Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC        – 1
Remput LLP        – 24
Company Zhol zhondeushi LLP        – 24
Other        – 4
Total	 guarantees        35 103
Assets pledged and restricted
The Group has the following assets pledged as collateral:
  
       As at 31 December
 2007 2006
     Asset	 Related	 Asset Related 
In millions of US$     Note 	 pledged	 liability	 pledged liability
Property, plant and equipment     17 17	 –  13 1
Long-term deposits and restricted cash – related party   5, 21 5	 –  6 –
Restricted cash    23 34	 	 1,374  – –
Accounts receivable    23, 26 261	 }
	 	  
Total	 assets	 pledged	 and	 restricted     317	 1,374  19 1
Operating leases
   As at 31 December
 2007 2006
  Due	 Due    Due Due  
 Due	 less	 	 between	 2	 after   Due less between 2 after  
In millions of US$ than 1	 year	 	 and	 5	 years	 5 	 years	 Tota l   than 1 year and 5 years 5 years Total 
Minimum lease payments  15	 24	 87	 126  11 18 20 49
Rental expenses relating to the operating leases of mining facilities and administrative facilities are recognised in ‘cost of sales’ and  
‘selling, general and administrative expenses’, respectively. 102
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
32. CONTINg ENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND OPERATINg RISKS CONTINUED
Insurance policies 
The Kazakhstan entities within the Group purchased a primary insurance programme which is placed with a local insurance company in 
Kazakhstan, as required by Kazakhstani law. ENRC do not utilise the services of an insurance broker. Facultative reinsurance cover is then 
placed into the European insurance market via Marsh Insurance Brokers in Kazakhstan. 
The primary insurance programme covers such risks including:
property damage, business interruption and machinery breakdown;
medical expenses;
employers’ liability; and
various logistics cover.
Supply commitments 
ENRC Marketing AG has a contract with UC RUSAL to supply a minimum 1 million tonnes of alumina per annum, within 2.0%, plus an option 
to supply an additional 200 thousand tonnes. The contract expires on 31 December 2016. Pricing is determined by a formula related to the 
LME aluminium price.
ENRC Marketing AG entered into a 10 year contract from 1 April 2007 to supply up to 15 million tonnes of iron ore per annum to MMK in 
Russia. The contract selling price will be determined by a formula based on published price indices for iron ore concentrates and pellets. 
In August 2007, ENRC Marketing AG entered into a 10 year contract commencing 1 January 2008 to sell 100% of aluminium produced by 
Kazchrome to Glencore. Sales of primary aluminium will be made by reference to LME aluminium spot prices less sales commission.
Environmental matters 
The enforcement of environmental regulation is evolving and the enforcement posture of Kazakhstan Government authorities is continually 
being reconsidered in Kazakhstan. The Group periodically evaluates its obligations under environmental regulations. As obligations are 
determined, they are recognised immediately. Potential liabilities, which might arise as a result of changes in existing regulations, civil 
litigation or legislation, cannot be estimated but could be material. In the current enforcement climate under existing legislation, 
management believes that there are no significant liabilities for environmental damage.
33. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
All derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments. The amounts disclosed in the table are the carrying balances of the 
liabilities and assets as at balance sheet date.
        As	 at	 31	 December	 2007
In millions of US$        Note Assets	 Liabilities
Current portion:  
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedge      29 –	 19
  
Non-current portion:  
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedge       –	 51
        –	 70
In April 2007, Kazchrome entered into forward foreign exchange contracts with Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited (‘Morgan 
Stanley’) to hedge part of its foreign currency risk. Under the terms of the contract, Kazchrome was required to pay Morgan Stanley amounts 
of US$33 million on a monthly basis up to December 2007. Morgan Stanley was required to pay Kazchrome on a monthly basis, Kazakhstani 
tenge at fixed forward rates up to December 2007. As of 31 December 2007, the contract was fully settled.
In June 2007, SSGPO JSC (‘SSGPO’) and Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC (‘AoK’) entered into forward foreign exchange contracts with Deutsche 
Bank AG London (‘Deutsche Bank’) to hedge part of their foreign currency risks. Under the terms of the contracts, SSGPO and AoK are 
required to pay Deutsche Bank amounts of US$25 million and US$15 million, respectively, on a monthly basis up to December 2009. 
Deutsche Bank is required to pay SSGPO and AoK on a monthly basis, Kazakhstani tenge at fixed forward rates up to December 2009. The 
average forward rate on these contracts is 120.88 KZT/US$.
In September 2007, these forward foreign exchange contracts were formally designated as hedge instruments to hedge the foreign exchange 
currency risk arising from related highly probable forecast transactions expected to occur on a monthly basis up to December 2009.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more 
than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedge item is less than 12 months.
The current portion of the hedge is included in trade and other payables (refer to note 29). The non-current portion of the hedge is included 
in other non-current liabilities. 
>
>
>
> FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
103
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
33. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The amount of net unrealised loss on the hedges taken to equity is US$17 million as of 31 December 2007. The net unrealised loss taken to 
equity on the forward foreign exchange contracts is recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the actual 
cash flows occur and the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. The total amount of realised gain on cash flow hedges 
recognised in the income statement is US$4 million for the year ended 31 December 2007. This is included in cost of sales (refer to note 7).
There were no ineffective cash flow hedges. 
The Group had no forward foreign exchange contracts as of 31 December 2006.
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAg EMENT
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to partially hedge foreign exchange exposure. 
Financial risk management is the responsibility of the treasury function which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close 
cooperation with the Group’s operating units. The Treasury Policy outlines principles for overall risk management, as well as written  
policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and  
non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Credit risk 
The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets. The Group has credit insurance for the majority of its sales and credit 
limits are set by the credit insurance company for each customer. For those sales where credit insurance is not available, the Group operates 
a policy of ‘cash on delivery’ and ‘letters of credit’. The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts in order to minimise their exposure. 
At the balance sheet date, there was significant concentration of credit risk principally in respect of cash and deposits held by Eurasian Bank 
JSC, a related party. Of the total amount (US$235 million) held by Eurasian Bank, the Group is committed to holding US$123 million as part 
of the transitional arrangement until October 2008. Management has implemented a policy of diversifying its credit risk exposure by 
establishing relationships with a number of international and domestic banks in Kazakhstan. 
The Group also generates a significant portion of its revenue from key customers and in particular UC RUSAL and MMK (refer to note 32).
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk related to the uncollateralised balances to be as follows: 
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Cash and cash equivalents       24 2,548 336
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances)     23 880 529
Long-term deposits and restricted cash held by related parties     21 5 6
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement     19 170 21
Loans receivable       20 35 261
Foreign currency risk 
The production costs are denominated in Kazakhstani tenge (KZT) while sales are denominated in US dollars (US$). The Group is therefore 
exposed to the risk that movements in exchange rates will affect both its net income and cash flows. 
The Group’s foreign currency exposure arises from: 
highly probable forecast transactions (sales/purchases) denominated in foreign currencies; and 
monetary items (mainly intercompany receivables, payables and borrowings) denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group is mainly exposed to KZT/US$ exchange rate risks. The Board of Directors sets limits on the amount of hedging to limit the level of 
exposure by currency and in total. Compliance with limits is monitored monthly. The Group’s policy is to hedge a portion of foreign exchange 
risk associated with highly probable forecast transactions and monetary items denominated in foreign currencies. The Group uses forward 
contracts to hedge foreign forward contracts to hedge part of the aforementioned exchange rate risk. Management estimates that those 
contracts effectively provide for an average rate of US$1/KZT 120 over the next two years and represents approximately 25% of the Group’s 
Kazakhstani tenge cost base. Any remaining amount remains unhedged. 
The forward exchange contracts entered into during 2007 were formally designated as hedges at 18 September 2007 and accordingly hedge 
accounting has been applied. 
>
> 104
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAg EMENT CONTINUED
The table below summarises the foreign currency exposure on the net monetary position of each Group entity against its respective 
functional currency, expressed in the Group’s presentation currency.
 
In millions of US$     KZT US$ CHF EUR GBP RUB
At	 31	 December	 2007      
Kazakhstan entities (KZT)    n/a (233) – 2 – 1
Marketing entities (US$)    – n/a – 295 159 50
Swiss entities (CHF)    – – n/a – – –
Netherlands entities (EUR)    – – – n/a – –
UK Management entities (GBP)    – 11 – 1 n/a –
	 	 	 	 –	 (222)	 –	 298	 159	 51
      
At	 31	 December	 2006      
Kazakhstan entities (KZT)    n/a 484 – (9) – 2
Marketing entities (US$)    – n/a (93) 18 4 52
Swiss entities (CHF)    1 (38) n/a – – –
Netherlands entities (EUR)    – 30 – n/a – –
UK Management entities (GBP)    – 18 – – n/a –
	 	 	 	 1 494 (93) 9 4 54
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held 
constant, of the Group’s profit before tax.
 
In millions of US$     KZT US$ CHF EUR GBP RUB
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 Total in the consolidated financial statements    – (222) – 298 159 51
Shift in the US exchange rate     5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0%
Increase in profit due to depreciation of US rate   – n/a – 14.91 7.97 2.55
Increase in profit due to appreciation of US rate   – n/a – (14.91) (7.97) (2.55)
      
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 Total in the consolidated financial statements    1 494 (93) 9 4 54
Shift in the US exchange rate    5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0%
Increase in profit due to depreciation of US rate   0.05 n/a (4.65) 0.45 0.20 2.70
Increase in profit due to appreciation of US rate   (0.05) n/a 4.65 (0.45) (0.20) (2.70)
* The above tables exclude the impact of forward foreign exchange contracts which have been hedged. 
Commodity price risk 
The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices. The principal exposures are to the price of chrome ore, high, medium 
and low carbon ferroalloys, ferrosilicon manganese, iron ore and primary aluminium from which the price of alumina is derived. Prices of the 
aforementioned commodities are generally quoted in US dollars. Of the aforementioned products, only primary aluminium is determined by 
reference to a publicly traded price. 
ENRC does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the price of its products. 
Interest rate risk
The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates impact 
primarily deposits, loans and borrowings by changing their future cash flows (variable rate). Management does not have a formal policy of 
determining how much of the Group’s exposure should be at fixed or variable rate and the Group does not use hedging instruments to 
minimise its exposure. However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings management uses its judgement to determine whether it 
believes that a fixed or variable rate would be more favourable for the Group over the expected period until maturity. The Group’s significant 
interest bearing assets and liabilities are disclosed in notes 20, 21, 23, 24 and 26. 
The Group analyses its sensitivity to interest rates by movements of 1.0% and the pre-tax impact on the profit or loss for the year ended  
31 December 2007 is approximately US$15 million (2006 : US$6 million). 
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
As at 31 December 2007, following the receipt of the proceeds from the IPO, the Group had a strong balance sheet and a conservative capital 
structure. Going forward, the Group intends to maintain a capital structure in line with industry’s norms and practices which will be achieved 
over a period of time, taking into account investment opportunities and availability of debt finance. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
105
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAg EMENT CONTINUED
The Group considers the following balances as a part of its capital management. 
        As at 31 December
In millions of US$        Note 2007 2006
Borrowings       26 1,424 1,484
Share capital        25 3,257 200
Reserves         2,457 2,011
        7,138	 3,695
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to manage its debt level.
Liquidity risk 
Prudent liquidity risk management means maintaining sufficient cash to finance the ongoing operating and investing activities of the Group.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had drawn down it credit facilities of US$1,374 million (2006 : US$1,186 million). Refer to note 26.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial assets and liabilities which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groups 
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant. 
	 	 	 	 	 As	 at	 31	 December	 2007
      Less	 than	 	 Between 	 1	 Between 	 2	 In millions of US$     	 1 	 year	 and 	 2	 years	 and 	 5	 years	 After 	 5	 years
Borrowings      (359)	 (346)	 (689)	 (32)
Trade and other payables      (370)	 –	 –	 –
Cash and cash equivalents      2,548 – – –
Loans receivable      28	 4	 3	 –
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement    170	 –	 –	 –
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances)    880	 –	 –	 –
Net	 position      2,897 (342)	 (686)	 (32)
     As at 31 December 2006
      Less than Between 1 Between 2 
In millions of US$       1 year and 2 years and 5 years After 5 years
Borrowings      (610) (17) (429) (432)
Trade and other payables      (393) – – –
Cash and cash equivalents      336 – – –
Loans receivable      240 5 10 6
Financial assets at fair value through income statement     21 – – –
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances)    529 – – –
Net	 position       123 (12) (419) (426)
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groups 
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows, translated at year end exchange rates.
 
        As at 31 December 2007
        Less than  Between 1 
In millions of US$        1 year and 2 years
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedge  
Outflow        (480) (480)
Inflow        481 483
The Group had no forward foreign exchange contracts as of 31 December 2006. 106
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
35. RECONCILIATION OF NON-g AAP MEASURES
        Years ended 31 December
In millions of US$       Note 2007 2006
Profit	 for	 the	 period        814 686
Add:	   
Depreciation and amortisation   
 Cost of sales       7 271 241
 Selling, general and administrative expenses       9 32 12
Finance costs       14 158 50
Income tax expense       15 507 285
Less:   
Finance income       13 (58) (24)
EBITDA	 after	 exceptional	 items        1,724 1,250
Exceptional items       9 182 6
EBITDA	 before	 exceptional	 items        1,906 1,256
EBITDA	 before	 exceptional	 items        1,906 1,256
Divide	 by:   
Revenue       6 4,106 3,256
EBITDA	 before	 exceptional	 items	 margin        46% 39%
Profit	 for	 the	 period        814 686
Add:	 Finance costs       14 158 50
Income tax expense       15 507 285
Exceptional items       9 182 6
Less:	   
Finance income       13 (58) (24)
EBIT	 before	 exceptional	 items        1,603 1,003
Divide	 by:   
Capital	 employed	 weighted	 average*   
 Borrowings        1,393 862
 Equity including minority interest and excluding IPO proceeds      2,614 2,310
Return	 on	 capital	 employed        40% 32%
* The capital employed used in this calculation is a three point average based on the opening and closing balance sheet for each year plus the half-year interim balance sheets. 
Half-year interim balance sheets and the closing balance sheet for 2005 used in this calculation are as published in the Prospectus.
36. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 
Acquisition of the Serov group 
In July 2007, ENRC transferred US$100 million to a subsidiary of International Mineral Resources BV (IMR), a company controlled by the 
Founder Shareholders, as a partial prepayment for ENRC’s intended acquisition of the Serov Group (‘Serov’) and certain related entities. 
Serov’s principal activity comprises the mining of chrome ore, processing and sale of ferroalloys in eastern Russia. ENRC completed its due 
diligence and shareholder approval of the transaction was granted prior to the Listing of ENRC on 12 December 2007.
On 3 April 2008, US$110 million was paid to satisfy the balance of the consideration payable in respect of the Group’s acquisition of a 
controlling interest in Serov.
Fulfilment of obligation related to AoK
On 25 April 2003, ENRC signed an agreement with the State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan (the ‘Committee’) for the purchase of 31.8% of the issued share capital of Aluminium of Kazakhstan (AoK) and paid the full 
purchase price. The transfer of legal title to the shares was subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions, the primary one being the first 
stage of commissioning by 31 December 2007 of an aluminium smelter in Kazakhstan with a production capacity of at least 60,000 tonnes 
per annum. This milestone was achieved in December, with an opening ceremony on 12 December 2007 attended by the President of 
Kazakhstan, to mark the occasion. On 29 January 2008 a deed of fulfilment of obligations by ENRC and transfer of title of the shares in AoK 
to ENRC was duly exercised by the Committee. 
Long term incentive plan
The Company has adopted a long term incentive plan for Executive Directors, management and senior employees providing awards. The total 
number of share awards granted pursuant to this long term incentive plan, in conjunction with all other employee share plans operated by 
the Group, cannot exceed 10.0% of the issued share capital of the Company. The share awards will be subject to appropriate performance 
conditions, and all awards will be granted by the Remuneration Committee.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
107
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
37. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 
A list of the principal subsidiaries consolidated during the period is set out below: 
        % of ownership
  Country of Years ended 31 December
Subsidiary Principal activity incorporation 2007 2006
Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC Mining and processing 
  of raw materials Kazakhstan 96.61 96.61
Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC Metals processing Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
TNC Kazchrome JSC Mining Kazakhstan 98.30 98.30
SSGPO JSC Mining Kazakhstan 98.15 98.15
Zhairemsky GOK JSC Mining Kazakhstan 99.84 99.84
    
Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC Power generation Kazakhstan 98.41 98.37
    
ENRC Leasing BV Leasing  Netherlands 100.00 100.00
ENRC NV Holding Netherlands 100.00 100.00
Corica AG Holding Switzerland 100.00 100.00
    
Remput LLP (formerly Remput JSC)
*
 Transportation Kazakhstan – 100.00
Company Zhol zhondeushi LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
MEK Transsystema LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
Transcom LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 99.45
Transremwagon LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
RemPut Ltd. LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
Universal Service LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
RemSholService LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
Bereke 2004 LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
ENRC Logistics LLP (formerly Eurasia LLP) Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00
    
ENRC Marketing AG (formerly ENR Ferroalloys AG) Sales and marketing Switzerland 100.00 100.00
ENRC Marketing LLP (formerly Energo-Resources Ltd LLP) Sales and marketing Kazakhstan  100.00 100.00
ENRC Limited Holding United Kingdom 100.00 100.00
ENRC Management (UK) Ltd Group Managing Company United Kingdom 100.00 100.00
*  On 28 August 2006, Remput JSC became Remput LLP. In 2007, Remput LLP was merged to Company Zhol zhondeushi LLP. As a result of the merger, Remput LLP transferred all its 
rights and liabilities to Company Zhol zhondeushi LLP and ceased to exist as a legal entity.  108
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
PARENT COMPANY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORPORATION PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the period ended  
31 December 2007 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These parent company financial statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended  
31 December 2007.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are 
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, 
has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent 
company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
parent company financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the 
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officers’ Statement, Our Leadership Team, the Business Review and the Corporate Governance 
Report that is cross-referenced from the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial 
statements. The other information comprises the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officers’ Statement, the Business Review, 
the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and all other information referred to on the contents page. We 
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent 
company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial 
statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to 
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming 
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the 
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2007; 
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and 
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
PRICEw ATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
29 April 2008
>
>
> 109
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORPORATION PLC
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007
         As at 
         31 December 
In millions of US$        Note 2007
Assets  
Fixed assets  
Investments        3 1,200
Current assets  
Accrued interest         17
Amount owed by ENRC Limited        4 2,401 
Cash at bank and in hand         1
Total current assets         2,419
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to ENRC Management (UK) Ltd        4 (69)
Net current assets         2,350
Total assets less current liabilities         3,550
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital        5 258
Share premium account        6 2,999
Profit and loss account        7 293
Total capital employed         3,550
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these financial 
statements. 
The financial statements on pages 109 to 111 were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
DR JOHANNES SITTARD   MIg UEL PERRY
Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer
  110
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE PERIOD FROM 8 DECEMBER 2006 TO 31 DECEMBER 2007
1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTINg P OLICIES
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards 
and generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom (‘UK GAAP’). 
The functional and presentation currency of the Company is US dollars. At 31 December 2007 the exchange rate was £1 = US$1.996 and the 
average rate for the period was £1 = US$2.004.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet at cost less provisions for impairment. Investments are tested for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable.  An 
impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the investment exceeds the higher of net realisable value and the discounted future 
earnings from the investment.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in currencies other than US dollars, including the issue of shares, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated using the rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which 
they arise.
IPO costs
Costs related directly to the new issue of shares have been deducted from equity.  Attributable IPO costs have been allocated between the 
share premium and income statement in proportion to the number of new shares issued compared to the existing number of shares. Other 
costs attributed to the listing have been expensed.
Taxation including deferred tax
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except that 
deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.  Deferred tax is recognised on 
an undiscounted basis.
Share-based bonus awards
The fair value of the services received under an equity-settled share-based bonus award scheme from the Directors, management, senior 
employees and professional advisers for their contribution to the Company’s preparations for admission to the London Stock Exchange was 
measured by reference to the fair value of the shares granted less par value at the grant date and was recognised in the profit and loss 
account.
Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before 
or on the balance sheet date. Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after 
the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
2. TAx
Factors affecting future tax charges
There are no material factors affecting future tax charges.
         Period ended 
         31 December 
In millions of US$         2007
Tax reconciliation to UK statutory rate    
Profit on ordinary activities before tax         793
Notional tax charge at the UK tax rate of 30%         238
Effects of:
Items not deductible for tax purposes         13
Losses not recognised for deferred tax         49
Items not chargeable for tax purposes         (300)
Total tax         – 
The Company has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences of US$49 million for the year ended 
31 December 2007 (2006: US$nil). It is probable that future taxable profit will not be available to utilise the benefits of these temporary 
differences.
3. INVESTMENTS         As at 
         31 December 
In millions of US$         2007
Cost and net book value
At 8 December 2006         –
During the period the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of: 
ENRC Limited         1,200
ENRC Management (UK) Ltd         –
Total investments         1,200 111
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. INVESTMENTS CONTINUED
 In December 2006 the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of ENRC NV (a Dutch company). Under sections 131 and 133 of the 
Companies Act 1985 the share premium on these shares was not recognised. The cost of the investment was recorded as the par value of 
20,000,000 shares of US$10 each and a promissory note of US$1,000 million. In March 2007 the Company exchanged its shares in ENRC NV 
for 100% of the share capital of ENRC Limited and as such ceased to recognise its investment in ENRC NV and recognised an equivalent 
investment in ENRC Limited.
Both ENRC Limited and ENRC Management (UK) Ltd are incorporated in the UK.
4. RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES TO gROUP COMPANIES
The amount owed by ENRC Limited bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.056%. It is repayable on demand.
The current account payable to ENRC Management (UK) Ltd arises from IPO costs paid on behalf of the Company and is repayable on demand.
5. SHARE CAPITAL
         As at 
         31 December 
In millions of US$         2007
Authorised: 
2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.20 each        400
 
Issued and fully paid: 
1,287,750,000 ordinary shares of US$0.20 each        258
The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 8 December 2006 as a public limited company with a share capital 
of £50,000 divided into two ordinary shares of £1 each and 49,998 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of £1 each. The share 
capital was one-quarter paid. On 19 December 2006, the Board resolved to effect the transfer of the two ordinary shares and 49,998 
non-cumulative redeemable preference shares to The State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan (the ‘Committee’). On the same day the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from £50,000 to £50,000 and 
US$200,000,000 by the creation and issuance of 20,000,000 new ordinary shares of US$10 each as part of the acquisition of ENRC NV (refer 
to note 3). In addition, the 49,998 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of £1 each held by the Committee, were re-designated as 
ordinary shares of £1 each, the resulting 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each were consolidated into one ordinary share of £50,000 and then 
the ordinary share was re-designated as a special share. 
Share split 
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 8 November 2007, each of the issued, and each of the authorised but unissued, 
ordinary shares of US$10.00 par value each in the capital of the Company  was subdivided into 50 ordinary shares of US$0.20 par value 
each. On the same day the authorised share capital of the Company was increased to 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares. 
Issuance of shares on IPO
On 12 December 2007, the Company successfully completed its IPO and listed on the London Stock Exchange. A total number of 
277,750,000 shares were issued at £5.40 with a par value of US$0.20 each for total proceeds of about £1,500 million. Costs related to the 
issuance of new shares and attributable IPO costs taken against share premium amounted to US$96 million.
A further 10,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.20 each were awarded to Directors, management, senior employees and 
professional advisers as part of the IPO bonus Plan on 12 December 2007. The fair value of the services received was measured at the fair 
value of the shares at the grant date of £5.40 per share less par value. The share awards are subject to a restriction period of one year from 
the date of the IPO during which any dealings are prohibited.
Redemption of special share
Pursuant to the Company’s articles of association, the one special share of nominal value of £50,000 held by the Committee was cancelled 
upon admission of the Company’s shares to the London Stock Exchange.  As the share was only one-quarter paid up, £12,500 was paid to 
the Committee upon cancellation. 
6. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT 
         As at 
         31 December 
In millions of US$         2007
At 8 December 2006         –
Premium on shares issued on IPO         2,986
Premium on shares issued to Group management as IPO bonus       109
IPO costs charged to share premium account         (96)
At 31 December 2007         2,999
7. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The profit for the period from 8 December 2006 (date of incorporation ) to 31 December 2007 amounted to US$793 million. In December 2007 the 
Company paid a dividend of US$500 million to the pre-IPO shareholders.
8. CONTINg ENCIES AND COMMITMENTS
The Company has a commitment to make investments of US$5 million annually in 2008 and 2009 and US$20 million annually from 2010 until 
2024 into Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC, its subsidiary, to finance the expansion of its production capacity, including that of its operating 
divisions, amounting to US$310 million at 31 December 2007. 112
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
SRK Consulting (UK) Ltd. (SRK) has reviewed the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve  statements as of 31 December 2007 of the material 
mining assets of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC (ENRC, also referred to as the ‘Company’) and restated these in accordance 
with the terms and definitions given in The 2004 Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves (the ‘JORC Code’) as published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, 
Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia. 
In 2007, SRK prepared an independent mineral experts’ report (‘MER’) on the mining, processing, smelting and power generating assets of 
the Company. An abridged version of this MER has been included in the prospectus (the ‘Prospectus’) published by the Company in 
connection with the admission of the ordinary shares of the Company to trading on the London Stock Exchange plc’s market for listed 
securities in December 2007 (the ‘IPO’). The MER contains Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Statements in accordance with the JORC code, 
dated 1 July 2007.
The Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve statements have now been stated as of 31 December 2007 and are considered an update to the 
information included in the MER. During the MER process, SRK prepared resource/reserve statements as of 31 December 2006 and the 
current statements are generally calculated as depletion of the status as of 31 December 2006 by the production during 2007. Necessary 
adjustments have been applied to reflect mining parameter and production from outside of the previously delineated resources. 
SRK relies on the Company and its technical representatives to ensure all technical information provided to SRK as at 15 February 2008, is 
accurate. SRK obtained a written confirmation from the Company, that there have not been any material changes at any of the operations 
which have the potential to affect resources and reserves in a material way. 
Based on its review, SRK is satisfied that the underlying resource/reserve inventory as determined by the Company in line with the legal 
requirements of the Republic of Kazakhstan provide a consistent and reliable basis for SRK’s subsequent adjustments.
SRK CONSULTINg (UK) LTD
Floor 5
Churchill House
Churchill Way
Cardiff CF10 2HH
United Kingdom
19 March 2008
ORE RESERVES/MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES
AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2007 113
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
RESERVES
Ore reserves and mineral resources for ENRC Divisions are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration 
Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 (the ‘JORC Code’). Codes or guidelines similar to JORC with only minor regional 
variations have been adopted in South Africa, Canada, the US, Chile, Europe and some other countries. Together these represent current 
best practice for reporting ore reserves and mineral resources.
The JORC Code envisages the use of reasonable investment assumptions, including the use of projected long-term commodity prices, in 
calculating reserve estimates. 
Ore Reserve and Mineral Resources information in the tables below is based on Ore Reserve and Mineral Statements of the individual 
entities as audited and re-stated as at 31 December 2007 in accordance with the JORC code by SRK Consulting (UK) Ltd (‘SRK’).
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resources estimate figures in the following tables are as of 31 December 2007. Summary data for year end 
2006 are shown for comparison. No significant changes with respect to the classification of the Mineral Reserve and Ore Resource have 
occurred in 2007. 
Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves. Metric units are used throughout. 
Summary of Ore Reserves of ENRC
    Reserves as of   Reserves as of   
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006  
Reserves
  Proved  Probable  Total  Total mine
 Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade life as at 
Minerals type Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % 31/12/2007
Ferroalloy Division 
  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3 
Chrome ore 6.8 39.5 159.4 42.3 166.2 42.2 172.1 42.1  41 years
  Mn  Mn  Mn  Mn  
Manganese ore* – – 23.3 19.0 23.3 19.0 26.1 19.2 15 years
  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn 
Iron-manganese ore* – – 4.2 44.0/5.5 4.2 44.0/5.5 4.5 44.2/5.5 10 years
Iron Ore Division
  Fe  Fe  Fe  Fe 
Iron ore 301.4 41.9 1183.5 35.3 1484.9 36.6 1524.2 36.6 30 years
Alumina and Aluminium Division
  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3 
Bauxite 63.3 43.1 97.4 43.3 160.7 43.3 164.6 43.3 34 years
Energy Division
Coal
1
 62.0 – 700.0 – 762.0 – 781.0 – 38 years
1 Coal Reserve quality parameter: Calorific value=3,990Kcal/Kg (net as received); 0.56% S (air dried); 42.5% ash (air dried).
*  Based on the extensive amount of additional mineral resources, it is expected that manganese and iron manganese ore reserves and the mine life of the Zhairem mines can be 
significantly increased in future.  Extension projects at Ushkatyn-III (combined open pit and underground operation) and Zhomart (including the Zapadny-Zhomart area) are currently 
under development involving a Mineral Resource inventory of some 15Mt of manganese ore and 10Mt of iron-manganese. However, mining and cost parameters have yet to be 
defined in more detail. The Company believes that this will be done in time for inclusion of these projects in the next independent Resource/Reserve audit scheduled for early 2009.
Summary of Mineral Resources of ENRC
(Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
  Measured  Indicated  Inferred Total Total
 Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Minerals type Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Ferroalloy Division
  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3
Chrome ore 82.0 50.7 196.3 48.7 52.5 48.6 330.8 49.2 336.6 49.1 
  Mn  Mn  Mn  Mn  Mn
Manganese ore – – 45.8 17.6 57.4 21.2 103.2 19.6 106.3 19.7
  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn
Iron-manganese ore – – 7.3 44.3/1.7 3.6 40.1/1.5 10.9 42.9/1.6 11.5 43.3/1.7
Iron Ore Division
  Fe  Fe  Fe  Fe  Fe
Iron ore 401.2 44.4 3225.7 38.2 891.1 39.3 4518.0 39.0 4557.3 39.0
Alumina and Aluminium  
 Division
  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3
Bauxite 67.9 43.7 103.4 43.7 2.6 46.1 173.9 43.8 177.7 43.8
Energy Division
Coal
1
 1,059 – 195 – – – 1,254 – 1,269 – 
1 Coal Resource quality parameter: Calorific value= 4,580Kcal/Kg (net as received); 0.57% S (air dried); 36% ash (air dried). 114
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Detailed ENRC reserves and resources by ore type and mine
FERROALLOY DIVISION
Mining facilities of the Ferroalloy Division produce chrome ore, manganese ore and iron-manganese ore. These facilities are represented by Joint 
Stock Company (JSC) Kazchrome and JSC Zhairemskiy GOK. JSC Kazchrome in turn consists of Donskoy GOK and Kazmarganets Mining Unit.
Ore Reserves – Chromite Deposits
    Reserves as of  Reserves as of 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
    Proved  Probable Total Total 
   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name  Type of mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Donskoy GOK   Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3
10th Anniversary U/G – – 116.6 44.0 116.6 44.0 117.8 44.0 
Molodezhnaya U/G 6.8 39.5 20.6 42.1 27.4 41.5 29.3 41.7 
Poiskovoye O/P – – 0.1 41.5 0.1 41.5 1.3 41.5 
Yuzhny O/P – – 3.1 41.9 3.1 41.9 3.5 41.7 
Stockpiles  – – 19.0 31.9 19.0 31.9 20.2 31.3 
Donskoy total  6.8 39.5 159.4 42.3 166.2 42.2 172.1 42.1 
Mineral Resources – Chromite Deposits
(Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
   Measured Indicated  Inferred Total Total 
 Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Donskoy GOK   Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3  Cr 2O 3
10th Anniversary U/G 63.7 50.7 163.9 50.5 48.8 48.4 276.4 50.2 277.7 50.2 
Molodezhnaya U/G 18.2 51.0 10.7 51.0 3.7 51.0 32.6 51.0 34.6 51.0 
Poiskovoye O/P – – 0.1 48.5 – – 0.1 48.5 1.1 48.5 
Yuzhny O/P 0.1 48.8 2.6 49.1 – – 2.7 49.0 3.0 48.8 
Stockpiles  – – 19.0 31.9 – – 19.0 31.9 20.2 31.3 
Donskoy total  82.0 50.7 196.3 48.7 52.5 48.6 330.8 49.2 336.6 49.1 
Ore Reserves – Manganese Deposits
    Reserves as of  Reserves as of 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
    Proved  Probable Total Total 
   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name  Type of mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Kazmarganets   Mn  Mn  Mn  Mn
Tur O/P – – 6.3 22.1 6.3 22.1 7.0 22.5  
Vostochny Kamys O/P – – 1.4 18.2 1.4 18.2 1.8 18.8 
Kazmarganets total  – – 7.7 21.4 7.7 21.4 8.8 21.7 
Zhairemsky GOK         
Ushkatyn-I O/P – – – – – – – –
Ushkatyn-III O/P – – 14.5 17.4 14.5 17.4 15.6 17.6 
Ushkatyn-III U/G – – – – – – – –  
Zhomart O/P – – 1.1 23.3 1.1 23.3 1.3 23.1 
Zapadny Zhomart O/P – – – – – – – –  
Perstenevsky O/P – – – – – – – – 
Stockpiles  – – – – – – 0.4 12.1  
Zhairemsky GOK total  – – 15.6 17.8 15.6 17.8 17.3 17.9  
Grand total  – – 23.3 19.0 23.3 19.0 26.1 19.2  
 
ORE RESERVES/MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES CONTINUED 115
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
RESERVES
Mineral Resources – Manganese Deposits
(Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
   Measured Indicated  Inferred Total Total 
 Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Kazmarganets   Mn  Mn  Mn  Mn  Mn
Tur O/P – – 6.2 24.6 2.8 15.3 9.0 21.7 9.7 22.2
Vostochny Kamys O/P – – 1.4 18.9 1.2 19.3 2.6 19.1 3.0 19.5
Kazmarganets total  – – 7.6 23.5 4.0 16.5 11.6 21.1 12.7 21.6
Zhairemsky GOK           
Ushkatyn-I* O/P – – 18.7 11.7 0.4 12.2 19.1 11.8 19.2 11.8
Ushkatyn-III O/P – – 15.0 21.0 – – 15.0 21.0 16.1 21.3
Ushkatyn-III U/G – – – – 50.9 21.6 50.9 21.6 50.9 21.6 
Zhomart O/P – – 0.9 25.2 – – 0.9 25.2 1.3 25.0
Zapadny Zhomart O/P – – 3.6 19.1 1.3 23.9 4.9 20.3 4.9 20.3 
Perstenevsky O/P – – – – 0.8 21.0 0.8 21.0 0.8 21.0
Stockpiles  – – – – – – – – 0.4 12.1
Zhairemsky GOK total  – – 38.2 16.4 53.4 21.5 91.6 19.4 93.6 19.5
Grand total  – – 45.8 17.6 57.4 21.2 103.2 19.6 106.3 19.7
* These Ushkatyn-I resources relate to a particular high-iron manganese mineralisation (jacobsite), which were grouped for the purpose of this report together with the other 
manganese resources.
 
Ore Reserves – Iron Manganese Deposits
    Reserves as of  Reserves as of 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
    Proved  Probable Total Total 
   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name  Type of mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Zhairemsky GOK   Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn
Ushkatyn-I O/P – – 3.2 45.3/6.0 3.2 45.3/6.0 3.2 45.3/6.0   
Ushkatyn-III O/P – – 0.5 34.3/6.3 0.5 34.3/6.3 0.7 38.1/6.5  
Ushkatyn-III U/G – – – – – – – –  
Zhomart O/P – – 0.5 45.4/1.5 0.5 45.4/1.5 0.6 45.4/1.5  
Zhairemsky GOK total  – – 4.2 44.0/5.5 4.2 44.0/5.5 4.5 44.2/5.5  
 
Mineral Resources – Iron Manganese Deposits
(Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
   Measured Indicated  Inferred Total Total 
 Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Zhairemsky GOK   Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn  Fe/Mn
Ushkatyn-I O/P – – 5.6 44.1/1.6 – – 5.6 44.1/1.6 5.6 44.1/1.6
Ushkatyn-III O/P – – 0.6 38.7/2.7 – – 0.6 38.7/2.7 0.9 43.1/2.7  
Ushkatyn-III U/G – – – – 3.6 40.1/1.5 3.6 40.1/1.5 3.6 40.1/1.5  
Zhomart  – – 1.1 48.3/1.6 – – 1.1 48.3/1.6 1.4 48.3/1.6 
Zhairemsky GOK  total    7.3 44.3/1.7 3.6 40.1/1.5 10.9 42.9/1.6 11.5 48.3/1.7 116
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
IRON ORE DIVISION
Mining facilities of the Iron Ore Division consist of JSC SSGPO mines.
Ore Reserves – Iron Deposits
    Reserves as of  Reserves as of 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
    Proved  Probable Total Total 
   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name  Type of mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
SSGPO   Fe  Fe  Fe  Fe
Sokolovsky U/G 17.6 38.5 229.5 31.4 247.1 31.9 249.5 31.9 
Sokolovsky O/P – – 31.2 32.8 31.2 32.8 40.4 32.8
Sarbaisky (main) O/P 41.2 38.8 76.0 33.8 117.2 35.6 126.1 35.7 
Sarbaisky (southern) O/P 59.2 44.5 83.7 44.3 142.9 44.4 142.9 44.4
Kacharsky O/P 183.4 42.0 672.8 35.6 856.2 37.0 872.3 37.1 
Korzhinkol’skoye O/P – – 90.3 36.4 90.3 36.4 93.0 36.4 
SSGPO total  301.4 41.9 1183.5 35.3 1484.9 36.6 1524.2 36.6 
Mineral Resources – Iron Deposits
(Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
   Measured Indicated  Inferred Total Total 
 Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
SSGPO   Fe  Fe  Fe  Fe  Fe
Sokolovsky U/G 85.7 48.3 1098.0 38.8 275.6 42.3 1459.3 40.1 1461.8 40.1
Sokolovsky O/P – – 31.0 33.6 11.1 26.6 42.1 31.8 51.1 32.1 
Sarbaisky (main) O/P 55.9 37.6 802.5 37.4 157.9 38.8 1016.3 37.6 1025.0 37.6
Sarbaisky (southern) O/P 59.2 46.3 170.1 44.5 116.2 48.1 345.5 46.0 345.5 46.0
Kacharsky O/P 200.4 44.0 994.4 36.7 278.4 33.2 1473.2 37.1 1489.8 37.1
Korzhinkol’skoye O/P – – 129.7 42.2 51.9 40.1 181.6 41.6 184.1 41.5
SSGPO total  401.2 44.4 3225.7 38.2 891.1 39.3 4518.0 39.0 4557.3 39.0
 
ALUMINA AND ALUMINIUM DIVISION
Mining facilities of the Alumina and Aluminium Division are presented by JSC Aluminium of Kazakhstan (AoK) mines. AoK in turn consist of 
Krasno-Oktyabrskoye Mining Unit (KBRU) and Torgayskoye Mining Unit (TBRU).
Ore Reserves – Bauxite
    Reserves as of  Reserves as of 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
    Proved  Probable Total Total 
   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name  Type of mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Aluminium of Kazakhstan   
KBRU    Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3 
Krasnooktyabr’skoye O/P 34.7 43.4 60.0 43.0 94.7 43.1 96.3 43.1
Belinskoye O/P 12.0 41.6 1.9 41.6 13.9 41.6 15.2 41.6
Ayatskoye O/P 6.9 44.5 – – 6.9 44.5 7.3 44.4
Vostochno-Ayatskoye O/P 5.9 43.3 34.4 44.0 40.3 43.9 40.3 43.9
KBRU total  59.5 43.1 96.3 43.3 155.8 43.3 159.1 43.3
TBRU
Amangel’dinsky O/P 3.8 43.8 1.1 42.0 4.9 43.4 5.5 43.4
TBRU total  3.8 43.8 1.1 42.0 4.9 43.4 5.5 43.4
Grand total  63.3 43.1 97.4 43.3 160.7 43.3 164.6 43.3
ORE RESERVES/MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES CONTINUED 117
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
RESERVES
Mineral Resources – Bauxite
(Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
   Measured Indicated  Inferred Total Total 
 Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
Aluminium of Kazakhstan
KBRU    Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3  Al 2O 3
Krasnooktyabr’skoye O/P 36.8 43.8 63.5 43.4 – – 100.3 43.5 101.9 43.6 
Belinskoye O/P 12.7 41.9 2.1 41.9 – – 14.8 41.9 16.1 41.9 
Ayatskoye O/P 7.3 45.0 – – – – 7.3 45.0 7.7 44.9 
Vostochno-Ayatskoye O/P 6.2 43.7 36.4 44.4 0.1 42.2 42.7 44.3 42.7 44.3 
KBRU total  63.0 43.6 102.0 43.7 0.1 42.2 165.1 43.7 168.4 43.7 
TBRU           
Amangel’dinsky O/P 4.9 44.9 1.4 42.3 2.5 46.2 8.8 44.8 9.3 44.8
TBRU total  4.9 44.9 1.4 42.3 2.5 46.2 8.8 44.8 9.3 44.8
Grand total  67.9 43.7 103.4 43.7 2.6 46.1 173.9 43.8 177.7 43.8
ENERg Y DIVISION
Mining facilities of Energy Division are represented by the Vostochnyi open pit of JSC Eurasian Energy Corporation (EEC).
Coal Reserves
    Reserves as of  Reserves as of 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
    Proved  Probable Total Total 
   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name  Type of mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
EEC         
Vostochny O/P 62.0 * 700.0 * 762.0 * 781.0 (1)
Grand total  62.0 * 700.0 * 762.0 * 781.0 (1)
* Coal Reserve quality parameter: Calorific value=3,990Kcal/Kg (net as received); 0.56% S (air dried); 42.5% ash (air dried).
Coal Resources
(Coal Resources are inclusive of Coal Reserves)    Resources as of   Resources as of 
    31 December 2007   31 December 2006
   Measured Indicated  Inferred Total Total 
 Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Enterprise and mine name mine Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt % Mt %
EEC           
Vostochny O/P 1,059 * 195 (1) – – 1,254 * 1,269 (1) 
EEC total  1,059 * 195 (1) – – 1,254 * 1,269 (1) 
* Coal Resource quality parameter: Calorific value=4,580Kcal/Kg (net as received); 0.57% S (air dried); 36% ash (air dried). 118
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Al
2
O
3
  aluminium oxide
AoK  Aluminium of Kazakhstan
BAT  Best Available Techniques International Practices
CIS  Commonwealth of Independent States
Cr
2
O
3
 chromium oxide
EBITDA  Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation
EEC  Eurasian Energy Company
ENRC  Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC
Fe
2
O
3
  iron oxide
IAS  International Accounting Standards
IFRS  International Financial Reporting Standards
IPO  Initial Public Offering
JSC  Joint Stock Company
KAS  Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter
KBRU  Krasno Oktyabrskoye bauxite mine
LME  London Metal Exchange
MMK  The Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works Open Joint Stock Company
n/a  not applicable
OJSC  Open Joint Stock Company
O/P  open pit
PBT profit before tax
SRK  SRK Consulting (UK) limited
SSGPO  Sokolovsko Sarbaiskoye Ore Mining and Processing Association
TBRU  Torgay bauxite mine
UK  United Kingdom
US  United States of America
gLOSSARY 119
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE INFORMATION
alumina  Any of several forms of aluminium oxide, Al
2
O
3
, occurring naturally as corundum, or obtained by refining of 
bauxite ore.
aluminium smelter An electrolysis process plant used to convert alumina to aluminium metal.
bauxite  An earthy rock composed almost wholly of aluminium hydroxide, often formed by the intense weathering of 
existing rocks. It is the principal ore of aluminium.
beneficiation  The process used to remove unwanted material from mined ore, in order to increase the proportion of useful 
metal compounds (minerals).
bentonite  A soft rock type composed mainly of the clay material montmorillonite. When in contact with water it has the 
characteristic ability to swell to many times its dry volume.
blast furnace  A pyrometallurgical process plant which employs hot air (blast) as an aid to reduce the mineral ore (usually iron 
oxides: hematite or magnetite) to its metallic element (Fe).
brownfield  A development project that is close to existing industrial operations with proximity to existing infrastructure, 
often an extension and with known geological conditions.
calcite A common rock forming mineral. calcium carbonate CaCO
3
.
capacity  Means the design number of units that can be produced in a given time period based on operations with a 
normal number of shifts and maintenance interruptions.
capital expenditure Expenditures incurred during the process of commencing, expanding or sustaining production.
charge chrome  A ferrochrome alloy where the percentage of chromium is between 50%–55%. This is a material charged to a 
steel production furnace.
chromite Chromium spinel (Fe, Mg)O·(Fe,Al,Cr)
2
O
3
, the principal chromium ore mineral, chromium content 43%–68%.
chromium Chemical element with symbol Cr, commonly used in steel industry to produce stainless steel.
coke  Bituminous coal from which the volatile components have been removed. Is used as a fuel and as a reducing agent in 
smelting.
concentrate  A material that has been processed to increase the content of the contained valuable component or mineral 
relative to the contained waste.
corundum A mineral with the ideal composition Al
2
O
3
, natural alumina.
crushing  Size reduction into relatively coarse particles by stamps, crushers, or rolls.
dilution  The contamination of ore with barren wall rock leading to lower grade in the mined product than in the in situ 
ore itself.
dip The angle at which a bed, stratum, or vein is inclined from the horizontal, measured perpendicular to the strike.
dolomite A mineral, magnesium calcium carbonate, and the rock composed thereof. Used as flux in steel industry.
drill hole  T echnically, a circular hole drilled by forces applied percussively or rotationally. Loosely and commonly, the
 name applies to a circular hole drilled in any manner.
enrichment  The process of removing impurities from mined ore, resulting in an increase in the proportion of the valuable 
mineral or metal component (similar to beneficiation and concentration).
excavator  Mobile machine used in open pit mining for the digging of ore and waste from the mine and loading it onto 
vehicles for transportation.
fault  A fracture or a fracture zone along which there has been displacement of one side relative to the other. The 
displacement may be a few inches or many miles.
ferroalloys  Group of alloys having iron (Fe) as one of the defining elements. These alloys form the feed material for various 
finishing processes e.g. steel making. The Group, in particular, produces high, medium and low carbon 
ferrochrome, ferrosilicochrome and ferrosilicomanganese.
ferrochrome  An alloy of iron and chromium primarily used as an input to stainless steel making. Comprising charge chrome, 
high carbon, medium carbon  and low carbon ferrochrome.
ferrosilicochrome An alloy with iron, chrome and silicon as the main elements.
ferrosilicomanganese An alloy with iron, manganese and silicon as the main elements.
ferrosilicon An alloy with iron and silicon as the main elements.
furnace  A vessel in which ore is reduced to molten metal under the action of applied heat. Similarly, crude metal is 
treated in a furnace by adding alloys to produce refined metals.
grade  Quantity of metal in a specified quantity of rock, concentrate, alloy or other material, usually expressed as a 
percentage of the primary element.
greenfield A term used to describe an area of undeveloped land, either currently used for agriculture or just left to nature.
hematite Common iron oxide mineral, Fe
2
O
3
.
JORC code  The 2004 Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves as 
published by the joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian 
Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia.
limestone Sedimentary rock comprised mostly of calcium carbonate (calcite).
magnetite A mineral of iron, Fe
3
O
4
, a common ore forming mineral with characteristic magnetic properties.
metallurgy The science that deals with procedures used in extracting metals from their ores, purifying and alloying metals.
mill  commonly used to describe a plant where ore is ground and undergoes physical or chemical treatment to 
extract and produce a concentrate of the valuable minerals.
Mineral Resources  A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, 
quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. The location, 
quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or 
interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of 
increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
mineralisation  The process by which minerals are introduced into a rock. More generally, a term applied to accumulations of 
economic or related minerals in quantities ranging from weakly anomalous to economically recoverable.
open pit mining  Method of mining in which the ore is extracted from an excavation open to the sky. 120
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
ore  The naturally occurring material from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted profitably 
or to satisfy social or political objectives. The term is generally but not always used to refer to metalliferous 
material, and is often modified by the names of the valuable constituent, e.g. iron ore.
Ore Reserves  The economically mineable part of a Measured and/or Indicated Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials 
and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate assessments and studies 
have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, 
metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These assessments 
demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified. Ore Reserves are sub-
divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
Outokumpu A Finnish company producing, beside others, metallurgical process equipment.
overburden In an open pit mine, the unwanted material that must be stripped away to reveal the ore beneath.
pelletising  The process of agglomerating fine product and moulding it into the shape of a pellet (marble shape 8 to 16mm 
in diameter), which is more favourable in size and strength for efficient down stream processing than the 
original fines.
plant  Commonly used as general term for fixed or moveable equipment required in the process of winning of raw 
material and down stream processing, including crushers, mills, smelters.
Probable Ore Reserves  The economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource. It 
includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate 
assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically 
assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. 
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified. A 
Probable Ore Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved Ore Reserve but is of sufficient quality to 
serve as the basis for a decision on the development of the deposit.
Proved Ore Reserves  The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances 
for losses which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been 
carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, 
economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate 
at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified. A Proved Ore Reserve represents the 
highest confidence category of reserve estimate. The style of mineralisation or other factors could mean that 
Proved Ore Reserves are not achievable in some deposits.
refinery An electrolytic or chemical facility producing pure metals or metal compounds.
saleable product Products that have been upgraded into a form that may be sold to customers.
sediment  Particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow, glaciers or wind and which eventually is deposited as a 
layer of solid particles.
silicomanganese A ferroalloy composed principally of manganese, silicone and iron. used in steel production.
smelting  A thermal process whereby molten metals (or amalgamated metals) are liberated from beneficiated ore or 
concentrate with impurities speared as lighter slag.
spot price The current price of a metal for immediate delivery.
stockpile  A (generally intermediate) accumulation of ore, other mineral product or coal, prior to individual processing 
steps. Any heap of material formed for loading or other purposes.
strike  A geological term which describes a horizontal line on the surface of a dipping stratum. The strike is 90° to the 
dip of the stratum.
turbines A rotating machine for producing electricity, driven by steam or gas.
vein  An epigenetic mineral filling of a fault or other fracture in a host rock, in tabular or sheet like form, often with 
associated replacement of the host rock. a mineral deposit of this form and origin.
waste  Rock lacking sufficient metal grade and/or other characteristics to be a source of economic revenue. Wet 
magnet separation is a process of iron ore beneficiation, by which magnetite (Fe
3
O
4
) particles are attracted by a 
magnetic field while water washes out the (non magnetic) waste product.
gLOSSARY CONTINUED 121
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE INFORMATION
%  percent
°  degree
GWh  gigawatt hour
kcal/kg  thousand calories per thousand grammes
kg  kilogramme
kt  thousand metric tonnes
KWh  kilowatt hour
KZT  Kazakhstani tenge
Mt  million metric tonnes
MW  megawatt
m
3
  cubic metres
 
UNITS 122
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Registered Offices
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC
16 St James’s Street
London SW1A 1ER
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7389 1440
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7389 1441
Website: www.enrc.com
Registered in England and Wales
Company No: 6023510
Corporate Brokers
Credit Suisse (Securities) Europe Limited
One Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QJ
United Kingdom
Deutsche Bank AG
1 Great Winchester Street
London EC2N 2DB
United Kingdom
Financial PR
M: Communications
1 Ropemaker Street, Ninth Floor
London EC2Y 9HT
United Kingdom
Legal Advisers to the Company  
as to English and US law
Jones Day
21 Tudor Street
London EC4Y 0DJ
United Kingdom
Legal Advisors to the Company  
as to Kazakh law
Denton Wilde Sapte
96 Baitursynov Street
Almaty 050022
Kazakhstan
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
United Kingdom
Registrars and Transfer Office
The Company’s ordinary share register is maintained by:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
Telephone +44 (0) 870 707 1680
Email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, 
such as change of address, change of ownership or dividend 
payments should be directed to the Company’s Registrars. Holders 
of ordinary shares may also view and update details of their 
shareholding, after a brief registration process, via our Registrars’ 
Investor Centre service at: www.computershare.com/investor/uk.
Internet share dealing
An internet share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary 
shares who want either to buy or sell ordinary shares.
Further information about this service can be obtained from the 
Company’s Registrars on +44 (0) 870 707 1680 or by logging on to: 
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk.
Telephone share dealing
A telephone share dealing service with the Company’s Registrars  
is available for holders of ordinary shares. The service is available 
from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank 
holidays, on telephone number +44 (0) 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling  
the above number.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
As at 9 April 2008
  Number of  Number of
 holders % shares
1 to 1,000 shares 246 27 114,624
1,001–5,000 113 13 294,629
5,001–50,000 213 24 4,133,100
50,001–100,000 78 9 5,868,949
100,001–500,000 143 16 33,633,136
500,001 and over 102 11 1,243,705,562
  100 1,287,750,000
Events Calendar
Wednesday, 14 May 2008 Interim Management Statement/ 
 Q1 Production Report
Wednesday, 11 June 2008 Annual General Meeting
Wednesday, 6 August 2008 Q2 Production Report
Thursday, 21 August 2008 2008 Half-Year Results
Wednesday, 12 November 2008 Interim Management Statement/ 
 2008 Q3 Production Report
All dates are provisional and subject to change.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 123
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CORPORATE INFORMATION
NOTES 124
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NOTES GROUP OVERVIEW
  1 Highlights  
  2 ENRC at a Glance  
  4 Regional Overview 
  6 Chairman’s Statement 
 10 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 
 14 Our Leadership Team 
BUSINESS REVIEW
 20 Key Performance Indicators 
 22 Risk Factors
 24 Operating Review
 30 Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter
 32 Financial Review
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 50 Directors’ Report
 54 Corporate Governance Report
 59 Remuneration Report
 63 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 64 Independent Auditors’ Report
 65 Consolidated Income Statement
 66 Consolidated Balance Sheet
 67 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 68 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
108  Company Independent Auditors’ Report
109  Company Balance Sheet
110  Notes to the Company Financial Statements
RESERVES
112  Ore Reserves/Mineral Resources Estimates
CORPORATE INFORMATION
118 Glossary
121 Units
122 Shareholder Information
CONTENTS
This document includes forward-looking statements that 
reflect the current views of the Group’s management with 
respect to future events. These forward-looking statements 
include matters that are not historical facts or are statements 
regarding the Group’s intentions, beliefs or current 
expectations concerning, among other things, the Group’s 
results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, 
prospects, growth, strategies, and the industries in which 
the Group operates. Forward-looking statements are based 
on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore 
too much reliance should not be placed upon them. Such 
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of 
which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the 
Group’s control. The Group cautions you that forward-looking 
statements are not guarantees of future performance and 
that if risks and uncertainties materialise, or if the 
assumptions underlying any of these statements prove 
incorrect, the Group’s actual results of operations, financial 
condition and liquidity and the development of the industry 
in which the Group operates may materially differ from those 
made in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements 
contained in this document. In addition, even if the Group’s 
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and 
the development of the industry in which the Group operates 
are consistent with the forward-looking statements 
contained in this document, those results or developments 
may not be indicative of results or developments in future 
periods. Except as required by the Listing Rules and 
applicable law, the Group does not undertake any obligation 
to update or change any forward-looking statements to 
reflect events that occur or circumstances that arise after the 
date of this document. EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORPORATION PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
CLEARL Y FOCUSED,
WELL POSITIONED,
ETHICALL Y MINDED.
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC
www.enrc.com
+44 (0) 20 7389 1440
