 600
2,000,000
24,00
60
6
20
Our Strategy
Management software
is used by over 600
organisations
worldwide
We support
clients in over
60 countries
On an average day,
Experian processes
two million credit
reference enquiries
More than 
24 million
people visit 
our Interactive
websites each
month
We have chosen six
essential responsibilities
to provide the focus for
our CR strategy
We introduced
over 20 new
products last year 
Annual Report 2007
Figuring it out...
Annual Report 2007
5
This was our fifth
consecutive year of
double-digit revenue
and profit growth
www.experiangroup.com
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Report
www.experiancrreport.com
This comprehensive online report explains 
Experian's CR strategy and how we are 
managing our responsibilities in six key areas
Explaining
Experian
www.explainingexperian.com
Explaining Experian provides further insight for 
investors into what Experian does, our products 
and services and the markets we serve
This document opens as a PDF
Operational headquarters
Experian
Talbot House
Talbot Street
Nottingham
NG80 1TH
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 115 941 0888
F: +44 (0) 115 934 4905
Experian
475 Anton Blvd.
Costa Mesa 
CA 92626
United States
T: +1 714 830 7000
F: +1 714 830 2449
Corporate headquarters
Experian Group Limited
Newenham House
Northern Cross
Malahide Road
Dublin 17
Ireland 
T: +353 (0) 1 846 9100
F: +353 (0) 1 846 9150
Corporate office
Experian
Cardinal Place 
80 Victoria Street
London
SW1E 5JL
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 20 304 24200
F: +44 (0) 20 304 24250
© 2007 Experian Ltd
All rights reserved
The word “Experian” is a 
registered trademark in the EU 
and other countries and is 
owned by Experian Ltd and/or 
its associated companies
6927 CoverArtwork_5.qxd  14/6/07  09:37  Page 1 Introduction
Experian at a glance.................................................02 
Credit Services..........................................................04
Decision Analytics ....................................................06
Marketing Solutions .................................................08
Interactive ................................................................10
Chairman’s statement ..............................................12
Highlights of our year ..............................................13
Interview with Don Robert, Chief Executive Officer ..14
Business review
Overview..................................................................16
Corporate objectives and strategy ............................19
Key performance indicators......................................20
Progress in 2007 ......................................................22
Experian Americas....................................................24
Experian UK and Ireland...........................................26
Experian EMEA/Asia Pacific.......................................28
Financial review........................................................30
Risks and uncertainties.............................................35
Governance
Corporate responsibilities .........................................36
Board of directors ....................................................38
Directors’ report.......................................................40
Corporate governance .............................................42
Report on directors’ remuneration............................47
Statement of directors’ responsibilities .....................59
Financial statements
Group income statement .........................................60
Group balance sheet................................................61
Group statement of recognised income 
and expense.............................................................62
Group cash flow statement......................................63
Notes to the Group financial statements ..................64
Report of the auditors: Group 
financial statements ...............................................120
Parent company profit and loss account.................121
Parent company balance sheet...............................122
Notes to the parent company 
financial statements ...............................................123
Report of the auditors: parent company 
financial statements ...............................................133
Reconciliation to the Experian Group 
pro forma balance sheet at 31 March 2006 ...........134
Shareholder information.........................................135
See financial review on page 33 for definition of 
non-GAAP measures used throughout this report.
Contents Financial highlights
$3.4bn
Total continuing sales at constant exchange rates up 14%
$825m
EBIT at constant exchange rates up 11%
17 c
Full-year dividend
Our annual report has been produced using ISO 14001 and FSC
certified environmental print technology. Vegetable-based inks
and a single-site production facility, requiring no transport
between processes, further reduced the environmental footprint.
The report is printed on an environmentally responsible paper,
which uses 50% certified de-inked post consumer waste and
50% certified virgin fibre from sustainable sources.
Produced by Accrue* Printed by Empress Litho
6927 CoverArtwork_5.qxd  14/6/07  09:37  Page 2 Experian Annual Report 2007   | 01
At the heart of Experian lies a vast store of
information - about consumers and how they
behave, about businesses and how they
perform, and about motor vehicles, insurance
policies and other valuable assets.
Over the years, we have developed exceptional
skills in the management and safeguarding of
this information. We have also gained a unique
understanding of the significance and value of
different types of information, and the ability to
apply this insight to everyday decisions. It has
opened up almost limitless possibilities.
At Experian, we harness information and use it
to empower businesses and consumers.
Whatever they want, however they want it, 
we figure it out.
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
  02 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Providing personal
credit information
to consumers and
helping guide them
to the best deals on
millions of products
and services.  
Interactive
Helping organisations
to find new customers
and to take advantage
of opportunities for
expanding existing
relationships.  
Marketing
Solutions
Experian at a glance
Principal activities
Helping organisations
to evaluate the risks
and rewards associated
with providing credit to
consumers and
businesses.
Credit 
Services
2m
On an average day, we process two
million credit reference enquiries
20bn
We delivered 20
billion emails 
in 2007
Experian is dedicated to helping
organisations and consumers make
important and often time-critical
decisions with increased confidence
and control.
Organisations rely on us for help 
in finding new customers and
developing successful relationships
with their existing customers.
Consumers turn to us for help in
making more informed financial
and purchasing decisions.
We employ more than 13,000
people through offices in 36
countries and support clients in
over 60 countries. Our products
and services are grouped under four
principal activities: Credit Services,
Decision Analytics, Marketing
Solutions and Interactive.
Providing the analytical
skills and specialist
software products that
enable organisations to
increase the speed and
quality of their
decision-making.
Decision
Analytics Experian Annual Report 2007 | 03
All financial numbers relate to continuing activities only, with growth rates at constant exchange rates
All financial numbers relate to continuing activities only, with growth rates at constant exchange rates
Highlights of 2007 Contribution to Group sales Sales by region
£ 1. 5bn
Our fraud prevention
tools helped clients in the
UK to identify over 
£1.5 billion of potential
fraud last year
All financial numbers relate to continuing activities only, with growth rates at constant exchange rates
All financial numbers relate to continuing activities only, with growth rates at constant exchange rates
24m
Each month, 24 million 
people visit our 
Interactive websites
• Sales up 4% to $1,520m; organic growth of 3%
• EBIT up 11% to $420m, with margin up 
150 basis points
• Acquired credit bureaux in Canada and Estonia
• Resilience of business model demonstrated in 
UK and US
• Sales up 16% to $392m; organic growth of 15%
• EBIT up 27% to $136m, with margin up 
320 basis points
• Further contract wins during the year with established
clients such as HSBC and Bank of America
• Building our presence in emerging markets such as
India and Russia
• Sales up 13% to $728m; organic sales unchanged
• EBIT up 24% to $73m, with margin up 
90 basis points
• Repositioning into digital media continues
• Product innovation accelerated
• Sales up 40% to $784m; organic sales up 23%
• EBIT up 50% to $173m, with margin up 110 basis points
• Consumer Direct and PriceGrabber performed strongly;
LowerMyBills impacted by weakness in US sub-prime
mortgage market in latter part of year
• Businesses working closely together to optimise returns on
marketing spend, Interactive’s largest cost Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Credit Services helps
organisations to evaluate the
risks and rewards associated
with providing credit to
consumers and businesses. We
enable clients to take better
informed lending decisions and
to make it easier and quicker
for their own customers to
obtain finance.
Our credit databases hold information about the
credit status of more than 300 million consumers
and about 30 million businesses around the world.
The information is collected from publicly available
sources and from lending organisations. It is used
by our clients to confirm the identity of applicants
and to help them decide whether to provide credit
and on what terms. It also assists them in
determining what measures to take when a
customer fails to fulfil the terms of a credit
agreement or other obligation. 
The collection and use of credit information,
particularly about individuals, is strictly controlled
by law. We go to great lengths to ensure that we
comply fully with the regulations that apply within
each of the countries in which Experian operates.
We also play a leading role in helping consumers 
to understand how credit information is used 
and how to avoid the perils of fraud 
and over-indebtedness.
Our long experience of managing very large credit
databases has resulted in us becoming the host for
other types of information too. In the US and UK,
for example, we maintain information on over 600
million motor vehicles, enabling consumers, traders
and lenders to establish the true history of used
vehicles. We also support the UK insurance
industry with a database of previous insurance
claims, allowing companies to confirm instantly 
the claims history of new applicants. In France, 
we help organisations wanting to outsource
activities such as the processing of cheque and
debit card transactions.
Credit Services
04 |   Experian Annual Report 2007  3 is the UK’s leading mobile media
company, and the group has over 10
million customers worldwide.  In
2003, 3 launched the first 3G
network in the UK, to support the
new generation of mobile phones.
Four years on, the company is the
market leader in 3G, providing
customers with access to an
unrivalled range of voice, video,
Internet and information services
through a single mobile device.
3’s services are sold through a network of almost 9,000
retail outlets, including their own high street shops,
Internet and many independent retailers.  To support its
rapid growth, 3 needs the confidence of knowing that it
is taking on new customers who will fulfil their credit
commitments.  In the competitive mobile phone market,
customers expect instant credit decisions, with immediate
access to the mobile network and to leave the shop with
a highly valuable 3G mobile phone.
Experian provides 3 with a range of services to support
its need for rapid decision-making at the point of sale.
Central to this is Experian’s credit database, which
combines publicly available information, such as the
electoral register, with detailed historical information
from lending organisations about how consumers have
fulfilled their past and current obligations.  New
customers are checked against this database to confirm
their identity and, with the help of Experian’s Delphi
scoring system, to predict the likelihood of them
becoming a ‘good’ account if the application is accepted.  
As with all ‘instant credit’ industries, fraud is an ever-
present danger and understanding the applicant’s
ability to pay is vital information for 3. Using
Experian’s fraud prevention tool, Detect, 3 is
able to highlight potential frauds at the
same time that the application is
processed. Detect uses an extensive
database of previous credit
applications to identify
discrepancies in new applications,
providing 3 with the information
to be able to further validate
higher risk applications.     
It takes Experian, on average, less than two seconds to
confirm an applicant’s identity and to provide 3 with a
decision, based on their lending criteria.    
“With over 500,000 applications for credit each year we
have to be confident in our ability to make the right
decisions, quickly”, explains Mike Elliott, Head of Credit
Risk. “Experian has become an important partner to us,
helping us to grow our business and bring new and
better services to the mobile media market.” 
Case study
|  05
500,000
3 receives over 500,000
applications for credit each year Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Decision Analytics provides the
analytical skills and specialist
software products that enable
organisations to increase the
speed and quality of their
decision-making.
Using Experian’s products, clients are able to assess
very quickly the potential risks and rewards
associated with particular actions. They can
determine, for example, the suitability of a
customer for additional loan products or the
probability of an individual responding to a
particular credit offer. They can also assess the
likelihood of a customer account falling into arrears
if a credit limit is increased. 
Experian’s credit scorecards use well-proven
statistical techniques to predict the behaviour of
consumers based upon their historical performance
and the characteristics declared on their application
forms. This helps to ensure that decisions are taken
fairly and impartially. Used in conjunction with our
specialist software, clients can test and fine-tune
different lending strategies. Changes in strategy
can then be implemented quickly, with the
confidence that they will be reflected in dealings
with all customers throughout the organisation. 
Experian also supports clients in the constant fight
against fraud. Consumers today expect to be able
to make instant purchases with their credit and
debit cards, even remotely over the Internet or by
telephone. They also want fast decisions when
applying for credit facilities, personal loans or other
services. We help by instantly verifying a customer’s
identity and alerting our clients to discrepancies in
the information provided.
Decision Analytics
06 |   Experian Annual Report 2007  Case study
|  07
Chris Hawkes, Head of Group Retail Credit & Risk, HSBC
600
Experian’s Strategy Management
software is already being used by
over 600 organisations worldwide
HSBC is one of the world’s largest
banking and financial services
organisations, with over 125 million
customers in 82 countries and
territories.
Everyday, HSBC makes millions of decisions in the
management of its customers’ accounts and applications.
It may be to authorise a payment to facilitate an Internet
or in-store purchase, to consider an application for a new
or increased credit limit, to determine the most
appropriate product to offer, or to decide whether a
customer can access money from a cash machine.
The ability to take those decisions quickly and accurately
is critical to the success of HSBC’s different delivery
channels and operations around the world. Just as
important is that each decision is taken in a timely,
consistent and fair manner, wherever they are made and
whatever the circumstances.
Faced with increasingly complex requirements and
customer demands, HSBC chose Experian’s Strategy
Management software to assist in the delivery of mission-
critical solutions. Strategy Management is a sophisticated
business tool, already used by over 600 organisations
worldwide, which enables organisations to automate or
simplify large volumes of decisions. It does this by
assessing relevant information and customer requests
against a wide array of regulatory, business and
commercial requirements and objectives.
“Experian’s Strategy Management solution will become
an integral part of our global business”, explains Chris
Hawkes, Head of Group Retail Credit & Risk at HSBC. “It
is enabling us to achieve consistency in decision-making
across HSBC’s diverse operations, whilst improving the
speed and quality of our decisions. For our customers, it
means that we can provide quicker decisions, offer a
wider range of products and provide options that are
more relevant to their particular needs and
circumstances. In short, it is an essential component to
delivering high quality customer service.”
“Once we have rolled it out fully across our business,
Strategy Management will be helping us make the
billions of decisions we need to make each year.”
Experian and HSBC have a longstanding relationship
spanning 21 years and six continents.
“Like HSBC, Experian operates globally, but with a strong
local focus on the markets in which it operates in order
to provide local solutions”, says Chris Hawkes. “In
Experian we have a trusted global partner with the
experience and technology to support our business going
forward.” 08 |   Experian Annual Report 2007 
Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
O Ou ur r c cr re ed di it t d da at ta ab ba as se es s
h ho ol ld d i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n
a ab bo ou ut t t th he e c cr re ed di it t
s st ta at tu us s o of f m mo or re e t th ha an n
3 30 00 0 m mi il ll li io on n
c co on ns su um me er rs s a an nd d a ab bo ou ut t
3 30 0 m mi il ll li io on n b bu us si in ne es ss se es s
a ar ro ou un nd d t th he e w wo or rl ld d. .
Marketing Solutions helps
organisations to find new
customers and to take
advantage of opportunities for
expanding existing
relationships. We enable our
clients to communicate with
prospective customers in the
most effective way and with the
most appropriate offer. It might
be by email, post, telephone,
direct response television or
even text messaging. 
Experian owns and manages very large databases of
information about the location, lifestyle and attitudes
of consumers. These databases include publicly
available information, as well as the results of 
large-scale consumer surveys. The information
provides clients with considerable insight into the
purchasing preferences of consumers. In total,
Experian holds consumer marketing information on
about 130 million households globally. 
Experian assists clients in planning and executing
campaigns across all forms of media channel, from
emailing to newspaper and television advertising. 
By combining our information resources with our
skills in data analysis, we can help clients predict who
is most likely to respond to a given offer and the 
best channel through which to communicate. 
As well as managing our own databases, we build
and maintain marketing databases for clients. These
combine the client’s own customer records with
Experian data to provide a comprehensive profile of
each customer. They enable organisations to
communicate with their customers in a very personal
and relevant way, as well as helping them identify
individuals with similar characteristics who have the
potential to become new customers. 
Experian also keeps clients abreast of changes in the
wider marketplace through our research and
forecasting services. We help them to measure the
potential market opportunity for particular products
and services, and to identify profitable locations for
new branches or new sales initiatives. 
Marketing Solutions The following
clients benefit
from our
expertise in
Credit Services:
Case study
|  09
15
Experian has supported
Crate and Barrel for
more than 15 years
Crate and Barrel is recognised across
the United States as a leading multi-
channel retailer of housewares and
furniture. The company was
founded in 1962 as a family business
and today has more than 150 stores
and over 7,000 associates
nationwide. During this time, it has
also become a major catalogue and
Internet retailer. 
Direct marketing has been a key ingredient in Crate and
Barrel’s success and, for more than 15 years, the
company has looked to Experian to help drive its
catalogue and retail campaigns. 
Underpinning these campaigns is the confidence that
Crate and Barrel’s customer database is operating
effectively and that it is successfully reaching the right
customers. Experian provides a range of list processing
services to ensure that the company’s mailing lists are
accurate and up-to-date, as well as being compliant with
postal regulations and properly formatted for quick and
easy processing through the mail. 
Prospecting for new customers is a key priority. Crate and
Barrel needs access to potential customers with similar
behaviours and lifestyles as its own, as well as a good
understanding of these customers so that it can market
to them in the most effective way. By participating in
Experian’s Z-24 cooperative database, Crate and Barrel
has access to information about millions of avid
catalogue shoppers, enabling the company to continue
growing its customer base. Its prospecting efforts have
also been supported by expert analysis from Experian of
the responses to campaigns. This helps Crate and Barrel
to identify those consumers that will be most responsive
to its direct marketing and to determine the most
appropriate messages and offers.
With the adoption of new online sales channels, Crate
and Barrel has also needed an email service delivery
solution that can help drive the same success in the
digital world that it has experienced with direct mail. The
company has therefore adopted Experian’s CheetahMail
services to deliver all of its email 
marketing offers. 
“The partnership with Experian has been a long and
successful one”, said Gordon Segal, Founder and CEO
of Crate and Barrel. “Experian has helped Crate and
Barrel maintain a strong relationship with lifelong
customers, while ensuring that we continue to grow our
customer base.” Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Interactive is a trusted
intermediary on the Internet,
helping to guide consumers to
the best deals on millions of
products and services. We also
offer consumers the ability to
view their credit report on line
and to monitor changes to their
credit records. Each month, we
attract over 24 million visitors
to our consumer websites.
Experian owns a number of Internet businesses that
assist consumers in securing the right deal.
LowerMyBills.com, for example, helps consumers to
identify the most appropriate offers on mortgages
and other financial products. PriceGrabber.com
provides information that compares millions of
different products, from computers and cameras to
clothing and furniture. ClassesUSA guides
consumers to the most appropriate online education
courses. These websites provide a free service that
helps people to lower the cost of daily living. We
earn our revenues from clients, who pay us for each
sales lead we generate for them.
Experian also provides consumers with the ability to
view their credit file securely over the Internet. This
file contains the information that lenders see when
deciding whether to give someone a loan, mortgage
or credit card. Consumers can check their file at any
time to ensure it accurately reflects their credit
history. Regular alerts from Experian keep them in
touch with changes to the file and help protect
them from becoming a victim of identity theft.   
Interactive businesses
Interactive
10 |   Experian Annual Report 2007 
ConsumerInfo.com
www.consumerinfo.com
LowerMyBills.com
www.lowermybills.com
ClassesUSA
www.classesusa.com
PriceGrabber.com
www.pricegrabber.com
www.pricegrabber.co.uk
FreeCreditReport.com
www.freecreditreport.com
CreditExpert
www.creditexpert.co.uk MSN is one of the world’s largest
Internet portals, giving millions of
people access to a range of specialist
sites and services. Its financial
section, MSN Money, is one of the
most popular personal finance
websites in the UK. 
In 2004, MSN Money became a partner for Experian’s
online CreditExpert service, expanding on a successful
and established relationship with Experian in the
United States. 
CreditExpert gives consumers unlimited online access to
their Experian credit report, enabling them to see the
same information that financial organisations use when
making decisions about lending money.
In return for a monthly subscription fee, CreditExpert
users can monitor changes in their report and check that
the information it contains is up to date and accurately
reflects their situation. Email or text message alerts are
sent to them if a significant change occurs that might
indicate attempted identify fraud. 
Subscribers also have access to helplines staffed by
experts in credit matters and identity fraud, as well as a
library of information about credit-related and identity
fraud issues. 
“Credit monitoring is still a relatively new concept for
consumers in the UK, but with rising personal debt,
soaring house prices and wide publicity around the risk
of ID fraud, it is set to become part of everyday life”,
says Alastair Bruce, Senior Content Manager for 
MSN Money.
“CreditExpert is a logical extension of the services we
provide through MSN Money. Visitors to our site can now
learn how to take control of their credit history, which
helps them to get the credit they need in future and,
more importantly, guard against identity fraud.” 
MSN is one of several partners with whom Experian
works to find new ways to spread the message about the
importance of credit report monitoring. More than 2,000
websites have agreements to promote CreditExpert in 
the UK. 
Case study
Alastair Bruce, Senior Content Manager, MSN Money
|  11
2,000
Over 2,000 websites in the
UK have agreements to
promote CreditExpert 12 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s statement
Experian has made a good start in its
new life as an independent company.
The demerger last October was well
received by shareholders, while the
£800m of new equity that we raised
from investors will provide the
flexibility to fund future growth
opportunities. Since then, we have
made progress operationally and
strategically, while delivering a fifth
consecutive year of double-digit
revenue and profit growth.
Your Board has announced a dividend of 11.5 cents,
giving a full-year dividend of 17 cents.
At the time of demerger, we talked about Experian’s
strategy for achieving long-term, sustainable growth. Our
aim is to continue to deliver mid to high single-digit
organic sales growth each year and to accelerate this
through complementary acquisitions. We also remain
firmly focused on tight cost control throughout our
operations, in order to reinvest the savings in new
products and new markets, while maintaining or
improving our profit margin.
I am pleased to say that we successfully harnessed all our
key drivers of growth this year. For example, we won
significant new contracts with clients such as Bank of
America, HSBC and GE Money. We developed more than
20 new products, covering all areas of our business. We
strengthened our position in new market sectors, including
government, healthcare and telecommunications. We
extended our operations into other countries such as India
and Poland. And we acquired further complementary
businesses to accelerate our entry into new markets and
new product areas.
We also continued to attract and retain talented people
throughout all parts of the business. I am especially
pleased that we have been able to appoint such a strong
Board to take the Group forward. Our recent
appointments have ensured that the Board has an
excellent blend of skills and experience, gained
internationally and across a wide range of market sectors. 
One of our other early actions as an independent company
was to set out explicitly our social responsibilities. These
range from ensuring that our data is protected effectively
to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. We believe that
Experian’s products and services contribute strongly to a
healthy economy, by helping businesses to build successful
customer relationships and enabling consumers to make
more informed purchasing decisions. 
Ultimately, Experian’s success lies in the skills and energies
of the people who work for us and I would like to
acknowledge their achievements and to thank them for
their tremendous support. In particular, I would like to
recognise the extraordinary contribution of John Saunders,
our Chief Executive of Global Operations, who has recently
retired after 24 years with the business. 
I hope you will enjoy reading this first annual report from
Experian and that, like me, you will be pleased with our
progress this year.
John Peace
Chairman
22 May 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements Expanding
geographically
Experian now 
has offices in 
36 countries 
around the 
world following 
the opening of 
our first office 
in India.
Highlights of our year
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 13
Investing in people 
As part of the demerger, Experian
employees were granted shares to
enable them to associate even more
closely with our goal of building
shareholder value over the long term.
Investing in technology
Secure and efficient data processing is
vital to our success and last year we
began consolidating our three major US
data centres into two, including the
bunkered, secure state-of the-art centre
in McKinney, 
T exas. 
Product innovation
TrueTouch was one of more than 
20 new products launched during the
year; it classifies the UK’s 46 million
adults according to their likely
response to different methods of
communication. 
Demerger completed
Experian became an independent
company, listed on the 
London Stock Exchange,
successfully raising 
£800m to support 
future growth 
initiatives.
Deepening client
relationships
HSBC and Bank of America were
among many long-established clients
to award major new contracts to
Experian.
Complementary
acquisitions
We made several acquisitions during
the year, including credit bureaux in
Canada and Estonia and marketing
businesses around the world, in order
to complement our existing businesses   
and accelerate
their growth.
Investing in data
Information is at the
heart of what Experian
does and we are
always looking to
acquire new sources. In
April 2007, we agreed
to acquire Hitwise, which
provides data on how people use the
Internet.
Developing 
new sectors
Our CreditExpert service, 
which enables consumers 
to manage their own  
personal credit 
information, provided 
over three million 
credit reports to UK 
subscribers last year 
following its introduction 
from the US in 2003. 14 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Interview with Don Robert, Chief Executive Officer
“We have so many great
opportunities that probably 
our biggest challenge is deciding
which ones to focus on next.”
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements Experian Annual Report 2007  | 15
How have things changed for Experian since 
gaining independence?
For the great majority of us at Experian it has been
business as usual. We have a clear strategy for growth,
which we’re continuing to implement with enthusiasm
and confidence. The only significant change is that most
of our employees are now shareholders, which was the
result of a grant of shares at the time of the demerger.
For me this was one of the best outcomes of Experian’s
independence. It means that our people have a real stake
in the future of the company and can align themselves
even more closely to our goal of creating value for
shareholders through sustained profitable growth. 
Were you pleased with the Group’s performance 
last year?
Yes, I was delighted with our performance. It was our
fifth consecutive year of double-digit sales and profit
growth, which is a significant achievement by any
standards. We did exactly what we said we would do.
We delivered strong organic growth; we improved our
margins; we achieved strong cash generation and we
continued to deliver against our strategic objectives. Just
as important is that it was a balanced performance,
which came from all our principal geographies. 
Where do you see the best future growth 
opportunities for Experian?
Experian is well positioned to take advantage of many
long-term growth trends. In our core credit markets, we
are seeing government departments and companies in
sectors such as telecommunications and healthcare
wanting to make use of the expertise we first developed
in financial services. Fraud prevention is one example of
how we are successfully transferring this expertise to
different market segments. We are also seeing clients
wanting to communicate with their own customers over
multiple communication channels and to switch more of
their advertising expenditure to new media. This is good
for our marketing businesses and enables us to capitalise
on investment in services such as email delivery and
market research. The continuing growth of the Internet is
creating tremendous opportunities for our Interactive
businesses as consumers make greater use of this
medium for information and purchasing. And, of course,
we are also seeing increasing demand for our skills from
emerging markets such as China, India, Latin America
and Russia, which is helping to drive our geographic
expansion. Experian is a business with multiple 
growth drivers.    
What are going to 
be the main challenges 
for Experian going forward? 
We have so many great opportunities that probably our
biggest challenge is deciding which ones to focus on
next. As with any business, issues can occasionally
surface that are beyond our control, but we have the
advantage of not being overly dependent on any one
geography, client, channel or economy for our success.
One challenge we face all the time though is the need
for talented people to support our growth plans. We are
a people business in the real sense of that word and we
pride ourselves on being able to attract employees with
the skills and ambition necessary to develop and grow
our business. Talent management is one of our top
priorities and indeed our talent plans are regularly
reviewed by the Group Board.    
How is Experian preparing for the future?
By being in the right markets with the right products and
the right people leadership. Innovation is key to our
business and ensures that we continue to provide clients
with market-leading solutions. Last year alone we rolled
out over 20 new products. We are also expanding into
new geographies to create future platforms for growth
and to enable us to support clients on a global basis. We
are continually investing in our future - in people, in
products, in acquisitions and in our infrastructure. 
What do you think Experian will look like in 
five years’ time?
We’ll be bigger, with a greater presence in more
countries. Our clients will be even more diverse and we
will be firmly established in many different sectors
beyond our original financial services and retailing
markets. We will have an increasing number of clients
who rely on us to deliver wide-ranging solutions across
many different geographies. Our Decision Analytics
products will have become the global standard in 
their respective niches and will be deeply embedded
within our clients’ decision-making processes at an
enterprise-wide level. We will be a recognised leader in
all types of customer acquisition through our Interactive
and Marketing businesses. And many more consumers
will have Experian websites “bookmarked” as their
favourite sites for saving money and making important
financial decisions.
What is it about Experian that makes you 
feel most proud?
Without question, our people. Whenever I visit an
Experian office, wherever it is in the world, I am struck
by the energy and enthusiasm of the employees I meet.
We are fortunate in having a great team of committed
people, who I know share my optimism about the future
for Experian. 
20
Last year alone we rolled out
over 20 new products Nature of business
Experian is a global leader in providing
information solutions to business clients
and consumers.  
We help organisations to find new customers and develop
and manage existing relationships by providing data,
decision-making solutions and processing services. We also
help consumers to understand, manage and protect their
personal information and help them make more informed
purchasing decisions. 
Experian’s vision is that our people, data and technology
become a necessary part of every major consumer
economy around the world. 
Data: At the core of Experian are comprehensive databases
of credit and marketing information on both consumers
and businesses. These databases, derived from both public
and private sources, contain extensive high quality
information that not only has historical depth, but also
significant breadth across various types of data. The
comprehensive portfolio of data maintained by Experian
makes us a partner of choice for many clients as we offer
more information than any single competitor. 
Decisions: Building on this foundation of data, Experian
uses proprietary analytical tools to analyse and interpret the
data and to help business clients to turn raw data into
critical decisions in a timely and consistent manner. Our
tools also help consumers to make more informed financial
and purchasing decisions more quickly. 
Distribution: Experian has a very broad distribution network
helping both business clients and consumers. We sell to
clients in over 60 countries around the world, in many
different markets including the financial services, retail,
telecommunications, automotive and public sectors. This
broad distribution platform is unmatched within the global
information solutions industry. 
As described on pages 4 to 11, Experian has four principal
activities: Credit Services, Decision Analytics, Marketing
Solutions and Interactive. Our business is managed on a
geographic basis with the three key regions being: the
Americas; the UK and Ireland; and Europe, Middle East,
Africa and Asia Pacific (EMEA/Asia Pacific). This structure
enables Experian to understand the different needs and
constraints of each local market and to serve both domestic
and international clients effectively within each region. 
Additional detailed information on Experian is available in
“Explaining Experian” which can be viewed on our Group
website at www.experiangroup.com.
Markets in which Experian operates
Experian has a widespread and balanced portfolio by
product type, by vertical market served and by country
served. As examples:
• In the year to 31 March 2007, 44% of sales came
from Credit Services, 12% from Decision Analytics,
21% from Marketing Solutions and 23% 
from Interactive.
• In the year to 31 March 2007, 58% of sales came
from the Americas, 25% from UK and Ireland and
17% from EMEA/Asia Pacific.
• Financial services clients account for 53% of our sales,
followed by 14% in direct-to-consumer, 11% for retail
and home shopping, 7% from telecommunications,
utilities and insurance and the balance from
government, publishing and media and automotive.
16 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Business review
Overview
Introduction | Business review | Governance  |  Financial statements
60
We sell to clients in over 
60 countries 
      • We have over 100,000 clients, of which the top ten
account for 17% of sales and the top 50 clients 36%
of sales.
• We employ more than 13,000 people with offices 
in 36 countries.
• We own and operate consumer credit bureaux in 14
countries and business credit bureaux in 7 countries. 
• We classify one billion consumers globally by 
socio-demograpic type in over 25 countries 
around the world.
As a result of this diversity, Experian is not overly
dependent on any one geography, client, channel or
economy. While Experian as a whole is clearly dependent
on the economic environments in which we operate, our
broad portfolio of products and markets served gives us
some resilience when our major markets weaken. New
products also affect Experian’s performance, as does our
success in gaining share in our chosen markets.
“Explaining Experian” details some of the economic
indicators that Experian monitors. 
Competitive position
Although we have
competitors in each of our
principal activities, there is no
single competitor capable of
offering the broad range of products
and solutions that Experian is able to
provide to domestic and multinational clients
around the world on the same scale. 
There is limited, if any, public information available on
the market share of each of Experian’s competitors in
each geographic region and across each principal activity.
In particular, because of the breadth of Experian’s
products offered around the world, we often compete
against niche local providers of services in our markets.
However, there are a number of larger and readily
identifiable companies that we view as our key
competitors, which are summarised below:
Credit Services: there are two other national consumer
credit bureaux in the US (Equifax and TransUnion). In the
UK, Experian is the clear market leader in consumer
credit with mainly local competition elsewhere. Dun &
Bradstreet is the only global business credit competitor.
Decision Analytics: the market leader in the US is Fair
Isaac; outside the US, Experian is the major player, facing
mainly fragmented local competition.
Marketing Solutions: there are some large competitors in
the US (such as Acxiom and Harte-Hanks) but
competition elsewhere is local, fragmented and often
specialist.
Interactive: Experian is the clear market leader in selling
credit reports and services direct to consumers ahead of
Equifax, TransUnion, Fair Isaac and other specialist
providers. Our sales are more than twice the size of any
of our competitors. The online lead generation market is
fragmented and Experian has strong market positions in
our chosen areas of operation.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 17
85
%
85% of our top 50
clients have been
doing business with
Experian for at least
five years  18 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Growth drivers
Experian is well positioned to benefit from a number of
key drivers of long-term growth. These include:
• Global growth in consumer credit: this leads to
increased demand for data from our credit bureaux
and increased use of our Decision Analytics’ tools to
help clients control credit risk and prevent fraud. 
• Increased use of the Internet by consumers and
businesses to both research and buy products and
services; companies are switching more of their
marketing spend to the Internet, which helps our
Interactive and Marketing Solutions activities.
• Increase in multi-channel 
marketing: companies are using 
more channels to communicate 
with their customers - away from mass 
media such as broadcast and print and 
towards email, the Internet, SMS and interactive TV.
Our newer Marketing Solutions activities benefit from
this trend as we help clients to target the right
customer, with the right message, through the 
right channel.
• Increase in demand from new vertical markets: clients
in sectors such as telecommunications, automotive and
government want to use the same data and tools that
Experian has successfully developed for the financial
services industry. 
• Increase in demand from new and emerging high
growth geographies: as the use of consumer credit, 
for example, increases in areas such as Eastern Europe,
Asia Pacific and Latin America, this will drive demand
for Experian’s data and decision tools, although it is
difficult to gauge the ultimate size of some of 
these markets.
Overview cont.
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
10
%
All acquisitions must deliver a
minimum 10% post-tax return
over time To fulfill Experian’s vision and to
capitalise on the growth opportunities
described above, we are focusing on
the following initiatives:
• Driving organic growth through:
- Deeper client relationships
- Geographic expansion
- Product innovation
- Vertical expansion
We aim to deliver mid to high single-digit organic sales
growth each year. 
• Accelerating growth through complementary
acquisitions, which bring us new data, technology,
products or clients, or enable us to grow in new vertical
and geographic markets. Our goal is to have about half
of our sales growth each year from acquisitions, subject
to targets meeting our strict strategic and financial
criteria. All acquisitions must deliver a minimum 10%
post-tax return over time. 
• Delivering operating leverage to maintain or improve
EBIT margins. We focus on cost control throughout our
operations, with the savings then reinvested in new
products and new markets. We look to drive both
revenue and cost synergies across the Group.
The key performance indicators on pages 20 and 21 show
a historical perspective on how Experian has performed
against these initiatives, while the operational review on
pages 22 to 29 discusses how Experian has done in 2007. 
Key resources 
Key to delivering these corporate objectives is our ability
to continue to invest in our three key resources – people,
data and technology.
People
We employ more than 13,000 people with offices in 36
countries. We pride ourselves on attracting, developing
and retaining talented, ambitious people who deliver a
quality service for our clients and grow our business.
Experian invests heavily in ensuring our employees have
the right environment and skills to do their best work. We
also endeavour to create the right opportunities for them
to apply and develop these skills. The management of
talent is one of our top priorities. 
Succession planning is used to ensure that appropriate
leadership resources are in place to achieve our objectives;
the plans are regularly reviewed by the Group Board. Two-
way communication is also central to our business.
Employees have a regular opportunity to give their views
through the annual employee survey, which is reviewed by
senior leaders and local teams and acted on accordingly.
Data
At the core of Experian are comprehensive databases of
credit and marketing information on both consumers and
businesses. The broad portfolio of data maintained by
Experian makes us a partner of choice for many clients as
we offer more information than any single competitor.
We invest heavily each year in maintaining complete,
accurate and up-to-date information, while adding new
data sources, where possible, which will further help
clients. Experian has a leadership position as the trusted
steward of much sensitive information and we have an
obligation to protect this - both to clients who are the
source of much of this data and to consumers who are
the subjects of the data. As a result, we operate very
rigorous security and control policies.
Technology
Experian’s information technology systems are
fundamental to our success. They are used for the
storage, processing, access and delivery of the data that
forms the foundation of our business; and for the
development and delivery of the value-added solutions
provided to clients. 
Much of the technology used by Experian and provided
to clients is developed, maintained and supported by in-
house teams across our various locations. We operate
continual maintenance and management of our
information technology systems, including the need to
integrate existing and acquired businesses. 
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 19
Corporate objectives and strategy
13,000
We employ more
than 13,000 people As explained in more detail on page
19, Experian’s objectives are to drive
organic growth, accelerate this growth
through complementary acquisitions
and maintain or improve margins. The
following indicators are the key ones
that the Board and management team
monitor to assess our success in
achieving our objectives.
Drive organic growth
Organic growth increased by 8% in the year to 31 March
2007, with strong sales growth across all three regions,
reflecting the benefits of Experian’s portfolio of activities
around the world.
Make complementary acquisitions
In the year to 31 March 2007, Experian increased its sales
from continuing activities by 14% at constant exchange
rates. Acquisitions accounted for 6% of the sales growth,
largely reflecting the contribution from PriceGrabber 
and ClarityBlue.
Maintain or improve margins 
In the year to 31 March 2007, Experian increased its EBIT
by 11% at constant exchange rates to $825m. EBIT
margin increased by 80 basis points to 21.8%, a further
year of progress.
Key performance indicators
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
8
%
We achieved
8% organic
sales growth in
the year
20 | Experian Annual Report 2007  14
Maximise EBIT conversion to cash
Experian aims to convert at least 85% of its EBIT into
operating cash flow each year, even after significant
investment in growth opportunities. In the year to 31
March 2007, Experian converted 97% of EBIT to
operating cash flow. 
Increase sales per employee
Our people are one of our key resources and sales per
FTE is a key measure of our productivity. In the year to
31 March 2007, sales per FTE increased by 12%. 
Expand geographic reach
Experian currently serves both local and multinational
clients in over 60 countries around the world. To aid this,
Experian acquired two consumer credit bureaux during
the year (in Canada and Estonia) bringing the total to 14;
and opened additional offices in Belgium, India and
Chile, among others, to improve the level of service
offered to clients. 
We are also fully aware of our wider responsibilities to
our stakeholders and society as a whole - the way we
achieve growth is as important as the growth itself. To
check how our activities impact society, we have evolved
a set of measures specific and relevant to our business.
These include monitoring our HR practices, our data
management integrity, our direct interactions with
consumers, the expected carbon footprint of our Group
and a review of our involvement in the communities in
which we operate. In addition, we carefully examine our
product portfolio and its direct and indirect benefit to
society. An overview of this year’s achievements is on
page 36 to 37 and all measures are reported in full in our
online corporate responsibility report at 
www.experiancrreport.com
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 21
Experian acquired two
consumer credit bureaux
during the year, bringing
the total to 14
12
%
Sales per FTE (full-time
equivalent) employee
increased by 12% We have made excellent progress
during the year against our strategic,
operational and financial objectives.
The demerger from GUS was a
significant milestone in the
development of Experian, allowing
investors to benefit directly from the
future growth of the company and
our employees to become
shareholders. The £800m raised from
both new and existing shareholders
provides us with financial flexibility
and will help to underpin our growth.
Delivery against financial objectives 
Over the past year, we have delivered against our key
financial objectives. We have driven growth in both sales
and profits, with organic sales growth of 8% and a
further improvement in EBIT margins in our continuing
business, excluding FARES. All three regions delivered
good organic sales growth, reflecting the strength of our
portfolio. Our cash flow was strong and we converted
97% of EBIT into operating cash flow, ahead of 
our target. 
Acquisitions made in the four years to March 2006
together delivered double-digit post-tax returns in the
year to March 2007. The more recent acquisitions are
trading to plan.
Clear strategic progress
Our strategic priority at Experian is to continue to deliver
sustainable growth in order to create lasting shareholder
value. To facilitate this, we focus on our primary growth
drivers, and good progress was made against these over
the past year:
• Deeper client relationships - we won a number of new
mandates from existing clients. For example, we
renewed and expanded contracts with seven of the
top ten US banks.
• Geographic expansion - we have continued to expand
in markets outside the US and the UK, with significant
new client wins in many countries, including Spain,
France, Japan, China and South Africa. 
• Product innovation - we continue to focus on product
innovation, introducing over 20 new products during
the year, including Precise ID, a new fraud detection
platform; MicroMarketer G3, the latest generation of
Experian’s global market segmentation system; and
Simmons online market research.
• Vertical expansion - we have strengthened our position
in new and expanding market sectors, including
telecommunications, government, retail and media. 
For example, Experian is now a provider of credit 
and decisioning services to all top five wireless
telecommunications companies in the UK.
22 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Progress in 2007
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
We spent $82
million on
acquisitions
during the year 
$82m Continued investment in business
We continue to invest organically in the business to drive
growth. During the year, this included development in
emerging markets, specifically Asia Pacific, and new
product initiatives. Future organic investment will include
further emerging markets development, the establishment
of a near-shore facility in Chile, and investment in the
Canadian bureau. In the year to March 2008, much of
this investment will be weighted towards the first half. 
Capital expenditure in the year was $275m (2006
$212m). Of this, $20m relates to an accelerated
technology spend on data centre consolidation in the US,
which will enhance efficiency and productivity. We expect
capital expenditure in the current year to be broadly in
line with last year.
We also take advantage of opportunities to accelerate
growth and improve productivity through selective,
targeted acquisitions. In the year under review, we made
a number of small acquisitions which complement our
existing portfolio. Acquisition spend in the year was
$82m, excluding deferred consideration paid, and
included:
• Two new credit bureaux, in Canada and Estonia,
expanding our geographic footprint.
• An additional US credit bureau affiliate.
• Three new Marketing Solutions businesses.
• A minority stake in Sinotrust, a business information
and market research company in China.
Since the year-end, we have agreed to acquire Hitwise, a
leading online marketing intelligence company, for
$240m. This acquisition, which forms part of our strategy
to reposition Marketing Solutions, will bring a rapidly
growing, successful business to Experian, and new unique
data. Other acquisitions since the year end include
Informarketing, a direct marketing services provider in
Brazil; Emailing Solution, a leading French permission-
based email marketing company; and Tallyman, a
collections management software business. We expect a
low single-digit contribution to sales growth from
acquisitions in the year to March 2008.
Evolution of leadership to drive
future success
Experian has considerable opportunities for
future growth, in particular as demand
increases for our services from multinational
companies and within emerging markets. In order
to give sharper focus to all our regions of operation, we
have created a number of new senior leadership roles. In
addition to our two major regions in the Americas and UK
and Ireland, we now have dedicated senior managers for
EMEA, Asia Pacific and India respectively (although for
reporting purposes these regions will continue to be
combined). Our new leaders in EMEA and Asia Pacific are
tasked with driving our presence in these important areas.
Following 24 years of strong leadership contribution, John
Saunders, Experian’s Chief Executive Officer of Global
Operations, has announced his retirement after a
transitional handover period. John’s achievements within
Experian have been considerable, having created a client-
driven organisation focused on innovation, and we thank
John for his enormous contribution.
Second dividend of 11.5 cents, to give 
full-year dividend of 17 cents
The Board of Experian has announced a dividend of 11.5
cents per share to give a full year dividend of 17 cents per
share. Based on continuing pro forma Benchmark EPS this
represents cover of just over three times.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 23
Experian’s full-year dividend
was 17 cents per share
17 c Experian Americas
24 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Operational review 
Experian Americas delivered a strong 
performance, more than offsetting
challenges in some markets. There
was excellent EBIT margin
progression, with all principal
activities improving year-over-year.
Credit Services
Includes consumer credit and business information
bureaux in the US and Canada, commercial lending
software and automotive services
Sales in Credit Services were up 5% in total during the
year, up 3% on an organic basis. Against tough
comparatives in 2006 (H1 2005/6 +18%, H2 +9%),
consumer credit services performed well, improving as
the year progressed. During the year, the business
demonstrated its resilience as clients shifted spend
towards account management and collections. Latterly
there has been improvement in customer acquisition
activity. Business information delivered a good
performance, reflecting expanded relationships with
several top ten banks and robust double-digit growth in
portfolio management products. Automotive did well on
the back of increased traction of its AutoCheck vehicle
history report and Autocount products. AutoCheck, for
example, secured a significant renewal from eBay
Motors. There was strong double-digit growth from
Baker Hill’s commercial lending software as it leveraged
Experian’s business information relationships. 
VantageScore, the new credit score jointly developed by
the three US credit bureaux, has performed well in its first
year of deployment and to date has secured over 1,300
clients in test. The integration of the Canadian consumer
database, acquired in September 2006, is proceeding well
and is on track for launch later this year. While small, this
will enhance the service offered to Experian’s US clients,
many of whom are active in Canada.
Decision Analytics
Includes credit analytics, decision support 
software and fraud solutions
Decision Analytics performed particularly well over the
year, with sales up 29%, reflecting increased market
penetration of both decision support software and fraud
prevention tools. The relationship with Bank of America
has continued to develop, as Experian becomes a
provider of enterprise-wide solutions, supporting Bank of
America across its credit and deposit products. 
Fraud prevention delivered very strong double-digit
growth, as demand for Experian’s identity verification
solutions has increased, driven by the launch of Precise
ID, its new fraud detection product. There was increased
adoption amongst financial services companies and a
major client win in the Internet payment space.
Marketing Solutions
Includes data and data management (consumer data, 
list processing and data integrity (including QAS), 
database management and analytics), digital services
(CheetahMail), research services (Simmons and Vente), 
and business strategies
Sales in Marketing Solutions were flat year-on-year and
marginally down (2%) on an organic basis. Marketing
Solutions continues to show divergent trends, with
declines in the traditional activities (consumer data, list
processing and database management), offsetting very
strong double-digit sales growth across Digital Services,
Research Services and QAS. Traditional activities, which 
in the year still accounted for over 50% of Marketing
Solutions sales, have been impacted by the secular shift
in marketing spend to new digital channels. 
Progress in the newer marketing areas is highly
encouraging. For example, CheetahMail delivered record
email volumes during the year (20 billion permission-
based messages), Simmons delivered strong growth in
syndicated research sales following new client wins and
QAS’ early foothold in the US has expanded rapidly.
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
29
%
Sales in Decision
Analytics in Experian
Americas were 
up 29% Interactive
Includes Consumer Direct (online credit reports, scores
and monitoring services) and lead generation businesses:
LowerMyBills (mortgages), PriceGrabber (comparison
shopping) and ClassesUSA (online education)
Sales in Interactive grew by 37% during the year,
contributing 38% of total Americas sales from continuing
activities. Organic growth was 20%, with the balance of
17% from acquisitions (mainly PriceGrabber). 
Consumer Direct delivered excellent growth throughout
the period, with strong demand from consumers for
credit monitoring services, which led to higher
membership rates. Meanwhile, increased focus on
enhancing the customer experience resulted in
significantly reduced churn rates. PriceGrabber delivered
very strong growth year-on-year, including a seasonal
boost in December, at which point unique visitors hit
record numbers. In the education vertical, growth at
ClassesUSA accelerated over the year, as it benefited from
shared expertise in online advertising with our other lead
generation properties.
Sales at LowerMyBills were impacted in the final quarter
by the downturn in US sub-prime lending, as lenders
either exited the market or considerably tightened lending
criteria (Q3 sales unchanged, Q4 down 8%). LowerMyBills
traditionally derives some 80% of sales from the sale of
mortgage leads to sub-prime lenders. However, there was
double-digit growth in EBIT in the year as a whole, as
LowerMyBills optimised marketing spend to generate
more profitable leads. In this challenging environment,
LowerMyBills continues to focus on marketing spend
efficiency and is driving sales through sales of higher
quality leads and diversification into both non sub-prime
and non mortgage-related products. 
Financial review
Sales from continuing activities were $1,990m, up 15%
compared to the same period last year, with organic
growth of 8%. Acquisitions, predominantly in the
Interactive segment, contributed 7% to sales growth.
EBIT from direct businesses was $508m (2006: $404m), an
increase of 26% in the year, giving an EBIT margin of
25.5% (2006: 23.3%). Margins improved across all
business segments, reflecting growing scale in Decision
Analytics and the newer areas of Marketing Solutions,
continuing operating efficiencies and the positive impact
of last year’s affiliate credit bureau acquisitions.
EBIT from FARES, the 20%-owned real estate information
associate, reduced in the period to $61m, compared to
$69m last year. This was primarily due to the decline in US
mortgage originations. The improved profit performance in
the second half of the year is attributable to a less difficult
mortgage origination market and continued cost action
by FARES. 
Experian Annual Report 2007   | 25
12 months to 31 March 20072006GrowthOrganic
$m $m % growth
%
Sales
- Credit Services 804 766 5 3
- Decision Analytics 82 63 29 29
- Marketing Solutions 353 355 - (2)
- Interactive 751 547 37 20
Total – continuing activities 1,990 1,731 15 8
Discontinuing activities
1
4 73 na
Total Americas 1,994 1,804 10
EBIT
- Direct business 508 404 26
- FARES 61 69 (11)
Total – continuing activities 569 473 20
Discontinuing activities
1
(7) 6 na
Total Americas 562 479 18
EBIT margin
2
25.5% 23.3%
1 Discontinuing activities include MetaReward
2 EBIT margin is for continuing direct business only and excludes FARES
9
% Experian UK and Ireland
26 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Operational review 
Experian UK and Ireland delivered a
good performance during the year, 
even though market conditions were
challenging. This further demonstrates
the resilience of the portfolio and
underscores its countercyclical qualities.
Credit Services
Includes consumer credit and business information
bureaux and automotive and insurance services 
Sales in Credit Services increased by 3% over the year.
The consumer credit environment in the UK remained
challenging, reflecting concerns over levels of consumer
indebtedness and rising interest rates. Experian benefited
as clients shifted spend from customer acquisition
towards cross-selling to existing customers, and to
portfolio and risk management. There was also good
growth in Experian‘s business information activities,
driven by product innovation and market share gains.
Elsewhere, diversification into sectors outside financial
services continues to be highly successful, with further
expansion in both the telecommunications and public
services sectors.
Decision Analytics
Includes credit analytics, decision support software and
fraud solutions
Sales in Decision Analytics showed good growth,
increasing by 8% during the year. Product innovation has
been a driver of this success, as illustrated by good
performances in origination and in customer
management solutions, with new software licensing wins
and significant client renewals. For example, Experian
further extended its relationship with HSBC, signing a
global contract to deliver Basel II models through its
Strategy Management decision support software. 
Demand for fraud prevention solutions continues to rise,
as financial institutions further focus on reducing fraud-
related losses. Experian’s Hunter solution has seen
considerable success and has secured several significant
new client wins, including RBS Group, which selected
Hunter for use across multiple brands and product lines.
Marketing Solutions
Includes data and data management (consumer data,
data integrity (QAS and Eiger Systems), database
management (including ClarityBlue) and analytics), digital
services (CheetahMail) and business strategies (including
Mosaic consumer segmentation, economic forecasting
and FootFall)
Total sales in Marketing Solutions were up 31%, with
organic growth of 1%. The latter was held back by the
weak environment for financial services in the UK, and
tough comparables for QAS, attributable to large public
sector contract wins last year. CheetahMail delivered an
excellent performance, benefiting from volume growth of
email campaigns and new client wins.
The contribution to growth from acquisitions of 30%
was primarily attributable to ClarityBlue and Eiger
Systems, both of which performed well during the year.
ClarityBlue secured a significant client win to provide
relationship marketing services globally to a major home
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements gaming and entertainment provider, and Eiger Systems
has been successfully integrated, following its acquisition
in June 2006.
We have previously announced our intention to integrate
UK marketing data, processing and database
management activities into a single business unit,
Experian Integrated Marketing. This will provide a single
point of sale for Experian’s services, an improved
customer proposition and significant cost savings.
Restructuring costs, which will be charged against EBIT,
are expected to be about $12m, of which about $8m
was incurred in the year, with the balance in the year to
March 2008. We expect full payback of the
reorganisation costs in the year to March 2009.
Interactive
Comprises CreditExpert (online credit reports, scores and
monitoring services sold direct to consumers)
Interactive grew sales by 176% over the year. This
excellent performance reflects the strength of demand
for CreditExpert, which benefited from growth in
membership and higher volumes of credit reports
delivered, driven by television and radio advertising and
the strength of marketing partnerships, for example with
AOL, Yahoo and MSN. 
Financial review
Total sales from continuing activities were
$843m, up 17% at constant exchange rates
compared to the same period last year. Organic growth
was 7%. The contribution to sales growth from
acquisitions during the year was 10%.
EBIT from continuing activities was $221m, an increase
of 16% at constant exchange rates over last year, prior
to the restructuring charge of $8m. The EBIT margin,
before the restructuring charge, was 26.2% (2006:
26.4%), with the slight decline reflecting the first time
inclusion of ClarityBlue, which has margins below the
average for Experian UK and Ireland. Improved operating
leverage and ongoing cost containment otherwise drove
margin enhancement in the other principal activities. 
Experian Annual Report 2007   | 27
12 months to 31 March 2007 2006 Growth
3
Organic
$m $m % growth
3
%
Sales
- Credit Services 266 245 33
- Decision Analytics 215 185 9 8
- Marketing Solutions 329 236 31 1
- Interactive 33 11 176 176
Total – continuing activities 843 677 17 7
Discontinuing activities
1
64 81 na
Total UK and Ireland 907 758 13
EBIT – UK and Ireland 221 179 16
Restructuring charge (8) - na
EBIT – continuing activities 212 179 12
Discontinuing activities
1
24 36 na
Total UK and Ireland 236 215 4
EBIT margin
2
26.2% 26.4%
1 Discontinuing activities include UK account processing
2 EBIT margin for continuing activities only, before restructuring charge
3 Growth at constant FX rates 
Sales from continuing activities 
in the UK and Ireland 
were up 17%
17
% Experian EMEA /Asia Pacific
Operational review 
Experian EMEA/Asia Pacific delivered
another good performance, reflecting
very high growth rates in Central,
Southern and Eastern Europe, South
Africa and Asia Pacific balanced by
slower growth in more mature
markets such as Western Europe.
Credit Services
Includes consumer credit bureaux in ten countries,
business information bureaux in four countries and
transaction processing, mainly in France
Credit Services sales grew by 5% at constant exchange
rates over the year, with organic growth of 4%.
Sales in transaction processing strengthened during the
year as the business benefited from the first time
contribution from a number of contract wins, particularly
in business process outsourcing. These include multi-year,
multi-million euro contracts with EDF, French Ministry of
Labour, GIE Sesam Vitale and the French Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. In addition, Experian has extended its
customer base in cheque processing and now acts for all
top six French banks. Transaction processing, which is a
relatively mature activity, accounts for nearly two-thirds of
Credit Services sales in EMEA/Asia Pacific. 
There were excellent performances from the consumer
credit bureaux, particularly in Central, Southern and
Eastern Europe and South Africa, driven by growth in
demand for credit and value-added products. The
acquisition earlier in the year of a business and consumer
credit bureau in Estonia has further extended Experian’s
geographic reach in the Nordic region, enhancing the
service offering to clients operating across the region.
28 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements Decision Analytics
Includes credit analytics, decision support software 
and fraud solutions sold in over 60 countries around 
the world
Sales from Decision Analytics showed excellent progress,
with growth of 21%, 18% on an organic basis. 
Experian Decision Analytics is recognised by major clients
around the world for its global products and local
presence in key markets. In addition to delivering good
growth in core markets across Continental Europe, there
was significant progress during the year in emerging
markets such as Russia, Turkey and Eastern Europe.
Experian also secured its first major client win in India,
ICICI Bank, for behavioural scoring. In Japan, there was a
significant contract win with GE Finance and other
domestic clients, and in China Experian secured a
contract to deliver software solutions and consulting to
ICBC bank, one of China’s leading banks.
Demand for fraud prevention solutions continues to
accelerate with, for example, material new multi-year,
multi-million euro client wins in Spain. 
Marketing Solutions
Includes business strategies, data integrity (QAS) and
other marketing services around the world
Sales increased by 23% in the period, with organic
growth of 9%. There was a 14% contribution from
acquisitions, principally in Business Strategies (FootFall).
Growth reflects high value contract wins by QAS in
Australia and New Zealand, and good progress by
Business Strategies. 
Financial review
Total sales were $591m, up 8% at constant exchange
rates compared to the same period last year. Organic
growth was 7%. 
EBIT was $74m, up 11% at constant exchange rates
from a year ago, giving an EBIT margin of 12.5%
(2006: 12.3%). Margin improvement principally
reflected operating leverage in Decision Analytics from
the growth in sales, and efficiency improvements in the
French bank back office activity, partially offset by
investment in new markets.
Experian central activities
Following the demerger, central activities costs are
expected to be about $52m in a full financial year. 
In the year to 31 March 2007, the reported costs 
of central activities were $47m (2006: $31m).
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 29
12 months to 31 March 2007 2006 Growth
1
Organic
$m $m % growth
1
%
Sales
- Credit Services 450 410 5 4
- Decision Analytics 95 76 21 18
- Marketing Solutions 46 36 23 9
Total EMEA / Asia Pacific 591 522 8 7
EBIT – EMEA / Asia Pacific 74 64 11
EBIT margin 12.5% 12.3%
1
Growth at constant FX rates 
Total EMEA/Asia Pacific sales
were $591 million, up 8% 
at constant exchange rates
$591 m Financial review
30 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Demerger
On 10 October 2006, the separation of Experian Group
Limited and Home Retail Group was completed by way of
demerger. As part of the demerger, Experian Group Limited
became the ultimate holding company of GUS plc. The
demerger transaction has been accounted for in
accordance with the UK GAAP principles of merger
accounting, which are not in conflict with IFRS and reflect
the economic substance of the transaction. The distribution
to GUS plc shareholders of shares in Home Retail Group plc
has been accounted for as a dividend in specie in the
financial statements. In addition the results of Home Retail
Group have been represented as discontinued.
Sales
Group sales from continuing operations grew by 14%
from $3,064m to $3,481m. 
Profit
Benchmark profit before tax for continuing operations
rose by $87m to $714m. The increase in benchmark
profit is largely a result of the 14% increase in sales from
continuing operations. Profit before tax from
discontinued operations decreased by 74% to $228m
principally because the prior year includes a full year of
the Home Retail Group results.
Taxation 
The Group’s effective rate of tax for the year was 22.4%,
based on benchmark profit. This compares to 17.5% 
last year. 
Shareholder return and dividends
Following the demerger and equity issue completed in
October, Experian now has approximately 1,022m
Ordinary shares in issue. The number of shares to be
used for the purposes of calculating basic earnings per
share going forward is 1,006m after deducting own
shares held.
Basic earnings per share were 49.9c in the year to 
31 March 2007. The basic earnings per share for the
prior year of 107.5c includes 59.1c related to
discontinued operations. Benchmark earnings per share
increased to 59.7c from 54.5c last year. The Board has
announced a dividend of 11.5c, giving a dividend of 17c
for the full year. The dividend for the year is covered 3.5
times from benchmark earnings. 
Share price and total shareholder return
On 6 October 2006 shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed
on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed
securities. Trading in shares in Experian Group Limited on
the London Stock Exchange commenced on 11 October
2006. On that day, Experian Group Limited also raised
£800m by way of a share offer at an offer price of 
560p per share.
The share price of Experian ranged from a low of 559.5p
to a high of 631.5p during the period since listing. On 
31 March 2007, the mid market price was 585.5p, giving
a market capitalisation of $11.7bn at that date. 
Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds amount to $2,107m, equivalent to
$2.06 per share, a decrease of $3,347m in the year. This
principally reflects the reduction of net assets following
the demerger of Home Retail Group (decrease of
$5,627m) offset by the proceeds of the equity issue
(increase of $1,441m).
Cash flow and net debt
The Group’s free cash flow before acquisitions,
divestments and dividends was $577m compared with
$574m in 2006. Capital expenditure in 2007 was
$275m, $63m higher than last year. Capital expenditure,
which included accelerated spend of $20m on data
centre consolidation, was equivalent to 121% of the
depreciation charge in 2007. Free cash flow was used to
fund acquisitions of $118m, the purchase of other
financial assets and investment in associates of $42m
and dividends of $401m (principally the final dividend
paid by GUS plc). Cash outflow from exceptional items
amounted to $98m. After proceeds from disposals of
businesses of $258m, net cash inflow for the year was
$176m. Net debt at 31 March 2007 decreased by
$2,029m to $1,408m, down from $3,437m at 
31 March 2006.
Acquisitions
Acquisition expenditure amounted to $118m, including
deferred and contingent consideration on prior year
acquisitions. 
Liquidity and funding
The maturity, currency and interest rate profile of the
Group’s borrowings are shown in note 26 to the financial
statements. The maturity profile is spread over the next
seven years, to avoid excessive concentration of re-
financing needs. At 31 March 2007 undrawn committed
borrowing facilities totalled $2,450m.
Treasury and risk management
The Group’s Treasury function seeks to reduce
exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and
other financial risks, to ensure sufficient
liquidity is available to meet foreseeable
needs and to invest cash assets safely and
profitably. It does not operate as a profit
centre and transacts only in relation to
underlying business requirements. It
operates policies and procedures which
are periodically reviewed and approved
by the Board and are subject to regular
Group Internal Audit reviews.
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
£800m
At the time of the
demerger, Experian 
raised £800 million to
support future 
growth initiatives Experian Annual Report 2007 | 31
2007 2006
Group cash flow $m $m
EBIT for continuing operations 825 727 
Depreciation 237 204 
Capital expenditure (275) (212)
Change in working capital 5 (12)
Retained in associate (22) (20)
Share option charge within benchmark profit 34 30 
Operating cash flow 804 717 
Interest (106) (111)
Corporation tax (121) (32)
Free cash flow 577 574 
Net cash outflow from exceptionals (98) (7)
Acquisitions (118) (1,420)
Purchase of other financial assets and investment in associates (42) (41)
Disposal of subsidiary 258 643 
Dividends (401) (508)
Net cash flow 176 (759)
Foreign exchange movements 166 (20)
Other investing related cash flows 121  618 
Movement in cash and cash equivalents (continuing) 463 (161)
Net debt flow of discontinued activities 32 (188)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents 495 (349)
Currency risk management 
The Group’s reported profit can be significantly affected by
currency movements. In the year to 31 March 2007
approximately 35% of the Group’s EBIT from continuing
operations was earned in currencies other than the 
US dollar. In order to reduce the impact of currency
fluctuations on the value of investments in overseas
countries, the Group has a policy of borrowing in Sterling
and Euros, as well as in US dollars, and of entering into
forward foreign exchange contracts in its key overseas
currencies. The Group’s principal borrowings were
originally undertaken in Sterling. During the year ended 31
March 2007, the Group continued to enter into forward
foreign exchange contracts to sell the US dollar and the
Euro against Sterling. Additionally, the Group has a policy
of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by
entering into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk management 
The Group’s interest rate exposure is managed by the use
of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of
interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and
floating rate liabilities. The Group also spreads the
duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of
interest rate fluctuations.
Credit risk
The Group‘s exposure to credit risk is managed by
dealing only with banks and financial institutions with
strong credit ratings, within limits set for each
organisation. Dealing activity is closely controlled and
counter-party positions are monitored regularly.
Interest costs
At $146m net finance costs were $44m lower than last
year. The changes in capital structure resulting from the
settling of intra-group lending prior to the demerger, the
demerger itself and the IPO mean that the prior year’s
interest cost is not comparable with the current year’s.
The reported net interest line benefits from a credit to
interest of $16m relating to the excess of the expected
return on pension assets over the interest on pension
liabilities (2006: $9m).
At 31 March 2007, Experian had net debt of $1,408m,
including the net proceeds from the equity issue in 
October 2006 of $1,441m.
Assuming the $1.4bn equity had been raised at 1 April
2006, the pro forma net interest expense would have been
$65m (H1: $30m; H2: $35m), including a similar 
pension credit.
For the year to March 2008, Experian expects a net interest
expense, including the pension credit, in the region of
$70m, based on acquistion spend since the year-end and
forecast cash flows. 32 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Financial review cont.
Exceptional items
The only costs treated as exceptional items are those
associated with the disposal, demerger or closure of
businesses. All other restructuring costs have been
charged against EBIT in the divisions in which they were
incurred.
The exceptional items during the year were costs incurred
relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail
Group, the charge on early vesting and modification of
share awards at demerger, costs incurred in the closure
of UK Account Processing and a gain arising in an
associate from partial disposal of its subsidiary. 
Other adjustment items
IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible
assets are identified and recognised separately from
goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic
lives. These include items such as brand names and
customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time
of acquisition. The Group has excluded amortisation of
these acquisition intangibles from its definition of
Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on
uncertain judgements about their value and economic life.
A goodwill adjustment of $14m arose in accordance with
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ following the recognition
of a benefit in respect of previously unrecognised tax
losses relating to prior year acquisitions. The
corresponding tax benefit reduces the tax charge in 
the year by $14m.
Charges in respect of demerger-related equity incentive
plans relate to one-off grants made to senior
management and all other staff levels at the time of
demerger under a number of equity incentive plans. The
cost of these one-off grants will be charged to the Group
income statement over the five years following the
demerger, but excluded from the definition of
Benchmark PBT. The cost of all other grants will be
charged to the Group income statement and will be
included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Group’s derivatives is ineligible for
hedge accounting under IFRS. Gains or losses on these
derivatives arising from market movements are charged
or credited to the income statement. In the year to 
31 March 2007 this amounted to a charge of 
$35m (2006: $2m).
Pensions 
Note 24 to the financial statements shows the
assumptions used (including mortality assumptions)
together with the other disclosures required in
accordance with IAS 19.
At 31 March 2007 the Group has a net surplus for all
retirement benefit schemes on an IAS 19 basis of 
$85m (2006: $31m). 
Accounting policies and standards
The principal accounting policies used by the Group are
shown in note 2 to the financial statements. 
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Exceptional items and other non-GAAP measures
2007 2006
$m $m
Exceptional items
Continuing operations:
Charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at demerger 
of Experian and Home Retail Group 23 -
Other costs incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 126 7
Costs incurred in the closure of UK Account Processing 26 -
Loss on disposal of businesses 2 -
Gain arising in associate on the partial disposal of its subsidiary (15) -
Total exceptional items 162 7
Other non-GAAP measures
Continuing operations:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 76 66
Goodwill adjustment 14 -
Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 24 -
Financing fair value remeasurements 35 2
Total other non-GAAP measures 149 68 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 33
Use of non-GAAP measures 
Experian has identified certain measures that it believes
provide additional useful information on the performance
of the Group. As the measures are not defined under
IFRS they may not be directly comparable with other
companies‘ adjusted measures. The non-GAAP measures
are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to,
any IFRS measures of performance. Certain non-GAAP
measures identified by the Group are shown in note 2 to
the financial statements. Further non-GAAP measures
and reconciliations of those measures are set out below.
Discontinuing activities: Experian defines discontinuing
activities as businesses sold, closed or identified for
closure during a financial year. These are treated as
discontinuing activities for both sales and EBIT purposes.
Prior periods, where shown, are restated to exclude the
results on discontinuing activities. This financial measure
differs from the definition of discontinued operations set
out in IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets held for sale and
discontinued operations’. Under IFRS 5, a discontinued
operation is: (i) a separate major line of business or
geographical area of operations; (ii) part of a single plan
to dispose of a major line of business or geographical
area of operations; or (iii) a subsidiary acquired exclusively
with a view to resale.
Continuing activities: Businesses trading at 31 March
2007 that have not been disclosed as discontinuing
activities are treated as continuing activities.
Organic growth: This is the year-on-year change in
continuing activities sales, at constant exchange rates,
excluding acquisitions (other than affiliate credit bureaux)
until the first anniversary date of consolidation.
Direct business: Direct business refers to Experian’s
business exclusive of financial results of FARES.
Reconciliation of sales and EBIT by geography
12 months to 31 March 2007 2006
Continuing Discontinuing Total Continuing Discontinuing Total
activities activities activities activities
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Sales
Americas 1,990 4 1,994 1,731 73 1,804
UK & Ireland 843 64 907 677 81 758
EMEA/Asia Pacific 591 - 591 522 - 522
Total sales 3,424 68 3,492 2,930 154 3,084
EBIT
Americas – direct business 508 (7) 501 404 6 410
FARES 61 - 61 69 - 69
Total Americas 569 (7) 562 473 6 479
UK & Ireland 221 24 245 179 36 215
UK & Ireland restructuring charge (8) - (8) - - -
EMEA/Asia Pacific 74 - 74 64 - 64
Central activities (47) - (47) (31) - (31)
Total EBIT 808 17 825 685 42 727
Net interest (111) (100)
Benchmark PBT 714 627
Exceptional items (162) (7)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (76) (66)
Goodwill adjustment (14) -
Charges for demerger-related equity incentive plans (24) -
Financing fair value remeasurements (35) (2)
Tax expense of associates (9) (2)
Profit before tax 394 550 34 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Financial review cont.
Reconciliation of sales and EBIT by business segment
12 months to 31 March 2007 2006 Total Organic
$m $m growth
4
growth
4
Sales
Credit Services 1,520 1,420 4% 3%
Decision Analytics 392 325 16% 15%
Marketing Solutions 728 627 13% -
Interactive 784 558 40% 23%
Total – continuing activities 3,424 2,930 14% 8%
Discontinuing activities
1
68 154 na
Total 3,4923,08411%
EBIT
Credit Services 
Direct business 420 371 11%
FARES 61 69 (11%)
Total Credit Services 482 440 8%
Decision Analytics 136 102 27%
Marketing Solutions 73 57 24%
Restructuring charge (8) - na
Total Marketing Solutions 65 57 10%
Interactive 173 117 50%
Central activities (47) (31) na
Total – continuing activities 808 685 16%
Discontinuing activities
1
17 42 na
Total 82572711%
EBIT margin
Credit Services – direct business 27.6% 26.1%
Decision Analytics 34.7% 31.5%
Marketing Solutions
2
10.0% 9.1%
Interactive 22.1% 21.0%
Total EBIT margin
3
21.8% 21.0%
1 Discontinuing activities include MetaReward and UK account processing  
2 Total EBIT margin for continuing direct business only, excludes FARES, includes restructuring charge and central activities 
3 EBIT margin is for continuing direct business only, excluding FARES
4 Growth at constant FX rates
Basis of preparation for pro forma 
interest calculations
Equity proceeds
At demerger Experian raised £800m of new equity.  For
the purposes of preparing pro forma results, net interest
has been calculated to illustrate the impact on Group
financial performance as if this equity had been issued at
1 April 2006.  The financial impact of this is a credit to
interest of $37m.
Management of bank balances
In the period prior to demerger, bank balances were
managed centrally on a pooled basis in accordance with
the normal treasury arrangements in groups of
companies. Home Retail Group companies held bank
balances in the pool and interest thereon is reported
within discontinued activities. Experian will continue to
use pooling arrangements but the arrangements prior to
demerger result in an increase in the reported interest
cost for the year for continuing operations of $9m.
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements Experian Annual Report 2007   | 35
Risks and uncertainties
As described under corporate
objectives and strategy on page 19,
Experian’s vision is that our people,
data and technology become a
necessary part of every major
consumer economy around the world.
The major potential risks to achieving
this are either specific to Experian, such
as information security, or more
general such as the impact of
competition. Risks to Experian are
anticipated and regularly assessed and
our internal controls are enhanced
where necessary to ensure that such
risks are appropriately mitigated.
We have identified the following major potential risks.
Specific risks for Experian
People
Experian is dependent upon highly skilled personnel,
especially our senior management and other experienced
staff. Loss of these people could have an adverse effect on
our ability to deliver our corporate objectives. We aim to
provide compensation and benefits that are competitive with
other leading companies, as well as fulfilling future career
opportunities.
Data
The data that Experian holds may be inappropriately used.
Experian has established rigorous information security
policies, standards, procedures, recruitment and training
schemes, which are embedded throughout our business
operations. We also screen new third party partners carefully
and conduct targeted audits on their operations. The loss
and/or potential misuse of consumer data is addressed both
procedurally through continued investment in IT security
infrastructure, including the significant use of data and
communications encryption technology around the world.
Legislation or government regulations may alter what data
Experian can collect and how we collect it. To the best of
our knowledge, we are in compliance with data protection
requirements in the jurisdictions in which Experian operates.
We actively monitor our collection and use of personal data,
while our legal, regulatory and government affairs
departments work closely with senior management to adopt
strategies to educate lawmakers and influence the public
policy debate where appropriate around the world.  
Technology
There could be security breaches of Experian’s systems
and processes or our systems could fail. Our data centres
are protected against damage from fire, power loss,
telecommunications failure, natural disaster, hardware or
software malfunction, computer viruses or other purposeful
attacks, such as physical break-ins or hacking. To mitigate
the risk from insecure or unreliable IT systems, we maintain
off-site copies of all information contained in databases, run
back-up data centres, have established support
arrangements with third party vendors and have strict
standards, procedures and training schemes for technology
services, physical security, information security and business
continuity.
Other risks
Experian could face increased competition, especially in
the credit reporting industry. We mitigate this risk through
continued research and investment in people, technology
and products as prioritised by our strategic plan.
There may be consolidation among Experian’s clients,
which may cause price compression and a reduction in
our sales and profits. However, no single client accounts for
more than 3% of our sales, which reduces the probability of
this potential risk having a significant impact on us.
Acquisitions may not meet expectations. We assess all
acquisitions rigorously using both in-house expertise and
that of professional advisors.
There may be an economic downturn in one of Experian’s
major markets, which impacts the demand for consumer
credit in particular. As described on page 16, the breadth of
Experian’s portfolio by product, by geography, by sector and
by client partly mitigates the impact of this risk.
The outcome of litigation could be unfavourable to
Experian. We carry insurance cover against such risks and
employ numerous expert legal personnel in-house and
retain the services of several leading legal practices around
the world to assist in the effective management and
disposal of legal proceedings.  
Experian could fail to protect adequately its valuable
intellectual property rights or face claims for intellectual
property right infringement. Experian seeks patent
protection and appropriate agreements regarding its
intellectual property rights where appropriate and feasible
and continues to monitor this situation. 
Further discussion of risks facing Experian can be found in
the prospectus for the global offer, dated 14 September
2006, which is available on our website at
www.experiangroup.com. 36 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Corporate responsibilities
Strategy and definition
Experian is a fast growing business and financial success
is a key measure of that growth. However we don’t exist
in a vacuum. By measuring ourselves against other
societal impacts and targeting ourselves to improve we
can ensure we have a sustainable business and that we
maintain and improve societies’ understanding and
respect for what we do.
Since our listing as an independent company on 11
October 2006, we have undertaken a review of our
wider responsibilities, consulting relevant people within
the business and drawing on external evaluations from
analysts and commentators. As a result we have chosen
six essential responsibilities to provide the framework and
direction for our work:
We believe we have a responsibility to:
1 Use and protect data properly, respecting all the
relevant laws, helping evolve industry guidelines and
new legislation and ensuring a culture of setting and
complying with the highest standards of integrity.
2 Create social and economic benefit through our
products services and capabilities, balancing
commercial benefit with consumers’ rights and needs. 
3 Inform and empower consumers and ensure that those
who interact directly with our company receive fair and
honest treatment.
4 Be a good employer to all, establishing a set of
expected behaviours and values, ensuring that
everyone working for us is treated fairly, given the
maximum opportunity to fulfil their potential and that
all our workplaces are safe and healthy.
5 Minimise as far as possible the environmental impacts
associated with our business and enable employee
participation, with a particular concentration on the
reduction of energy use and its effect on global warming.
6 Play an active part in social and economic regeneration
in our communities, be they local, national or global.
Discharging these six responsibilities effectively helps
reduce risk and presents us with opportunities. In
essence, we think that taking proper account of social
issues makes us a better business in the long term. We
are committed to dialogue, transparency and the need
for good quality benchmarks and indicators of our non-
financial performance. 
Management and accountability
This year we appointed a Group Company Secretary,
Charles Brown, and gave him overall responsibility for
Corporate Responsibility (CR), ensuring that it features
regularly on the Board agenda. The Board’s first action
has been to approve an outline strategy in early 2007,
based on the six responsibilities above.
We have appointed a Head of
Global CR, reporting to Charles
Brown, to direct and co-ordinate
efforts across the Group. Experian is
structured into regional businesses, each
of which has appointed a CR management
champion. These champions will meet regularly
chaired by the Company Secretary and led by the Head
of Global CR, to give strategic input and direction. They
will consider risks and opportunities and ways in which
we can embed social considerations into our everyday
decision-making processes. There is also a small network
of CR co-ordinators who are the principal contacts for
the Head of Global CR to share information about
relevant risks and opportunities, develop initiatives and
report performance.
Experian is currently listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
We have produced a comprehensive CR Report online
(accessible via the Company website and at
www.experiancrreport.com). The following sections
present a summary from that document.
Performance during 2007
Data management- using and protecting data properly:
Experian has established a lead position as the trusted
steward of sensitive consumer data. We have an
obligation to protect and secure data from wrongful
access or misuse. We have dedicated Compliance and
Information Security teams who have overall
responsibility for ensuring a culture of awareness and
compliance within the business. In the past year, these
teams have improved physical security measures and our
management of digital identity and access to our
systems, as well as gaining ISO international certification.
More widely, we have undertaken a general programme
of employee education including defining a new global
policy and have taken the lead in industry-wide initiatives
regarding the safe transfer of data.
Products and services – social benefits of our services:
Experian plays an important role in maintaining a healthy
economy, and many of our core products have strong
social benefits. For example we are a leading player in
reducing fraud, in helping lenders and individuals avoid
over-indebtedness, reducing junk mail and ensuring those
in need are targeted to receive state aid. Activities in the
past year have included:
• Development of our predictive tools to ensure lenders
can pick up the very early signs of over-indebtedness.
• Establishing a Victims of Fraud service to support those
whose identities have been transgressed.
• Launching tools to directly help consumers better
understand how their behaviour affects their 
credit rating. 
Introduction | Business review |  Governance |  Financial statements
6
We have chosen six
essential responsibilities
to provide the
framework and direction
for our CR programme Experian Annual Report 2007 | 37
Experian’s community investment
Cash donations from Experian $729,000
Value of employee time volunteered $157,000
Value of gifts in kind $332,000
Community management costs $222,000
Total from Experian $1,440,000
Employee fundraising $212,000
GUS Trust Donations $517,000
Total value including funding 
given by others $2,169,000
Consumers – informing and empowering consumers: 
During the last year, Experian had over 25 million direct
contacts with consumers. Over half of these interactions
were providing consumers with access to their data on file,
allowing them to test, challenge or amend it where
appropriate. This type of access is a key part of data
protection legislation in many countries, and we aim to
ensure that we comply fully and wholeheartedly. 
However, we aim to go much further in our work with
consumers. We take very seriously the need to educate
people more widely, particularly about the credit granting
process and how to make it work for them. We play a
leadership role in national organisations with a remit for
promoting financial education, especially with the young.
Training the trainers is a special focus. In the US we have
led a national campaign to ensure personal finance skills
are taught in schools and this year gave considerable input
to a specific programme of financial education in Texas
high schools.
The Experian businesses that market directly to consumers
have extended the frequency and reach of customer
satisfaction surveys and have monitored and improved their
online accessibility.
Employment practice - being a good employer: Experian
employs more than 13,000 people in 36 countries around
the world. Recruiting, motivating and retaining the best
colleagues is an essential part of our competitive edge. To
ensure a fair and professional workplace we have a range
of employment policies covering issues such as equal
opportunities, business ethics, bullying and harassment
and whistle-blowing. This year we initiated a brand
development programme, which includes the development
of a consistent system of values and behaviours for
employees. We invest heavily in training and development,
this year delivering more online and computer based
training than in any previous point in our history.
Environmental impact - minimising our carbon footprint
and waste: Our most significant environmental impact is
the use of energy in our buildings, and the emissions of
CO2 that come from it. While the amount of energy we
use relative to our size may be low, we believe that all
companies have a responsibility to play their part in
meeting the challenge of climate change. We have
measured our carbon footprint as approximately 64,000
tonnes in 2007 (the final, verified figure can be found in
our online report: www.experiancrreport.com). Our
emissions from buildings have fallen this year as our
Nottingham sites, which house more than 2,000 people,
arranged to purchase all their electricity needs from
renewable sources and our four major sites in the US
replaced inefficient heat pumps and chillers, installed
energy saving light bulbs, reduced night time temperature
controls and controlled lighting with motion detectors
and timers. 
Community - social and economic regeneration: We have
a strong history of community involvement on both sides
of the Atlantic. In the last year Experian invested $1.44m
into community programmes and charitable causes and,
with the addition of funds from the GUS Trust and the
funds raised by employees, this rose to $2.169m, with a
breakdown as shown in the chart below. These funds
enabled a huge range of opportunities for Experian’s
people to make a real contribution to the life of their
local communities and often allowed the organisations
we worked with to leverage considerably more funding
from other sources.
This year saw us launch a new US-UK collaborative
project, involving seven schools from the US and UK.
Students in each school created a set of Christmas card
designs to be used by Experian, at the same time raising
funds for charity Save the Children. A spin off from the
project is an electronic pen pal scheme between the
schools, which we have facilitated via a secure 
online environment.
We also define our ‘community’ more widely. As a
responsible member of the business and finance
community, we have sponsored the UK National Debtline
and the Citizens Advice service and the Money Advice
service in Scotland. In the US we support Call for Action
and the National Consumer’s League of Identity 
Theft Hotline. 38 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Board of directors
Executive directors
John Peace (58)
Chairman
John Peace began his career in 1970 at the
former GUS plc, where he held several
senior IT management positions before co-
founding CCN in 1980. This was the
company formed by GUS to market
information services to retailers and other
lending organisations. In 1991, he was
appointed Chief Executive of CCN, which
was by then one of Europe’s largest
information services companies. During the
mid-nineties, CCN was combined with a
number of other US and European
businesses to form a global information
services organisation called Experian, with
John Peace as its Chief Executive worldwide.
John Peace joined the Board of the former
GUS plc in 1997, becoming Group Chief
Executive in January 2000. In June 2002, 
he was appointed Chairman of Burberry
Group plc, in advance of its partial flotation
by GUS in July 2002. John Peace is also
Chairman of the Board of Governors of
Nottingham Trent University, Deputy
Chairman of Standard Chartered with effect
from 1 August 2007 and a Fellow of the
Royal Society of Arts.
Don Robert (48)
Chief Executive Officer
Don Robert graduated from Oregon State
University with a degree in Business
Administration. He began his career with
U.S. Bancorp, a multi-state bank holding
company, where he held positions of
increasing responsibility over 15 years. From
there he joined Credco, Inc., the largest
specialist credit reporting company in the
US, as President. In 1995, Credco was
acquired by First American Corporation and
over the next six years Don Robert held
positions as Executive Vice President of
Mortgage Origination Services and President
of First American’s Consumer Information
and Services Group. In 2001, Don Robert
joined Experian from First American,
becoming Chief Executive Officer of Experian
North America in December 2002. In
February 2005, he took responsibility for
Experian globally as Chief Executive Officer
of Experian Group. Don Robert joined the
Board of the former GUS plc in April 2005.
His other business appointments include
Director of First Advantage Corporation,
member of the Chapman University Board of
Counsellors and past Chairman of the
Consumer Data Industry Association.
Paul Brooks (53)
Chief Financial Officer
Paul Brooks graduated from Cambridge
University with an economics degree and
went on to qualify as a Chartered
Accountant with KPMG. He then joined ICI
where he worked for the Plastics Division in
Brussels and Corporate Reporting Group in
London. After five years with GKN‘s
Industrial Services Division, mostly spent as
Divisional CFO in the USA, Paul Brooks
joined Inchcape, latterly as Inchcape
Marketing Services Finance Director, based in
Singapore. He joined Experian in April 1999
as Finance Director of Experian International
and was appointed Global Chief Financial
Officer in October 2001.
Laurence Danon (51)
Non-Executive Director
Laurence Danon was the President and CEO
of Printemps SA, the French department
store chain, until January 2007. She led the
buyout of Printemps from PPR, Europe’s
largest non-food retailer, in 2006. Prior to
Printemps, Laurence held various senior roles
at Total Fina Elf. She began her career
working for the French Government. She is a 
Non-Executive Director of Diageo Plc and 
Plastic Omnium SA.
Fabiola Arredondo (40)
Non-Executive Director
Fabiola Arredondo is the Managing Partner
of Siempre Holdings, a private investment
firm based in the US. Prior to this she held
senior operating positions at Yahoo!, the
BBC, and Bertelsmann A.G. She is currently
a Non-Executive Director of Bankinter, S.A.,
the World Wildlife Fund, and Sesame
Workshop, and was formerly a Non-
Executive Director of BOC Group plc and
Intelsat Corporation. Fabiola has a BA
degree from Stanford University, and an
MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Roger Davis (50)
Non-Executive Director
Roger Davis spent some eight years at
Barclays, latterly as the CEO of the 45,000
strong UK Banking operation and as a
member of the Board of Barclays Plc. Prior to
that he spent some ten years in investment
banking in London and in various positions
in Asia for Flemings and later BZW. Roger is
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive directors
Introduction | Business review  |  Governance |  Financial statements Experian Annual Report 2007 | 39
Company Secretary
Charles Brown FCIS
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Registered office
22 Grenville Street
St Helier
Jersey
JE4 8PX
Registered No. 93905
Registrars
Lloyds TSB (Jersey) Services Limited
PO Box 63
11-12 Esplanade
St Helier
Jersey
JE4 8PH
Audit Committee
Alan Jebson (Chairman)
Fabiola Arredondo
Laurence Danon
Roger Davis
Sean FitzPatrick
Sir Alan Rudge
David Tyler
Remuneration Committee
Roger Davis (Chairman)
Fabiola Arredondo
Laurence Danon
Sean FitzPatrick
Sir Alan Rudge
David Tyler
Nomination Committee
John Peace (Chairman)
Fabiola Arredondo
Laurence Danon
Roger Davis
Sean FitzPatrick
Don Robert
Sir Alan Rudge
David Tyler
Sir Alan Rudge (69)
Non-Executive Director
Sir Alan Rudge was Deputy Chief Executive
of BT until November 1997 and Chairman of
WS Atkins until March 2001. He joined the
Board of the former GUS plc in 1997 and
until March 2005 was President of CELTEL
International BV and a Non-Executive
Director on the Board of SESA AG. He is
currently Chairman of the ERA Foundation
Ltd and Pro Chancellor of Surrey University.
Sir Alan is the Senior Independent Director
of Experian. He has a PhD in Electrical
Engineering and is a Fellow of the Royal
Society and the Royal Academy of
Engineering. He is a past President of the
Institution of Electrical Engineers and past
Chairman of the Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council.
David Tyler (54)
Non-Executive Director
David Tyler graduated in 1974 from
Cambridge University, where he read
Economics. Following 11 years with Unilever,
he joined County NatWest where he held a
number of senior financial control roles. He
then worked for Christie’s International from
1989 to 1996 as Finance Director and as
President of Christie’s America. David Tyler
was Group Finance Director of the former
GUS plc from February 1997 until its
demerger in October 2006. He is now a
Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc
and Reckitt Benckiser plc. He is a Fellow of
the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants and a Member of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers. 
Non-executive directors
Alan Jebson (57)
Non-Executive Director
Alan Jebson retired in May 2006 as Group
Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings
Plc, a position that included responsibility for
IT and Global Resourcing. During a long
career with HSBC, Alan held various
positions in IT, including the position of
Group CIO. His roles included responsibility
for the Group‘s international systems,
including the consolidation of HSBC and
Midland systems following the acquisition of
Midland Bank in 1993. He is a Non-Executive
Director of Vodafone Group Plc and of
McDonald Dettweiler in Canada. Alan is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales and is 
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Sean FitzPatrick (58)
Non-Executive Director
Sean FitzPatrick is currently non-executive
Chairman of Anglo Irish Bank Corporation
plc, having retired as CEO of that
organisation in January 2005. He is also the
Non-Executive Chairman of Smurfit Kappa
PLC, a past President of the Irish Bankers
Federation and a Non-Executive Director of
Aer Lingus Group plc and Greencore Group
plc. Sean is a Chartered Accountant. The directors present their report and the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Demerger
On 10 October 2006, GUS plc (now called Experian
Finance plc) separated its Experian business from its Home
Retail Group business by way of demerger. As part of the
demerger, Experian Group Limited became the ultimate
holding company of GUS plc and related subsidiaries and
shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock
Exchange on 6 October 2006. Experian Group Limited
was incorporated and registered on 30 June 2006 under
the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 as a public company
limited by shares. Shares in Experian Group Limited were
admitted to the UK Listing Authority’s Official List and
trading on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed
securities commenced on 11 October 2006.
Principal activities and business review
Experian is a global leader in providing information
solutions to business clients and consumers. It helps
organisations to find new customers and develop and
manage existing relationships by providing data, decision
making solutions and processing services. It also helps
consumers to understand, manage and protect their
personal information and make more informed purchase
decisions. A review of the results for the year and an
indication of future developments appear on pages 16 to
37. Research and development investment has been a
high priority for Experian in driving growth, particularly in
relation to product development. Research expenditure
totalled $5m during the year to 31 March 2007 (and the
amount charged to the Group income statement in the
year was $5m).
Profit and dividends
The Group income statement on page 60 shows a profit
for the financial year to 31 March 2007 of $463m. The
directors have announced the payment of a second
interim dividend of 11.5 US cents per ordinary share to be
paid on 27 July 2007 to shareholders on the register on
29 June 2007. An interim dividend of 5.5 US cents per
ordinary share was paid on 2 February 2007 giving a total
dividend for the year of 17.0 US cents per ordinary share.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the directors are
shown on pages 38 and 39. Particulars of directors’
remuneration, service contracts and their interests in the
Ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the report
on directors’ remuneration on pages 47 to 58. There were
no changes in the directors’ interests in the Company’s
Ordinary shares between the end of the financial year 
and 22 May 2007.
Geoffrey Moore and Stephen Ranalow, the directors on
incorporation of the Company on 30 June 2006, resigned
on 6 July 2006. John Peace, Paul Brooks, Don Robert and
David Tyler were appointed directors on 6 July 2006 and
Sir Alan Rudge was appointed on 6 September 2006.
Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger Davis and
Alan Jebson joined the Board on 1 January 2007. Sean
FitzPatrick was appointed to the Board with effect from
1 April 2007.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,
all the directors retire at this year’s Annual General
Meeting, being the first annual general meeting after their
appointment. Each of them, being eligible, offer
themselves for election. The Board proposes to carry out
the first formal evaluation of its performance, its
committees and its members during the year ending 31
March 2008. In the meantime the Board is satisfied that
the performance, contribution and commitment of the
directors is such that they merit election. Any director who
is so elected will retire at least every three years and
unless he or she has agreed to retire, he or she shall be
eligible for re-election.
During the year, the Company maintained liability
insurance and third party indemnification provisions for its
directors and officers.
Acquisitions
The Group made a number of acquisitions in the year
under review, details of which are included in note 30 to
the financial statements on page 110.
On 19 April 2007 the Company announced its intention,
subject to regulatory approval, to acquire Hitwise, a
leading internet marketing intelligence company for
$240m. The Company announced the acquisitions of
Emailing Solution, a leading French permission-based
email marketing company, and the Tallyman collections
management software business from Talgentra, a
software solutions company, on 3 May 2007 and 11 May
2007 respectively.
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 22 May 2007, the Company had been notified of
the following interests in its issued ordinary share capital
or voting rights:
40 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Directors’ report
Percentage of
Direct/ Number of issued share
Date of indirect ordinary shares/ capital/voting
Notification Shareholder interest (i) voting rights (i) rights (i)
5 February 2007 Legal and General Direct 51,238,042 5.01%
Group plc 
(i) Until 20 January 2007, substantial shareholders were required to notify their interests in
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and, thereafter, following
implementation of the EU Transparency Directive effected by the Financial Services
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules, also their voting rights in accordance with
those rules.
Save for the above, no person has notified any interest of
3 per cent or more or any non-material interest equal to
or more than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share
capital or in the voting rights of the Company.
  Share capital
Details of changes to the Company’s ordinary share capital
in the period to 31 March 2007 are set out in note J to
the Company’s financial statements on page 127.
Own shares
The existing authority for the Company to purchase its
own shares, which expires at the end of this year’s Annual
General Meeting, was given at an Extraordinary General
Meeting held on 13 September 2006 and permitted the
Company to purchase, in the market, up to 149,900,000
of its own shares. Details of the new authority being
requested are contained in the accompanying circular to
shareholders. There is no concept of treasury shares under
Jersey company law and therefore the Company would
cancel any shares it buys back under this authority.
The Company did not utilise this authority to make any
purchases of its own shares during the period under
review.
Details of the shares in the Company held under the GUS
ESOP Trust, the Experian Group Limited Employee Share
Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan
Trust are set out in note K to the Company’s financial
statements on page 128.
Donations
During the period the Group donated $0.7m to charitable
causes. Funds from the GUS Trust dispersed through
Experian during the year totalled $0.5m.
In addition to cash contributions, the Group’s employees
are encouraged to give their time and skills for the benefit
of a variety of charitable causes. 
During the year the Group made no EU political
donations.
Employment of people with disabilities
People with disabilities, whether registered or not, have
equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due
regard to their aptitudes and abilities. In addition to
complying with legislative requirements, procedures are in
place to ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated
and that their training and career development needs are
carefully managed. For those employees becoming
disabled during the course of their employment, the
Group is supportive, whether through retraining or
redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them
to remain with the Group.
Employee involvement
The Group is intent on motivating and keeping staff
informed on matters that concern them in the context of
their employment and involve them through local
consultative procedures. Where there are recognition
agreements with trade unions, the consultation process is
established through national and local trade union
representatives and through joint consultation
committees. Information on matters of concern to
employees and about the financial and economic factors
affecting the Group’s performance is also disseminated
through management channels, conferences, meetings,
publications and internet sites. 
Employees are actively encouraged to become
shareholders in Experian through the provision of Save As
You Earn and other All Employee share plan arrangements
which are intended to align the interests of employees
with those of shareholders.
Creditor payment
For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to:-
• Agree and confirm the terms of payment at the
commencement of business with that supplier;
• Pay in accordance with any contract agreed with the
supplier or as required by law; and
• Review continually the payment procedures and liaise
with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and
maintaining a good working relationship. 
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2007 were 36
days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the
end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year
by trade creditors. The Company has no trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting
The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be
held at the Four Seasons Hotel, Simmonscourt Road,
Dublin 4, Ireland at 9.30 am on Wednesday, 18 July 2007.
Shareholders who are unable to attend in person may
watch a web broadcast of the event on the Group’s
website: www.experiangroup.com and may
submit questions beforehand via email to
agmquestions@experiangroup.com or on the prepaid card
sent to shareholders. The questions will be addressed at
the meeting, via the website or individually as appropriate.
The notice of meeting is included in a separate circular to
shareholders which accompanies this annual report. It is
also available on the Group’s website:
www.experiangroup.com.
Auditors
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , were
appointed by the Board on 6 July 2006 and have
indicated their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Corporate Headquarters:
Charles Brown Newenham House
Company Secretary Northern Cross
22 May 2007 Malahide Road
Dublin 17
Registered Office:
22 Grenville Street
St Helier
Jersey JE4 8PX
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 41 Combined Code
The Board of Experian is responsible for the Group’s
system of corporate governance. The Board is committed
to good governance and to maintaining the highest
standards of integrity in all the Group’s activities. This
statement describes how the Company has applied the
main and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by
the UK Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and
amended in July 2006 (the “Code”). Experian complied
with the Code’s provisions throughout the period from
listing on 11 October 2006 until 31 March 2007 except
that: (1) John Peace did not meet fully the independence
criteria set out in the Code on his appointment as
Chairman, (2) the Board and its committees did not for
the whole period comply with the requirements in respect
of the number of independent non-executive directors,
and (3) no formal evaluation of the Board’s performance
or that of its committees or individual directors’
performance was undertaken. These matters are
explained later in this statement.
The Board
At the date of this report, the Board consists of a
Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Financial
Officer and seven non-executive directors. The names and
biographical details of the directors are shown on pages
38 and 39 of this report. 
The Chairman, John Peace, did not meet fully the
independence criteria set out in the Code on his
appointment as he was previously the Group Chief
Executive of GUS plc. The nomination committee of GUS
plc which recommended his appointment was strongly of
the opinion that his appointment was in the best interests
of Experian and its shareholders in view of his unrivalled
experience of Experian’s business and markets and the
need for the Chairman to have a close working
relationship with Experian’s Chief Executive Officer and its
experienced global management team. As a consequence,
the position was not openly advertised and external
search consultants were not instructed. The Board of
Experian endorses this view.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks remained Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Experian respectively
following demerger also on the recommendation of the
nomination committee of GUS plc. Mr Robert served on
the Board of GUS plc. They both had extensive knowledge
and experience of the businesses from the period prior to
the demerger in October 2006 and had demonstrated
exceptional skills and leadership in their current roles.
Six of the seven non-executive directors are determined by
the Board to be independent in character and judgment
with no relationships or circumstances which could affect,
or appear to affect, their judgment. David Tyler was the
Group Finance Director of GUS plc and so is not
considered independent. The non-executive directors are
appointed for three-year renewable terms. Sir Alan Rudge
is the senior independent director. Four of the
independent non-executive directors were appointed with
effect from 1 January 2007 and a fifth was appointed
with effect from 1 April 2007. The Company therefore
complied with the Code’s requirement that not less than
half the Board (excluding the Chairman) comprise
independent non-executive directors from 1 January 2007
onwards.
The Board plans to have six scheduled meetings each year
and may meet more frequently as required. It had three
scheduled meetings and one ad-hoc meeting in the
period from listing until 31 March 2007. One of these
meetings took place in Costa Mesa in California,
otherwise they were held in Dublin, Ireland. It is inevitable
that there will be occasions when circumstances arise to
prevent directors from attending meetings. In such
circumstances, the usual practice is for the absent director
to review the Board papers and convey any views on
specific issues to the Chairman. The time commitment
expected of non-executive directors is not restricted to
Board and Committee meetings. They are available for
consultation on specific issues falling within their
particular fields of expertise and additional time is spent
visiting the Group’s businesses and meeting informally
with the Chairman and executive directors. Together the
non-executive directors bring an objective viewpoint and
range of experience to the Company which ensures that
no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate
the Board’s decision making.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved
to the Board for decision. The Board establishes overall
Group strategy, approves the Group’s operating budget
and monitors performance through the receipt of monthly
reports and management accounts. The approval of
significant acquisitions and divestments is a matter
reserved for the Board although it delegates to the Boards
of the Company’s principal operating subsidiaries the
responsibility for approving smaller acquisitions and
disposals. The monetary limits of such delegations are
formally documented and the exercise of such delegated
authorities are reported to the Board at each of its
meetings. There are also authority levels covering capital
expenditure which can be exercised by the Boards of the
Company’s principal operating subsidiaries. Beyond these
levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for
approval. Other matters reserved for the Board include:
• Approval of interim and annual financial statements.
• Treasury policies.
• Internal controls and risk management.
• Succession planning.
• Corporate responsibility.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and
the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in
writing and agreed by the Board. The Chief Executive
Officer is responsible for day to day management and
performance of the Group’s businesses. The Chairman’s
role is to ensure good corporate governance which
includes leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness
in all aspects of its role. For scheduled Board meetings,
the agenda includes reports from the Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. The January
meeting focuses on strategy, the March meeting deals
with the approval of operating budgets for the coming
financial year, while the May and November meetings
cover the approval of preliminary and interim financial
statements respectively. Members of senior management
42 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Corporate governance below Board level are often invited to make presentations
to the Board and participate in certain aspects of the
strategy review.
The Chairman, with assistance from the Company
Secretary, ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely
manner with information in a form and of a quality to
enable it to discharge its duties. The practice is to have
the agenda and supporting papers circulated to the Board
one week before each meeting. Additional information is
also provided to directors including monthly management
accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board meeting is
scheduled for that month. Arrangements are made for
non-executive directors to visit the Group’s businesses to
see their operations at first hand and have the
opportunity to discuss them with local management.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors plan to
meet, at least annually, as a group without the executive
directors present. At the conclusion of such meetings, the
Chairman will withdraw so that, under the leadership of
the senior independent director, the non-executive
directors have the opportunity to discuss any appropriate
issues and, at least annually, will appraise the Chairman’s
performance, taking account of any views expressed by
the executive directors. 
There is in place a procedure under which the directors, in
furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s
expense. The Company Secretary is responsible for
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all
directors have access to his advice and services.
All directors receive an induction programme on joining
the Board which takes into account their particular
experience and background. The process includes
information on the Group, its activities and operating
procedures, meetings with senior management and site
visits. Additional training and updates on particular issues
pertinent to their role as a director are arranged for
directors as appropriate. Two days were set aside for
induction and training prior to the Board meeting held in
January 2007.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and
supporting the Chairman and the Board on all corporate
governance matters, a responsibility he discharges in part
through his membership of the Corporate Governance
Committee.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and
its committees is to be conducted in the year ending 31
March 2008. Consideration was given to carrying out an
evaluation earlier but with four of the directors not being
appointed until 1 January 2007 it was decided that an
evaluation during the year would not have been
appropriate. The process will include the individual
appraisal of each director. The Chairman will be
responsible for these appraisals except his own which will
be the responsibility of the senior independent director.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the
first opportunity after their appointment, if appointed by
the Board of Directors, and, thereafter, re-election at least
every third year in accordance with the Company’s Articles
of Association. Being the first year since the demerger, all
the directors will be retiring at the Annual General
Meeting and standing for election. While a formal Board
evaluation has not been carried out, the Chairman and
the Board are satisfied that the performance, contribution
and commitment of each director is such that they
recommend each director for election.
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors,
including the Chairman, are available for inspection by
any person at the Company’s registered office during
normal business hours and at the Annual General
Meeting (for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during
the meeting).
Board committees
The Board has appointed a number of committees
including the following principal committees: Nomination
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit
Committee. The terms of reference of each of the
principal Board committees are available on request and
can be viewed on the Company’s website at
www.experiangroup.com. Further details of these
committees including their membership and remits are set
out below. In order to ensure that undue reliance is not
placed on particular individuals, all the non-executive
directors are currently members of each of the principal
Board committees.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and
the principal Board committees of which they are
members was as follows for the period from listing until
31 March 2007:
Board Board Nomination Remuneration Audit
(Scheduled) (Ad-hoc) Committee Committee Committee
John Peace 3/3 0/1 2/2 N/a N/a
Don Robert 3/3 0/1 2/2 N/a N/a
Paul Brooks 3/3 1/1 N/a N/a N/a
Fabiola Arredondo 2/2 0/0 1/1 2/2 2/2
Laurence Danon 2/2 0/0 1/1 2/2 2/2
Roger Davis 2/2 0/0 1/1 2/2 2/2
Alan Jebson 2/2 0/0 1/1 2/2 2/2
Sir Alan Rudge 3/3 0/1 2/2 2/2 3/3
David Tyler 3/3 1/1 2/2 2/2 3/3
Sean FitzPatrick was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2007.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 43 Nomination Committee 
The Board has established a Nomination Committee
which leads the process for Board appointments and
makes recommendations to the Board. The members of
the Nomination Committee are currently John Peace
(Chairman), Don Robert (Chief Executive Officer) and the
seven non-executive directors. The Committee is chaired
by John Peace except in respect of any matter concerning
the chairmanship of the Company when the senior
independent director takes the chair. The Company
Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. It meets at
least twice each year.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of
reference covering the authority delegated to it by the
Board. Its duties include reviewing regularly the
composition (including the skills, knowledge and
experience required) of the Board and making
recommendations to the Board with regard to any
changes, giving full consideration to succession planning
for directors and other senior executives; and identifying
and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise. 
Following the demerger, the Committee first met in
November 2006 when its members were John Peace
(Chairman), Don Robert (Chief Executive Officer) and the
two non-executive directors. As intended on demerger
and in accordance with best practice reflected in the
Code, the Committee recommended the appointment of
five independent directors to bring an appropriate balance
to the Board. The Board subsequently approved the
recommendations with the result that Fabiola Arredondo,
Laurence Danon, Roger Davis and Alan Jebson were
appointed as additional directors with effect from
1 January 2007 and Sean FitzPatrick was appointed as a
director with effect from 1 April 2007. All five new
independent non-executive directors have been appointed
to the Nomination Committee. Two specialist search
companies were used in the process to identify the
additional non-executive directors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the seven non-
executive directors including David Tyler who is not
considered independent. Roger Davis is the Chairman of
the Committee. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
are invited to attend Committee meetings and both
attended all of the Committee meetings in the period
since listing. Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger
Davis, Alan Jebson and Sean FitzPatrick were all appointed
as members of the Committee following their
appointment as directors. In the period from listing to 31
March 2007, the Committee met twice. The Company
Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee and the
Group HR Director and Global Head of Reward usually
attend. The application of corporate governance principles
in relation to directors’ remuneration is described in the
report on directors’ remuneration on pages 47 to 58.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the seven non-executive
directors including David Tyler who is not considered
independent. Alan Jebson is the Chairman of the
Committee. Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger
Davis, Alan Jebson and Sean FitzPatrick were all appointed
as members of the Committee following their
appointment as directors. Although not strictly in
accordance with the Code, David Tyler’s membership of
the Committee provides significant recent and relevant
financial experience and an in-depth knowledge of
Experian’s business, with him having been the Group
Finance Director of GUS plc from February 1997 until the
demerger. The other members of the Committee bring a
wide range of international business experience from
positions at the highest level worldwide (the directors’
biographical details appear on pages 38 and 39). The
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer are normally invited to attend Committee meetings
and each attended all of the meetings held in the period
from demerger until 31 March 2007. The Company
Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are
set out in written terms of reference which are reviewed
annually. The Committee’s principal oversight
responsibilities include internal control and risk
management, internal audit, external audit (including
auditor independence) and financial reporting.
The Committee will meet not less than three times a year.
In the period from listing until 31 March 2007, it met
three times. The external auditors, the Executive Vice
President, Risk Management and the Head of Global
Internal Audit generally also attend Audit Committee
meetings. In addition, the Committee meets the external
auditors and the Head of Global Internal Audit without
management present.
The Audit Committee has a structured programme linked
to the Group’s financial calendar. During the period under
review, the Committee undertook the following activities: 
• Reviewed the Interim Results Announcement and
considered reports from the external auditors
identifying any accounting or judgmental issues
requiring its attention;
• Reviewed and approved audit plans for the external and
internal auditors;
• Considered quarterly risk and assurance reports and
internal audit reports on the results of internal audit
reviews, significant findings, management audit plans
and timeliness of resolution;
• Reviewed reports on the Group’s risk management
process and risk profile;
• Reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any
material litigation involving Group companies;
• Reviewed presentations on risk and its identification,
management and control in Experian with senior
management; and
• Reviewed arrangements by which Group employees
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible
improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit
Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal
of the external auditors. A number of factors were taken
44 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Corporate governance cont. into account by the Committee in assessing whether to
recommend the external auditors for re-appointment.
These included:
• The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee
and the Board and the quality of advice given;
• The level of understanding demonstrated of the Group’s
businesses and its sectors; and
• The objectivity of the external auditors’ views on the
controls around the Group and their ability to co-
ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
Following the completion of the first year-end audit
process, the Committee will assess the effectiveness of the
external audit process covering all aspects of the audit
service provided by the Company’s external auditors. The
Committee will also review a report on the external
auditors’ own quality control procedures.
The Committee recognises that auditor independence is
an essential part of the audit framework and the
assurance it provides. Non-audit fees paid to the
Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , in
respect of the period under review exceeded the audit fee
and included fees relating to the demerger. The
Committee has established control processes to safeguard
the objectivity and independence of the external auditors
and to ensure that the independence of the audit work
undertaken by the external auditors is not compromised.
The Committee has established a policy covering the type
of non-audit work that can be assigned to the external
auditors. The auditors may only provide such services
provided that such advice does not conflict with their
statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance. These
services are:
• Further assurance services - where the external auditors’
deep knowledge of the Group’s affairs means that they
may be best placed to carry out such work. This may
include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other
circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection
with acquisitions and divestments.
• Taxation services - where the external auditors’
knowledge of the Group’s affairs may provide
significant advantages which other parties would not
have. Where this is not the case, the work is put out to
tender.
• General - in other circumstances, the external auditors
may provide services, provided that proposed
assignments are put out to tender and decisions to
award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable
competence and cost effectiveness. However, certain
areas of work are specifically prohibited including work
related to accounting records and financial statements
that will ultimately be subject to external audit;
management of, or significant involvement in, internal
audit services; any work that could compromise the
independence of the external auditors; and any other
work that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairman’s pre-approval is required
before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed
financial limits set out in the policy.
The Committee receives half-yearly reports providing
details of assignments and related fees carried out by the
external auditors in addition to their normal work. Fees in
respect of such assignments carried out in the year under
review are set out in note 5 to the financial statements on
page 81.
Corporate Governance Committee 
In addition to the principal Board committees, the Board
has established a number of other committees including a
Corporate Governance Committee with written terms of
reference to assist in its monitoring of corporate
governance issues. The Committee’s responsibilities
include keeping under review all legislative, regulatory and
corporate governance developments that might affect the
Company’s operations and making recommendations to
the Board in relation to them. The members of the
Corporate Governance Committee are John Peace
(Chairman), Don Robert (Chief Executive Officer), Sir Alan
Rudge (the senior independent director) and Charles
Brown (Company Secretary).
Accountability and Audit 
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the
Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The
Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the key
procedures which have been established to provide
internal control.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the Group, including those risks relating to
social, environmental and ethical matters. This process
was in place throughout the period under review and up
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and meets
the requirements of the Code. For certain joint
arrangements, the Board places reliance upon the systems
of internal control operating within the partners’
infrastructure and the obligations upon partners’ Boards
relating to the effectiveness of their own systems. In the
Board’s view, the information it received was sufficient to
enable it to review the effectiveness of the Group’s system
of internal control in accordance with the ‘Internal Control
Revised Guidance for Directors’ contained in the Code.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the
effectiveness of this system of internal control and has
reported regularly to the Board.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the year,
were as follows:
Risk assessment:
• The Group set out its objectives clearly as part of its
planning process and organisation design. These
objectives were then incorporated as part of the
planning cycle and supported by the use of both
financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 45 • Risks were methodically anticipated, identified, assessed
and appropriately mitigated as part of an enterprise
wide risk management process operating throughout
the Group on an ongoing basis.
• Senior management made presentations on risk to the
Audit Committee, which reported regularly to the Board
on the risks facing the Group’s business.
• The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from
the Board for considering operational, financial and
compliance risks on a regular basis and received its
annual report on the controls over these risks. This
included risks arising from social, environmental and
ethical matters.
Control environment and control activities:
• The Group has established procedures for delegated
authority which ensure that decisions that are
significant, either because of their value or the inherent
degree of risk, are taken at an appropriate level.
• The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to
deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include internal controls, insurance and
specialised treasury instruments.
• The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to
be adhered to throughout its business. These include
risk identification, management and reporting
standards, ethical principles and practice, accounting
policies, treasury policy, information security policy and
policy on fraud and whistleblowing. 
Information and communication:
• The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary
control, including monthly performance reviews, for
each major business. These reviews are at a detailed
level within each region and global business line and at
a high level for the Board.
• On a monthly basis, the achievement of business
objectives, both financial and non-financial, was
assessed using a range of performance indicators. These
indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they
remain relevant and reliable.
• The Group had whistleblowing procedures in place for
employees to report suspected improprieties.
Monitoring:
• A range of procedures were used to monitor the
effective application of internal control in the Group,
including management assurance, through the ongoing
risk management process, and independent assurance,
through internal audit reviews and reviews by specialist
third parties.
• The internal audit department’s responsibilities include
reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness
of internal control systems, focusing on those areas
considered to be of greatest risk to the Group.
• Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an
appropriate response to changes and developments in
risks and the control environment.
Relations with shareholders
The Company recognises the importance of
communicating with its shareholders and does this
through its Annual and Interim Reports, at the Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) and through the processes
described below.
Although most shareholder contact is with the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer,
supported by management specialising in investor
relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to
ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders
takes place.
At each of its scheduled Board meetings, the Board
reviews a report of all important or relevant issues raised
by shareholders during the course of meetings and
discussions with them. Additionally, the Board (and in
particular, the non-executive directors) obtains an
independent insight into the views of major shareholders
through research commissioned with a third party adviser
across a balanced sample of Experian’s shareholders. The
latter typically control some 20 to 30 per cent of the
Company’s issued share capital. The findings of the
research are presented to the Board by the third
party adviser.
There is a direct line of communication to the Chairman
available to shareholders particularly if there are issues of
concern, whether about performance, strategy or
governance. Sir Alan Rudge, the senior independent
director, is also available should shareholders have
concerns which contact through the normal channels of
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer fails to resolve or for which such
contact is inappropriate. Shareholders are also offered
the opportunity to meet the Company’s non-executive
directors.
Shareholders who do not support a particular AGM
resolution do not always seek engagement with
companies to explain their actions or request further
information. The Company would be keen to understand
their reasons for any lack of support and to have a
dialogue with shareholders on these issues. Its policy,
therefore, insofar as is practicable, would be to seek
engagement with shareholders on such issues.
Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will
attend the AGM and will be available to answer
shareholders’ questions. 
Voting at the AGM will be by way of poll. The results of
voting at the AGM will be announced and details of the
votes will also be added to the Group’s website,
www.experiangroup.com, as soon as possible after
the meeting.
46 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Corporate governance cont. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 47
Report on directors’ remuneration
1. Remuneration Committee
1.1 Role
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for: 
• recommending Experian’s policy on the remuneration of Senior Management;
• determining the remuneration level and structure for executive directors and approving that of selected executives who report to the
executive directors;
• communicating to shareholders on remuneration policy and the Committee’s work on behalf of the Board; 
• reviewing and recommending the design of the Group’s share schemes.
The remuneration of non-executive directors and the Chairman is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole. No director is involved in any
discussions as to his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are also
published on the Group’s website www.experiangroup.com.
1.2 Membership and meetings
Since the date of demerger of GUS plc, the Remuneration Committee has comprised the following non-executive directors: 
Roger Davis (Chairman, appointed 1 January 2007) 
Fabiola Arredondo (appointed 1 January 2007)
Laurence Danon (appointed 1 January 2007)
Alan Jebson (appointed 1 January 2007)
Sir Alan Rudge (appointed 6 September 2006)
David Tyler (appointed 6 July 2006)
Sean FitzPatrick joined the Committee from 1 April 2007, his date of appointment. 
In the period from listing on 11 October 2006 to 31 March 2007, the Committee has met twice. Attendance at these meetings is set out in
the corporate governance statement on page 43. 
1.3 Advisers
In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the Global
Head of Reward who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee as and when appropriate. They are not permitted to participate in
discussions or decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives independent advice.
Towers Perrin, Kepler Associates (Kepler) and Linklaters have been the principal advisers to the Committee in the period under review
providing market information and general remuneration advice. 
A full list of the advisers who provided data or consulting services to the Committee during the year, together with details of other services
provided by them to the Company, can be found on the Experian website. 
2. Remuneration policy 
The Remuneration Committee of GUS plc reviewed the remuneration policy for executive directors prior to the demerger of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee of Experian Group Limited has determined that the policy remains appropriate for the coming year. The
remuneration policy will be regularly reviewed by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee aims to have in place a remuneration policy for the Company which is consistent with its business objectives,
and which can:
1. pay market-competitive base salary levels but no higher than this;
2. provide competitive performance-related compensation which influences performance, and helps attract and retain executives by
providing the opportunity to earn substantial rewards for outstanding performance leading to long-term shareholder value;
3. apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained profitable growth in all our businesses, thereby aligning incentives to
shareholders’ interests;
4. provide a balanced portfolio of incentives - bonus, options and shares which align both short term (one year) and longer term (three
years plus) performance such that sustainable growth and value are delivered;
5. provide accountability and transparency and align with the interests of shareholders;
6. deliver competitive benefits to underpin the other components of the remuneration package.
Consistent with the policy, the Committee reviews the elements of the remuneration package relative to other comparable organisations
and other companies of similar size and scope to Experian. Performance-related incentives are targeted at upper quartile levels for
outstanding performance to produce a highly leveraged package if the Company’s growth objectives are attained. The Company is
committed to performance-related pay at all levels within the organisation. All employees are encouraged to participate as shareholders in
the Company. 48 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
2.1 Remuneration of executive directors
The remuneration package is weighted towards the performance-
related elements of the package. In fair value terms, the proportion
of total pay (excluding pensions and benefits) which is variable is
approximately 71 per cent, as illustrated. 
The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures that
align with the Group’s strategic goals and that are transparent and
clear to both directors and shareholders. Each element in the
reward package is designed to support the achievement of
different Company objectives, as illustrated below:
Element Purpose Delivery Policy
(a) Base salary – Reflects the competitive market – In cash – Individual contribution
salary level for the individual – Monthly – Reviewed annually
and their role. – Pensionable
– Takes account of personal 
contribution, skill and performance.
(b) Annual bonus/ – Rewards the achievement of – Cash/deferred – Profit before tax
Co-investment Plan annual financial targets. shares is the key measure 
– Provides opportunity to re-invest – Annual
bonus in Experian shares. – Non-pensionable
with matching opportunities.
– Aligns with shareholder 
interests through delivery in shares.
(c) Experian – Aligns with shareholder interests – Shares, subject – Relative total 
Performance through delivery of shares. to performance shareholder return 
Share Plan – Rewards sustained growth in conditions. against a tailored 
shareholder value and out-performance comparator group 
compared to peers. measured over a 
– Acts as a retention tool as demerger three-year period, 
awards are released five years after subject to satisfactory 
date of grant. overall financial 
performance.
– Profit before tax 
over a three-year period.
(d) Experian Share – Direct link to growth objectives – Shares under – EPS growth measured over
Option Plan through EPS growth hurdle and to option, subject to a three year period.
value creation through share performance 
price increase. conditions.
– Aligns with shareholder interests 
through delivery of shares.
– Acts as a retention tool as options 
vest equally on third and fourth 
anniversary of date of grant.
(e) Sharesave – Opportunity to invest in Experian – Shares under – Employees must
shares over three or five year savings option bought be in employment on
period. with accumulated qualifying date
savings at the end of in order to participate.
the savings period.
(f) Pension – To provide market competitive – Monthly – Defined benefit scheme
post-retirement benefits. contributions – US 401k (defined 
contribution) arrangements.
Report on directors’ remuneration cont. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 49
Acxiom Fair Isaac Harte-Hanks
Alliance Data Systems Fidelity National Financial IAC/Interactive Corp
Bisys Group Fimalac Moodys
Capita Group First American Reuters Group
Choicepoint First Data Thomson
Dun & Bradstreet Fiserv Total System Services
Equifax Global Payments
(a) Base salary and benefits
To ascertain the job’s market value, external remuneration consultants annually review and provide data about market salary levels and
advise the Remuneration Committee. Executive directors’ salaries are benchmarked against a mid-market level of main board executive
directors from the comparator companies in the FTSE 100 Index and other global comparators which reflect the market in which we recruit
talent. Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the Committee assesses each director’s contribution to the business, to
reflect individual performance and experience.
In addition to base salary, executive directors receive certain benefits in kind including a car or car allowance, private health cover and life assurance.
(b) Annual bonus and Co-investment Plan
Annual bonuses are awarded for achieving profit growth targets. We believe that linking incentives to profit growth helps to reinforce our
growth objectives. Targets are calibrated by Kepler using benchmarks that reflect stretching internal and external expectations. Benchmarks
include: broker earnings estimates; earnings estimates for competitors; straight-line profit growth consistent with median/upper quartile
shareholder returns over the next three to five years; latest projections for the current year; budget; strategic plan; long-term financial goals.
2006/07 bonus
For bonuses paid in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007, executive directors were eligible for an annual incentive with a target of 50
per cent of salary and a maximum of 100 per cent of salary for substantially exceeding targets. Actual bonuses awarded were midway
between target and maximum level. This is reflective of strong performance against targets. The executive directors will be entitled to
participate in the final cycle of the GUS Co-investment Plan as invitations to participate were issued prior to the confirmation of the
demerger. Participants in the GUS Co-investment Plan receive a matching award of shares which rises on a sliding scale up to 2:1 for
maximum performance. The matching awards will vest three years following the date of grant. There will be no further awards under the
GUS Co-investment Plan. 
2007/08 bonus
As disclosed in the demerger shareholder circular, it was agreed that for annual bonuses paid in respect of the year ending 31 March 2008, the
maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors would increase to 200 per cent of base salary. This level of annual bonus would only be
paid if Experian’s financial performance surpassed stretching financial targets and hence would only be payable if exceptional results were
delivered to shareholders. The extension to the bonus opportunity for the executive directors was intended to recognise the global market in
which Experian operates and to place a larger proportion of the executive directors’ total remuneration at risk and accompanied the reduction
of the matching opportunity under the Experian Co-investment Plan to 1:1 (previously 2:1 under the GUS Co-investment Plan). Executive
directors will not participate in the Experian Co-investment Plan for the 2007/08 fiscal year and any bonus payment will be made in cash. 
2008/09 bonus
For annual bonus earned in respect of the 2008/09 fiscal year, executive directors will be offered their first opportunity since the demerger
to defer receipt of their bonus and invest it in Experian shares (“invested shares”) under the Experian Co-investment Plan. The release of
the invested shares will be deferred for three years. Participants will have dividend and voting rights in respect of the invested shares. The
number of invested shares acquired on behalf of the executive will be matched with an additional award of shares (“matching shares”).
The release of these matching shares to participants will be subject to the achievement of a performance condition.
The release of these shares will be deferred for three years including the original bonus deferral. Dividends will be accrued on these awards.
If an executive resigns during the three-year period he/she will forfeit the right to the matching shares and the associated dividends. 
(c) Experian Performance Share Plan
The Experian Performance Share Plan was approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM on 29 August 2006. An initial award was made to
participants, including the executive directors, on 11 October 2006. There will be no further awards to executive directors under this plan
until June 2009. Performance shares are ‘free’ Experian shares for which no exercise price is payable. The award is communicated to
participants as an allocation of shares which are subject to a performance condition which is measured over a three-year performance
period with a five-year vesting period. Dividends will accrue on these awards.
For the above demerger awards granted in October 2006, the performance condition is in two separate parts; 50 per cent of the award
will be subject to achievement against a sliding scale of growth in profit before tax (PBT). The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of
7 per cent per year at which 25 per cent of this part of the award will vest rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100 per cent of this part of the
award vesting at a growth in PBT of 14% per year.
The remaining 50 per cent of the award will vest according to the performance of Experian’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the
following group of peer companies:  50 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Report on directors’ remuneration cont.
This bespoke comparator group consists of Experian’s main competitors in the business areas and countries in which the Group operates.
This part of the award will not vest if Experian’s total shareholder return (defined as share price movement plus reinvested dividends) is
below the median return for the comparator group. Once Experian achieves median performance, 25 per cent of this portion of the award
may vest rising on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent of this part of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better. This can
be summarised as follows:
% of performance shares 
subject to the TSR 
Experian TSR ranking performance condition 
in the peer group  that will vest
1st - 6th 100%
7th 85%
8th 70%
9th 55%
10th 40%
11th 25%
12th - 21st 0
The Committee considers that these are appropriate measures as they align the long-term interest of participants with those of
shareholders and provide both internal (PBT) and external (TSR) focus for participants. 
(d) Experian Share Option Plan
The Experian Share Option Plan (ESOP) was approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM on 29 August 2006. It is intended to align
shareholder and participant interests through share price growth. Options will vest subject to the satisfaction of a stretching EPS target
which will be set prior to options being granted. No awards will be made to executive directors under the plan until June 2009.
For each of the long term incentive plans, external consultants will be used to calculate whether and the extent to which the performance
conditions have been met.
(e) Experian Sharesave
All executive directors and employees of Experian Group and any participating subsidiaries are eligible to participate in Sharesave if they
have been employed by Experian for a qualifying period. Sharesave provides an opportunity for employees to save a regular monthly
amount which at the end of the savings period may be used to purchase shares under option. 
(f) Pensions 
Pensions are offered in line with competitive practice. The retirement age for directors is 60 under arrangements which broadly provide a
pension of two thirds of final salary, life assurance and ill health and dependants’ pensions. Incentive payments (such as annual bonuses)
are not pensionable.
The UK Finance Act 2004 made major changes to the taxation and regulation of occupational pension schemes and to the benefits which
occupational pension schemes may provide. The Company has had arrangements in place for a number of years which were designed to
ensure that UK directors who were affected by the 1989 HM Revenue and Customs earnings cap were placed in broadly the same position
as those who were not. With the agreement of the trustees of the scheme, the Company decided to retain a notional earnings cap for its
existing and future employees, with the exception of new senior executives who will be pensioned on full basic salary up to the Lifetime
Allowance.
The Company has put security in place for the unfunded pension entitlements of UK executives affected by the earnings cap, by
establishing Secured Unfunded Retirement Benefits Schemes (SURBS). Further details are provided under the disclosure of the arrangements
for each director.
(g) Service contracts
Each executive director has a rolling service contract which can be terminated by the Company giving twelve months’ notice. In the event
of termination of the director’s contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance with normal legal principles, including the
application of mitigation to the extent appropriate in the circumstances of the case. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 51
3. Performance graph
The Committee has chosen to illustrate the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) for GUS plc until demerger and Experian Group Limited against
the FTSE 100 Index for the period since listing on 11 October 2006 to 31 March 2007. The FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index
against which TSR should be measured, as it is a widely used and understood index of leading UK companies. The performance graph is
shown below:
The graph shows that, at 31 March 2007, a hypothetical £100 invested in GUS and subsequently, Experian on 31 March 2002 would have generated a total return of
£174 compared with a gain of £143 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
4. Non-executive directors’ remuneration policy
The Board’s policy on non-executive directors’ remuneration is that:
• Fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of Board Committees.
• Remuneration should be in line with recognised best practice and sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high calibre non-executives.
• Remuneration should be a combination of cash fees (paid quarterly) and Experian shares (bought annually in the first quarter of the financial year).
• Non-executive directors are obliged to comply with a shareholding requirement explained below. Any tax liability connected to these
arrangements is the responsibility of the individual director.
• Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind with the exception of the Chairman who has the use of a company car and
private healthcare.
The fees of non-executive directors were reviewed on their appointment to the Board and will next be reviewed in 2008. Fees will be
reviewed in the light of market practice in FTSE 100 companies and anticipated number of days worked, tasks and responsibilities. 
Base Fee a106,154
Senior Independent Director a19,437
Chair of Remuneration Committee a23,922
Chair of Audit Committee a31,398
Experian requires its non-executive directors to build up a holding in the Company’s shares equal to one times their annual fee. One quarter
of their annual fee is used to purchase shares in the Company each year until they reach this holding. They are included in the table of
directors’ interests on page 58. Non-executive directors do not participate in executive share schemes or other employee share scheme
arrangements. Non-executives do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment. No non-executive director’s letter of
appointment provides for any termination payment. Each appointment is for a renewable three year term but may be terminated by either
party on one month’s written notice. 52 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Report on directors’ remuneration cont.
Notes: 
1. Non-executive directors receive an additional fee of a5,981 per trip to attend Board Meetings where such attendance involves inter-continental travel from their home location. For the period under review Fabiola Arredondo did not
receive this allowance as her travel to the Board Meeting did not include such travel.
2. Benefits to executive directors include private health care, company car and fuel allowance where applicable.
3. John Peace was appointed Chairman of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006. Until 11 December 2006, he was also Group Chief Executive of GUS plc. The figures in this table represent his salary, benefits and director’s fees for
the whole of the financial year and were paid by Experian Finance plc (formerly GUS plc), his employer in respect of his employment in this period. He did not receive a separate fee as Chairman of Experian Group Limited for the
year ending 31 March 2007. During the year under review, John Peace served as non-executive Chairman of Burberry Group plc. He did not receive any additional remuneration for these services. With effect from 1 April 2007,
Experian Group Limited will pay his director’s fees. From this date his fee is £450,000 per annum. From 1 April 2007 he is not eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or further long term incentive awards but will
continue to receive a company car benefit and coverage under the Company’s private healthcare arrangements.
4. Don Robert and Paul Brooks were appointed to the Board of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006. Don Robert remains a Director of Experian Finance plc. The figures in the table represent sums paid for the whole of the financial
year. These sums were paid by their respective employers. Experian Group Limited pays directors’ fees of a106,154 per annum (and pro rata for the year ending 31 March 2007) in respect of their services as directors of Experian
Group Limited. Such fees form part of, and are not additional to, the remuneration set out in the table. During the year under review, Don Robert served as a non-executive director of First Advantage Corporation for which he
received a fee of US$51,000. Benefit payments to Paul Brooks include payments for housing whilst he was on expatriate assignment in the US. 
5. Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger Davis and Alan Jebson were appointed to the Board of Experian Group Limited on 1 January 2007. The figures in the table represent their fees and expenses from this date. As is
permissible under Jersey law, the Company has met the cost of the tax payment on their taxable travel expenses where applicable.
6. Sir Alan Rudge was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 6 September 2006. Prior to this he was a non-executive director of GUS plc until 11 October 2006. The figures in this table represent his fees and expenses for
the whole of the financial year. As is permissible under Jersey law, the Company has met the cost of the tax payment on his taxable travel expenses where applicable.
7. David Tyler was appointed to the Board of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006. Until 31 March 2007, he was Group Finance Director of GUS plc. The figures in this table represent his salary, benefits and director’s fees for the
whole of the financial year and were paid by Experian Finance plc (formerly GUS plc), his employer in respect of his employment in this period. He did not receive a separate fee as a director of Experian Group Limited for the year
ending 31 March 2007. During the year under review, David Tyler served as non-executive director of Burberry Group plc. He did not receive any additional remuneration for these services. With effect from 1 April 2007, David
ceased to be an executive director of GUS plc (now Experian Finance plc) by reason of redundancy; his contract provides for a notice period of 12 months or contractual pay in lieu of notice for 12 months. Contractual pay on
redundancy includes base salary (£545,000), car and fuel allowance (£18,200). These payments were made in April 2007. From 1 April 2007, Experian Group Limited will pay his non-executive director’s fee. This fee is a106,154.
From 1 April 2007 he is not be eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or further long term incentive awards. 
8. Sir Victor Blank resigned as Chairman of GUS plc on 11 December 2006. John Coombe, Andy Hornby, Frank Newman and Oliver Stocken resigned as directors of GUS plc on 11 October 2006. The figures in this table represent
their fees up to this date.  
Transition arrangements on demerger of GUS plc
The Chairman, the executive directors and one of the non-executive directors have existing long-term incentive plan awards previously
approved and issued by GUS plc. These existing long-term incentive plan awards include share options as described in section 6, awards
under the GUS Performance Share Plan as described in section 8 and awards under the GUS Co-investment Plan and Experian
Reinvestment Plan as described in section 9.
Each of these long-term incentive plan awards was subject to transitional arrangements on demerger of GUS plc. Each award under the GUS
plans has been adjusted to an equivalent number of Experian awards based on the GUS plc and Experian Group Limited share price at demerger.
Similarly, the share option exercise price of existing GUS awards has been adjusted to the equivalent exercise price for each Experian share.
Sections 6, 8 and 9 of the report on directors’ remuneration detail the opening GUS awards at 1 April 2006 and the changes to the
original GUS awards on demerger.
5. Annual remuneration 
The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of the individual directors for the full year ended 31 March 2007.
Salary and Annual Total Total
Fees
(1)
bonus Benefits
(2)
2007 2006
‘000s ‘000s ‘000s ‘000s ‘000s
Chairman
John Peace 
(3)
£875 £875 £34 £1,784 £1,181
Executive directors
Don Robert 
(4)
$1,300 $937 $104 $2,341 $2,393
Paul Brooks 
(4)
$596 $532 $242 $1,370 $1,068
Non-executive directors
Fabiola Arredondo 
(5)
a27 – a1 a28 –
Laurence Danon 
(5)
a33 – – a33 –
Roger Davis 
(5)
a39 – – a39 –
Alan Jebson 
(5)
a40 – a1 a41 –
Sir Alan Rudge 
(6)
a88 – a1 a89 £68
David Tyler 
(7)
£545 £545 £20 £1,110 £735
Former directors
Sir Victor Blank 
(8)
£358 – £31 £389 £197
John Coombe 
(8)
£64 – – £64 £60
Andy Hornby 
(8)
£43 – – £43 £58
Frank Newman 
(8)
£43 – – £43 £58
Oliver Stocken 
(8)
£64 – – £64 £81
The following shares were purchased for the former non-executive Directors of GUS plc over the two day period 20 and 21 July 2006. The
value reported below is included within the remuneration reported in the above table.
No of Value
shares £
Sir Victor Blank
(8)
18,000 179,252
John Coombe
(8) 
4,000 39,835
Andy Hornby
(8)
2,500 24,897
Frank Newman
(8)
2,500 24,897
Oliver Stocken
(8)
4,000 39,835
The information set out in sections 5 to 10 below has been subject to audit. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 53
6. Share options
Details of options granted to executive directors, under the Group’s executive share option schemes, are set out in the table below:
Chairman
John Peace
(!)
11.06.01 195,854 – – 612.7p – 348,032 – 344.8p 11.06.04–29.09.07
06.06.02 99,540 – – 653.0p – 176,882 – 367.5p 06.06.05–29.09.07
19.06.03 99,185 – – 675.5p – 176,251 – 380.1p 19.06.06–29.09.07
19.06.03 4,441 – – 675.5p – 7,600 – 394.7p 19.06.06–29.09.07
01.06.04 93,919 – – 809.2p – 166,894 – 455.4p 01.06.07–29.09.07
31.05.05 93,768 – – 858.5p – 166,625 – 483.1p 31.05.05–29.09.07
02.06.06 – 94,492 – 926.0p – 167,912 – 521.1p 02.06.06–29.09.07
1,210,196
Executive directors
Don Robert
(2)
19.06.03 145,196 – 145,196 675.5p 970.1p – – – –
01.06.04 134,890 – – 809.2p – 239,699 – 455.4p 11.10.06–31.05.11
31.05.05 74,334 – – 858.5p – 132,091 – 483.1p 31.05.08–30.05.15
02.06.06 – 74,949 – 926.0p – 133,184 – 521.1p 02.06.09–01.06.16
504,974
Paul Brooks
19.06.03 31,997 – 31,997 675.0p 967.1p – – – –
02.12.03 28,054 – – 757.0p – 49,852 – 426.0p 02.12.06–01.12.09
02.12.03 4,418 – – 757.0p – 7,851 – 426.0p 02.12.06–01.12.13
01.06.04 28,515 – – 809.2p – 50,671 – 455.4p 01.06.07–31.05.14
01.06.04 3,707 – – 809.2p – 6,344 – 472.9p 01.06.07–31.05.14
31.05.05 33,409 – – 858.5p – 59,368 – 483.1p 31.05.08–30.05.15
02.06.06 – 30,885 – 926.0p – 54,883 – 521.1p 02.06.09–01.06.16
228,969
Non-executive directors
David Tyler
(3)
06.06.02 58,192 – – 653.0p – 103,407 – 367.5p 06.06.05–05.06.12
19.06.03 57,735 – – 675.5p – 102,595 – 380.1p 19.06.06–18.06.13
19.06.03 4,441 – – 675.5p – 7,600 – 394.7p 19.06.06–18.06.13
01.06.04 58,082 – – 809.2p – 103,212 – 455.4p 01.06.07–31.05.14
31.05.05 58,241 – – 858.5p – 103,494 – 483.1p 31.05.08–30.05.15
02.06.06 – 58,855 – 926.0p – 104,585 – 521.1p 02.06.09–01.06.16
524,893
Notes:
1. The expiry date on John Peace’s rolled over options is subject to limited extension for regulatory reasons.
2. Options granted to Don Robert prior to his date of appointment to the Board of GUS in April 2005 were granted under the GUS North America Stock Option Plan. The 2005 and 2006 grants were made under the GUS Executive
Share Option Scheme.
3. David Tyler was eligible to exchange his options and awards for equivalent options and awards over Experian shares on the same basis as other participants in the relevant GUS plans except that he was not eligible to participate in
the Experian Reinvestment Plan. To the extent that his options were rolled over, the new options will not vest or lapse in connection with his termination of employment. In respect of such options, David Tyler will be treated as a
good leaver for the purposes of the relevant plan rules if he ceases to be a non-executive director of the Company except as a result of voluntary resignation or actions which would constitute gross misconduct. The relevant
performance conditions apply.
4. No options were granted to executive directors on demerger.
Number of
options at
1 April 2006
or date of
appointment
Date from which
exercisable/expiry date
Total
number
of options
at 31
March
2007
Options
granted
pre-
demerger
(over GUS
plc shares)
Options
exercised
prior to
demerger 
Original
GUS
exercise
price
GUS 
share
price on
date of
exercise
Options
rolled
over into
Experian
shares
Options
exercised
following
demerger
New
Experian
exercise
price 54 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
The GUS exercise prices represent the average of the middle market quotations of a GUS share as derived from the Daily Official List of The
London Stock Exchange for the three immediately preceding dealing days to the date on which options were originally granted. Options
granted under the GUS Executive Share Option Schemes which were granted before 2005 were exchanged for equivalent options over
Experian shares.  Unvested options granted in 2005 and 2006 (other than options granted under the GUS 1998 Approved Executive Share
Option Scheme) were automatically exchanged for equivalent options over Experian shares.  The performance condition for options granted
in 2005 and 2006 is based on the growth of Experian’s Earnings per Share in excess of the UK Retail Price Index from the date of demerger. 
The market price of Experian Group Limited shares at the end of the financial year was 585.5p; the highest and lowest prices during the
financial year were 631.5p and 559.5p respectively.
SAYE share option scheme
Details of awards to directors under the GUS plc SAYE share option scheme are as follows:
Chairman
John Peace 4,394 – 4,394 384.0p 1009p – – – 01.05.06–31.10.06 –
Executive directors
Paul Brooks 1,454 – – 648.0p – 2,488 – 378.6p 01.09.07–29.02.08 2,488
Non-executive directors
David Tyler 4,394 – 4,394 384.0p 1035p – – – 01.05.06–31.10.06 –
Former directors
Sir Victor Blank 4,394 – 4,394 384.0p 1035p – – – 01.05.06–31.10.06 –
Oliver Stocken 4,394 – 4,394 384.0p 1035p – – – 01.05.06–31.10.06 –
Notes
1. Paul Brooks also participated in the US s.423 plan whilst he was based in the US. He currently holds 296 shares under the 2005 plan cycle and 463 shares under the 2006 plan cycle in addition to those in the above table.
7. Experian ESOP Trust
As at 31 March 2007, the executive directors were, together with other employees of the Experian Group, discretionary beneficiaries under
the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust and, as such, each director is deemed to be interested in 13,419,683 ordinary shares in
Experian Group Limited held by the trustee of the Trust.
Number of
options at
1 April 2006
Date from which
exercisable/expiry date
Total
number
of options
at 31
March
2007
Options
granted
pre-
demerger
(over GUS
plc shares)
Options
exercised
prior to
demerger
Original
GUS
exercise
price
GUS 
share
price on
date of
exercise
Options
rolled
over into
Experian
shares
Options
exercised
following
demerger
New
Experian
exercise
price
Report on directors’ remuneration cont. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 55
8. GUS Performance Share Plan
In June 2006, executive directors received a share award under the GUS Performance Share Plan (PSP) with a face value of one times salary.
On demerger, these awards were automatically rolled over into Experian shares. As approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM, awards
equivalent to two times salary were made to executive directors on demerger in October 2006. Both awards are outlined below. For awards
granted under the rolled over GUS Performance Share Plan awards the performance condition is based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
against the comparator group adopted by Experian (see 2.1c above) since the demerger. Rolled over awards will not vest if Experian’s total
shareholder return (defined as share price movement plus reinvested dividends) is below the median return for the comparator group. For
these rolled over awards only, once Experian achieves median performance, 40 per cent of the award may vest rising on a straight-line basis
to 100 per cent of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
Plan shares
awarded at
1 April 2006
Normal
vesting date
Total plan
shares
held at 31
March
2007
Plan shares
awarded
prior to
demerger
(1)
Plan
shares
released
prior to
demerger
GUS 
share
price on
date of
award
Share
price on
date of
release
Awards
rolled
over into
Experian
shares
Plan
shares
awarded
on
demerger
Experian
share
price on
date of
award
Chairman
John Peace
(2)
19.06.03 103,626 – 103,626 675.5p 928.8p – – – June 2006
01.06.04 93,919 – 79,831 809.2p 963.6p – – – June 2007
31.05.05 93,768 – – 858.5p – 166,625 – – May 2008
02.06.06 – 94,492 – 926.0p – 167,912 – – June 2009
334,537
Executive directors
Don Robert 
19.06.03 26,619 – 26,619 675.5p 928.8p – – – June 2006
01.06.04 22,481 – 19,108 809.2p 963.6p – – – June 2007
31.05.05 74,334 – – 858.5p – 132,091 – – May 2008
02.06.06 – 74,949 – 926.0p – 133,184 – – June 2009
11.10.06 – – – – – – 246,698 560.0p Oct 2011
511,973
Paul Brooks
19.06.03 16.059 – 16,059 675.5p 928.8p – – – June 2006
01.06.04 16,111 – 13,694 809.2p 963.6p – – – June 2007
31.05.05 16,704 – – 858.5p – 29,683 – – May 2008
02.06.06 – 15,442 – 926.0p – 27,440 – – June 2009
11.10.06 – – – – – – 132,837 560.0p Oct 2011
189,960
Non-executive directors
David Tyler
(3)
19.06.03 62,176 – 62,176 675.5p 928.8p – – – June 2006
01.06.04 58,082 – 49,369 809.2p 963.6p – – – June 2007
31.05.05 58,241 – – 858.5p – 103,494 – – May 2008
02.06.06 – 58,855 – 926.0p – 104,585 – – June 2009
208,079
Notes:
1. On demerger, awards made under the 2004 GUS Performance Share Plan were automatically transferred to participants. These awards vested at 85 per cent of the original award. GUS Performance Share Plan awards made in 2005
and 2006 were replaced with an equivalent award over Experian shares. 
2. As John Peace’s employment with Experian Finance plc (formerly GUS plc) ended on 31 March 2007, under the rules of the Plan, all outstanding awards will vest subject to the performance condition on the original vesting date
specified in the table, and will be time pro-rated to 31 March 2007. Disclosures will be made in respect of vesting at the appropriate time
3. David Tyler’s awards were rolled over on the basis described in footnote 3 to the Share Options table on page 53.
4. Under the Plan rules, participants are entitled to dividend equivalents on release of awards under the 2004 GUS Performance Share Plan as follows, John Peace £63,864; Don Robert $28,769; Paul Brooks $20,618
and David Tyler £39,496. 56 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Report on directors’ remuneration cont.
9. GUS Co-investment Plan and Experian Reinvestment Plan
Awards to directors under the 2004 and 2005 cycles of the GUS Co-investment Plan and North America Co-investment Plan were
reinvested in awards under the Experian Reinvestment Plan and North America Reinvestment Plan at demerger as approved by GUS
shareholders at the EGM. Awards under the 2006 cycle were automatically rolled over into equivalent awards over Experian shares under
the rules of the GUS Co-investment Plan. The share price on the date of award was 560p. Release of matching shares under the Experian
Reinvestment Plan is subject to the achievement of performance conditions
(3)
, the retention of reinvested awards and continued
employment. No further awards will be made under the Reinvestment Plan. 
For the year ending 31 March 2007, Don Robert and Paul Brooks received a bonus of 72 per cent of base salary and chose to invest the
whole of their bonus under the GUS North America Co-investment plan. The invested shares deferred under these arrangements are not
reflected in the table below as this report was published prior to the actual share purchase. The related matching shares under these
arrangements are also not shown in the table below. They are not released until the expiry of a three-year period and the right to the
matching shares is forfeited if a director resigns before then.
Invested
Original Original and Awards
GUS GUS Invested Matching Matching rolled over
Invested Matching shares shares GUS share Shares Share into Re- Special Experian Total plan
shares At shares At granted granted price on released price on Experian Experian investment Re- share price shares at 
1 April 1 April prior to prior to date of prior to/on date of plan Matching Matching investment on date Vesting 31 March
2006 2006 demerger demerger award demerger release shares shares Award award
(2)
of award date 2007
Chairman
John Peace
(2)
20.06.03 49,689 195,858 – – – 245,547 929.0p – – – – June 2006
11.06.04 42,178 166,256 – – – – – 72,394 295,436 – 370,386 560.0p Oct 2011
13 06.05 44,111 173,875 – – – – – 75,712 308,976 – 387,361 560.0p Oct 2011
12.06.06 – – 22,124 33,562 918.0p – – 22,124 59,640 – – 560.0p June 2009
1,592,029
Executive directors
Don Robert
20.06.03 36,257 56,191 – – – 92,448 929.0p – – – – June 2006
11.06.04 78,512 157,024 – – – – – 139,516 279,032 837,096 – 560.0p Oct 2011
13.06.05 83,109 166,219 – – – – – 147,685 295,371 886,112 – 560.0p Oct 2011
12.06.06 – – 68,480 136,960 918.0p – – 121,689 243,378 – – 560.0p June 2009
2,949,879
Paul Brooks
20.06.03 17,346 27,933 – – – 45,279 929.0p – – – – June 2006
11.06.04 29,212 58,424 – – – – – 51,910 103,820 311,460 – 560.0p Oct 2011
13 06.05 29,827 59,654 – – – – – 53,003 106,005 318,016 – 560.0p Oct 2011
12.06.06 – – 31,072 62,145 918.0p – – 55,215 110,432 – – 560.0p June 2009
1,109,861
Non–executive directors
David Tyler
(4)
20.06.03 29,049 114,501 – – – 143,550 929.0p – – – – June 2006
11.06.04 25,307 99,754 – – – 125,061 984.3p – – – – 560.0p Oct 2006
13.06.05 27,279 107,528 – – – 134,807 984.3p – – – – 560.0p Oct 2006
12.06.06 – –13,74220,846918.0p – –13,74237,043 – –560.0p June 2009
50,785
Notes:
1. Invested shares for John Peace and David Tyler were purchased with the bonus net of tax. The matching share awards are made on a gross basis and are taxed at the point of vesting. Invested shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks
were purchased with the bonus gross of tax. 
2. John Peace was granted a matching award over Experian shares which will vest after three years if he continues to be Chairman of Experian, subject to the good leaver reasons included in the rules. Details of this award were
disclosed in the shareholder circular dated 26 July 2006.
3. The first 50% of a matching award under the Experian Reinvestment Plan will vest subject to satisfaction of a performance condition relative to a sliding scale of growth in Experian Group’s profit before tax over a three-year period.
The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of 7% per annum at which 30% of this part of the matching award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part of the award vesting at growth in PBT of 14% per
annum. This part of the matching award will vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant. The remaining 50% of the matching award will be time-based and will vest as to 50% of this part of the
matching award on the third anniversary of grant and as to 25% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
4. David Tyler’s 2004 and 2005 GUS Co-investment Plan awards vested at the time of the demerger, and he did not reinvest these awards. David Tyler’s 2006 GUS Co-investment Plan awards were rolled over on the basis described in
footnote 3 to the Share Options table on page 53.
5. Under the Plan rules, participants are entitled to dividend equivalents on release of the matching share awards under the 2003 GUS Co-investment Plan as follows, John Peace £223,419; Don Robert $55,095; Paul Brooks $26,358
and David Tyler £135,717. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 57
10. Executive directors’ annual pension  
Don Robert is provided with benefits through a Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) which is a defined benefit arrangement in
the US. The figures below are in respect of his SERP entitlement.  He also participates in a defined contribution arrangement and the
employer contributions to this arrangement during the year were $9,423.
Paul Brooks is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme (formerly the GUS Pension Scheme).  His benefits within the Scheme
are restricted by an earnings cap.  However, benefits in excess of this cap are provided for through the Experian Limited SURBS (Secured
Unfunded Retirement Benefits Scheme). The pension figures below reflect both his registered and non-registered entitlement.    
The table below provides the disclosure of the above directors’ pension entitlements in respect of benefits from registered schemes and
non-registered arrangements.
Don Robert 252 204 4,006 3,257 748 41 649
£’000 pa £'000 pa £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 pa £’000
Paul Brooks 74 62 995 784 203 10 130
John Peace is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme.  His benefits are not restricted by an earnings cap, and therefore the
pension figures in the table below reflect his registered Scheme benefits. 
David Tyler is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme.  His benefits within the Scheme are restricted by an earnings cap.
However, benefits in excess of this cap are provided for through the GUS plc SURBS (although part of this promise will be provided for by a
funded arrangement, which was closed to future contributions on 1 April 2002).  The pension figures below reflect both his funded and
unfunded entitlements and the additional year in respect of his leaving service agreement.
As Messrs Peace and Tyler took immediate retirement from the registered Experian Pension Scheme with effect from 31 March 2007, the
figures shown in the table below give details of their pre-commutation, early retirement benefits payable from 1 April 2007.
Six former directors of GUS plc have been receiving unfunded pensions from the Company for a number of years.  At demerger, the
pensions of three of the former directors were transferred to the SURBS that provides security for the unfunded pensions of executives
affected by the HMRC earnings cap (see section 2.1(f)).  Two of the pensions were transferred into the registered Scheme on 1 October
2006 and a payment of £107,900 (calculated by the Scheme actuary) was made by the Company to the Scheme.  The total unfunded
pensions paid to the former directors was £445,646  (2006:£429,596).
John Peace 487 467 9,645 7,655 1,990 46 911
David Tyler 156 142 3,401 1,871 1,514 39 834
Notes:
Columns (1) and (2) represent the deferred pension to which the director would have been entitled had they left the Group at 31 March 2007 and 2006, respectively, except in the cases of Messrs Peace and Tyler where column (1)
represents the early retirement pension payable from 1 April 2007.
Column (3) is the transfer value of the pension in column (1) calculated as at 31 March 2007 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant group pension scheme in accordance with UK actuarial guidance note GN11.  
Column (4) is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2006 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
Column (5) is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by the director.
Column (6) is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising (i) the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and (ii) where appropriate the effect of pay changes in “real”
(inflation adjusted) terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.  In Messrs Peace and Tyler’s cases, the additional pension represents the increase in immediate pension with allowance for inflation.
Column (7) represents the transfer value of the pension in column (6).
The disclosures in columns (1) to (5) are equivalent to those required by the UK Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations and those in columns (6) and (7) are those required by the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules.  
Pension in
payment at
1 April 2007
(1)
£’000 pa
Accrued 
pension at 
31 March 2006
(2)
£'000 pa
Transfer 
value at 
31 March 2007
(3)
£'000
Transfer 
value at
31 March 2006
(4)
£'000
Change in
transfer value
(less director’s
contributions)
(5)
£’000
Additional 
pension accrued to 
31 March 2007 
(net of inflation)
(6)
£'000 pa
Transfer value 
of the increase 
(less director’s
contributions)
(7)
£’000
Accrued 
pension at
31 March 2007
per annum
(1)
$’000 pa
Accrued 
pension at 
31 March 2006
per annum
(2)
$'000 pa
Transfer 
value at 31
March 2007
(3)
$'000
Transfer 
value at
31 March 2006
(4)
$'000
Change in
transfer value
(less director’s
contributions)
(5)
$’000
Additional 
pension earned to 
31 March 2007 
(net of inflation)
per annum
(6)
$'000 pa
Transfer value 
of the increase 
(less director’s
contributions)
(7)
$’000
Name
Name 58 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
Report on directors’ remuneration cont.
11. Directors' service contracts  
In accordance with Don Robert’s service agreement with Experian Services Corporation (ESC) dated 7 August 2006, if his employment is
terminated by ESC without cause he is entitled to the following severance payments: continued payment of monthly salary for 12 months from
the termination date; 12 months’ participation in welfare benefit plans in which he participated during his employment; and an annual bonus
based on a 100% achievement of objectives payable in equal monthly instalments for 12 months. The same amounts are payable by ESC if 
Don Robert terminates the contract: (i) following material breach by ESC; or (ii) for Good Reason following change of control of ESC. Good Reason
means during the six month period following a change of control, a material and substantial adverse reduction or change in Don Robert’s position.  
Don Robert’s service agreement also provides for the following payments to be made if the agreement terminates in the event of Don Robert’s
death (in addition to payments due but unpaid before death); a pro rata annual bonus for the bonus year to the termination date based on
ESC’s performance in that bonus year; and a lump sum equal to 12 months’ base salary to be paid no later than 90 days after the date of
death.  If the employment is terminated due to Don Robert’s disability he is entitled to the bonus as described immediately above (in
addition to payments due but unpaid before the termination). Any deferred compensation obligations with respect to Don Robert will be
governed in accordance with the relevant plan rules.  
In his service agreement dated 2 April 2007, upon termination of employment at the absolute discretion of Experian Group Limited, 
Paul Brooks may be paid base salary alone, pension contributions and benefits in kind (excluding bonus or incentive payments unless the
Company in its absolute discretion determines otherwise) in lieu of six months’ notice (where notice is given by Paul Brooks) or 12 months’
notice (where notice is given by Experian Group Limited).
Save for the benefits described above, the service contracts of each of the executive directors do not provide for any benefits on the
termination of employment.  
12. Combined Code
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in accordance with the principles of good governance and the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council.
13. Shareholding guideline
Each of the executive directors meets the Committee’s guideline that, as a minimum, the Chief Executive Officer should hold the equivalent
of two times his base salary in Experian Group Limited shares and other executive directors one times their base salary, including shares
held under the Co-investment and Reinvestment plans. 
14. Directors' interests
The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-beneficial interests, in the Ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Share options granted to directors, awards under the Performance Share Plan and the contingent interests in matching shares under the
Co-investment and Reinvestment Plans are shown on pages 53 to 56. The directors have no interests in the debentures of the Company 
or in any shares or debentures of the Company's subsidiaries.
Experian Group Limited GUS shares at 
31 March 2007 10 October 2006
Chairman
John Peace 745,943 684,126
Executive directors
Don Robert
(2)
369,943 240,449
Paul Brooks
(2)
103,709 103,709
Non-executive directors
Fabiola Arredondo – –
Laurence Danon ––
Roger Davis 20,000 –
Alan Jebson – –
Sir Alan Rudge  13,585 13,585
David Tyler 590,069 590,069
Notes:
1. For regulatory purposes, as at 22 May 2007, there had been no changes in the above interests.  
2. The number of Experian Shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks reflects shares awarded to them under the legacy GUS North America Co-investment Plan in lieu of annual bonus. 
Don Robert and Paul Brooks have an unconditional right to receive Experian Shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period. Prior to receipt they do not have dividend or voting rights in respect of such shares.
On behalf of the Board Remuneration Committee
Charles Brown
Company Secretary
22 May 2007 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the Company financial statements
and the Report on Directors’ Remuneration in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group and the profit or loss of the Group and a true and fair
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 60 to 132, appropriate accounting policies have been consistently
applied, supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted
for use in the European Union and, with regard to the Company’s financial statements, that all accounting standards which they consider
applicable have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the
financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with
applicable law and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Company financial statements and the Report on Directors’ Remuneration comply
with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 as applicable. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group
and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company has a website which contains up to date information on Group activities and published financial results. The directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the Company’s website. Jersey legislation, and United
Kingdom regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ from requirements in other jurisdictions.
Relevant audit information
As at 22 May 2007, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditors in
connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all steps that he/she ought to have
taken as a director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of
that information.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgment at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable
expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 59
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance | Financial statements
  Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2007
60 | Experian Annual Report 2007
2007 2006
(Represented)
(Note 2)
Notes US$m US$m
Revenue 3 3,481 3,064
Cost of sales (1,681) (1,507)
Gross profit 1,800 1,557
Distribution costs (301) (272)
Administrative expenses (1,026) (699)
Operating expenses (1,327) (971)
Operating profit 473 586
Finance income 103 146
Finance expense (249) (248)
Net financing costs 8 (146) (102)
Share of post-tax profits of associates 67 66
Profit before tax 3 394 550
Group tax expense 9 (68) (92)
Profit after tax for the financial year from continuing operations 326 458
Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 10 137 606
Profit for the financial year 463 1,064
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders in the parent company 462 1,018
Minority interests 1 46
Profit for the financial year 463 1,064
Earnings per share 12 cents cents
– Basic 49.9 107.5
– Diluted 49.3 105.8
Earnings per share from continuing operations 12 cents cents
– Basic 35.1 48.4
– Diluted 34.7 47.6
Non-GAAP measures 2007 2006
Reconciliation of profit before tax to Benchmark PBT US$m US$m
Profit before tax 3 394 550
exclude: exceptional items 7 162 7
exclude: amortisation of acquisition intangibles 7 76 66
exclude: goodwill adjustment 7 14 –
exclude: charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 7 24 –
exclude: financing fair value remeasurements 7 35 2
exclude: tax expense on share of profit of associates 3 9 2
Benchmark PBT – continuing operations 3 714 627
Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations 12 cents cents
– Basic 59.7 54.5
– Diluted 59.1 53.6
cents cents
Full year dividend per share 11 17.0 57.5 2007 2006
(Represented)
(Note 2)
Notes US$m US$m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 2,219 5,342
Other intangible assets 14 804 926
Property, plant and equipment 15 519 1,670
Investment in associates 16 286 225
Deferred tax assets 27 103 547
Retirement benefit assets 24 85 31
Trade and other receivables 18 11 89
Other financial assets 25 74 158
4,101 8,988
Current assets
Inventories 17 4 1,538
Trade and other receivables 18 794 1,830
Current tax assets 17 207
Other financial assets 25 53 10
Cash and cash equivalents 19 907 385
1,775 3,970
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (1,031) (2,421)
Loans and borrowings 21 (1,025) (303)
Current tax liabilities (166) (481)
Provisions 23 (9) (155)
Other financial liabilities 25 – (37)
(2,231) (3,397)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (456) 573
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (52) (144)
Loans and borrowings 21 (1,348) (3,599)
Deferred tax liabilities 27 (68) (350)
Provisions 23 (30) –
Other financial liabilities 25 (40) (14)
(1,538) (4,107)
Net assets 2,107 5,454
Equity
Share capital 28 102 88
Share premium 28 1,435 16,256
Retained earnings 28 16,341 5,683
Other reserves 28 (15,773) (16,575)
Total shareholders’ equity 2,105 5,452
Minority interests in equity 28 2 2
Total equity 28 2,107 5,454
The financial statements on pages 60 to 119  were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
John Peace
Director
Group balance sheet
at 31 March 2007
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 61 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2007 2006
(Represented)
(Note 2)
US$m US$m
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity
Cash flow hedges (10) (4)
Net investment hedge 84 (16)
Reversal of Home Retail Group net investment hedge 4–
Fair value gains on available for sale financial assets – 4
Actuarial gains in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 65 13
Currency translation differences 465 (439)
Recycled cumulative exchange loss in respect of divestments – 5
Tax (charge)/credit in respect of items taken directly to equity (7) 9
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity (note 28) 601 (428)
Profit for the financial year 463 1,064
Total income recognised for the year 1,064 636
Total income recognised for the year attributable to:
Equity shareholders in the parent company 1,063 609
Minority interests 1 27
Total income recognised for the year 1,064 636
Cumulative adjustment for the implementation of IAS 39 attributable to:
Equity shareholders in the parent company – 18
Minority interests – 4
Total – 22
Group statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 March 2007
62 | Experian Annual Report 2007 2007 2006
(Represented)
(Note 2)
Notes US$m US$m
Cash generated from operations 29(a) 942 874
Interest paid 29(b) (133) (179)
Interest received 27 68
Dividends received from associates 39 48
Tax paid (121) (32)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 754 779
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (114) (62)
Purchase of other intangible assets (161) (150)
Purchase of other financial assets and investments in associates (42) (41)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 29(c) (118) (1,420)
Disposal of subsidiaries 29(d) 258 643
Net cash flows used in investing activities (177) (1,030)
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of ESOP shares (75) (65)
Issue of Ordinary shares 1,525 52
Receipt of share option proceeds and sale of own shares 59 36
New borrowings 29(e) – 647
Repayment of borrowings 29(e) (1,423) (63)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (4) (2)
Net receipts from derivatives held to manage currency profile 39 13
Equity dividends paid (401) (508)
Net cash flows (used in)/generated from financing activities (280) 110
Exchange and other movements 166 (20)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – continuing operations 463 (161)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – discontinued operations:
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – discontinued operations 550 (188)
Cash held by Home Retail Group at demerger (518) –
32 (188)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 495 (349)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 139 488
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 495 (349)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 29(f) 634 139
Non-GAAP measures 2007 2006
Reconciliation of net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt US$m US$m
Net debt at 1 April – as reported (3,437) (2,688)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 495 (349)
Decrease/(Increase) in debt 1,427 (658)
Debt held by Home Retail Group at demerger 435 –
Exchange and other movements (including movements in respect of debt) (328) 258
Net debt at the end of the financial year (note 22) (1,408) (3,437)
Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March 2007
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 63 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
64 | Experian Annual Report 2007
1. Corporate information
Experian Group Limited (the ‘Company’), which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey
under the Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares. The shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange’s
market for listed securities (‘the London Stock Exchange’). Experian is a business services group. 
The consolidated financial statements for the Group were approved by the Board on 22 May 2007. 
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Group financial statements are presented in US Dollars as this is the most representative currency of the Group’s operations. The financial
statements are rounded to the nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial
instruments. The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 4.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the financial statements of Experian
Group Limited are included within the Group annual report and they are set out on pages 121 to 132. These are presented in Pounds Sterling as
that is the functional currency of that Company. In determining its functional currency, the directors have taken account of the fact that the
assets and liabilities and cash flows of Experian Group Limited are primarily denominated in Pounds Sterling. The Company has elected to prepare
its financial statements under UK accounting standards.
The consolidated financial statements of Experian Group Limited and its subsidiary undertakings (‘Experian’) are prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted for use in the European Union (the ‘EU’). These are those standards, subsequent
amendments and related interpretations issued and adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) that have been endorsed
by the European Union. Although Experian Group Limited is incorporated and registered in Jersey under the Jersey Companies Law, the Group
financial statements include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting
under IFRS. 
On 10 October 2006, the separation of Experian and Home Retail Group was completed by way of demerger. As part of the demerger, Experian
Group Limited became the ultimate holding company of GUS plc and related subsidiaries and shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the
London Stock Exchange on 6 October 2006. Trading of shares in Experian Group Limited on the London Stock Exchange commenced on
11 October 2006. 
The demerger transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. Accordingly, following the guidance regarding the selection
of an appropriate accounting policy provided by IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’, the transaction has been
accounted for in these financial statements using the principles of merger accounting set out in FRS 6 ‘Acquisitions and Mergers’ and UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). This policy, which does not conflict with IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the
transaction. The distribution to GUS plc shareholders of shares in Home Retail Group plc has been accounted for as a dividend in specie in these
financial statements.
In accordance with the requirements of merger accounting, the comparative information in these Group financial statements has been extracted
from the GUS Group’s statutory financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006. Those financial statements incorporated the results of
GUS plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year then ended with the exception of Homebase where the GUS Group included its
results for the financial year to the end of February. This was done to facilitate comparability to avoid distortions related to the timing of Easter.
The statutory financial statements of GUS plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 were reported in Pounds Sterling but, to provide comparability
with the presentation currency of the Group, they are now represented in US Dollars.
In addition this information has been further represented as follows:
(a) the results of Home Retail Group have been reclassified as a discontinued operation in the Group income statement and the Group cash
flow statement as required by IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’;
(b) there has been a reallocation of costs between cost of sales and operating expenses in the Group income statement to reflect the policies
adopted in the preparation of the historical financial information for the Experian prospectus which provides a more appropriate
classification of such items. The effect of this is to increase cost of sales and reduce operating expenses for the year ended 31 March 2006
by US$112m, with no effect on reported profit for the financial year; and
(c) there has been a reclassification of derivatives in the Group cash flow statement in order to more fairly state operating cash flows and to
reflect the approach adopted in the preparation of the historical financial information for the Experian prospectus. The effect of this has
been to increase net cash inflow from operating activities by US$70m, to reduce net cash flow generated from financing activities by
US$50m and to separately report an outflow for exchange and other movements of US$20m. The reduction in net cash flow generated
from financing activities comprises a reduction of US$63m in the cash inflow from new borrowings and a US$13m reclassification to
separately identify net receipts from derivatives held to manage the Group’s currency profile.
  Experian Annual Report 2007  | 65
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently
applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They cease to be consolidated from the date that
the Group no longer has control. Under the requirements of IFRS 3 all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Group’s consolidation. The
consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year
ended 31 March 2007.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in
note O to the parent company financial statements.
Associates 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and
50% of the voting rights. The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Group’s share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet. The Group’s share of its
associates’ post-acquisition after tax profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in
equity is recognised in the Group’s equity. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the
investment. The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying
amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates
and discounts, including the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development
and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided. Subscription revenues, and
revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight
line basis over those periods. Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the
work. Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery. Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis
over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total
revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element. Where the elements are not
capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a
straight line basis over the Ncontract period.
Foreign currency translation
Presentation currency
The Group’s financial statements are presented in US Dollars. 
Transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the exchange rate prevailing on the date
of the transaction. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange
rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Translation differences on monetary items are taken to net financing costs in the Group income
statement except when deferred in equity, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial instruments are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss in equity.
Group undertakings
The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US Dollars are translated into US Dollars as follows:
• Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date;
• Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of
the transactions); and
• All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency
instruments, primarily foreign exchange contracts, designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity. Tax charges and credits
attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised
in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity
are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Share-based payments
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ applies to equity instruments, such as share options granted since 7 November 2002. The Group elected to adopt full
retrospective application of the standard on all share options and awards granted to employees before 7 November 2002 but not vested at the date
of transition to IFRS (1 April 2004). 
The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans. These include awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited
made at or after demerger together with awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into awards in respect of
shares in Experian Group Limited at demerger. The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised as an expense in the income statement on
a straight line basis over the vesting period after taking into account the Group’s best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The
Group revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date. Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates. Expenses
are incurred over the vesting period. Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo model and
closing market price is most appropriate to the award. Market based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant
date and are not revised for actual performance.
Goodwill
Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable net
assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition. Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date. Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the
accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the balance sheet. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the
carrying amount of the investment. Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment. The allocation
is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. Where the
recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Group income
statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the
basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable
or arising from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably. Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are
capitalised at cost. Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a
number of criteria are satisfied. These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of
adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit. 
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives. The carrying values of intangible
assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. If impaired
the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use. Value-in-use is determined by reference to
projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Databases and computer software
Databases
Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs
of internally developed databases. 
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years. 
Computer software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software. Computer
software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate
economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised
on a straight line basis over three to five years. Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
66 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 67
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
Acquisition intangibles
Trade marks and licences 
Trade marks and licences are carried at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of 20 years.
Trade names
Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and
amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on management’s expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Customer relationships
Contractual and non-contractual customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and
amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on management’s estimates of the average lives of customer relationships.
Completed technology
The fair value of completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised as an intangible asset. Completed technology is
held at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on the expected life of the asset.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Land is not depreciated.
Equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life and period of the lease. 
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on
prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows:
• Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years;
• Leasehold premises with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease; and
• Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over two to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Contingent consideration
Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of the acquisition initially recorded includes a
reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future. The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when
revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a
reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable in the future. The proceeds are adjusted when revised
estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to debtors, and profit and loss on disposal, until the ultimate outcome is known.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and carried at the lower of fair value (original invoice amount) and recoverable amount. Where
the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of receivables. Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables is recognised in the Group income statement immediately.
Available for sale assets
Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in any of the other financial
asset categories. Available for sale assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of
the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale assets are recognised directly in equity. On
disposal or impairment of the assets, the gains and losses in equity are recycled through the income statement. At each balance sheet date, the
Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale assets are impaired. In the case of equity securities, a significant
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired. If any such
evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the
Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
Borrowings and borrowing costs
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they
are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship. Initial differences between the proceeds of fixed rate borrowings and the redemption values
are recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. Borrowings that are subject to a
fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost adjusted for the change in fair value attributable to hedged risks.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12
months after the balance sheet date.
Incremental borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the
borrowing using the effective interest rate method. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and social
security obligations in respect of share-based payments. Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency
swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Derivatives are recognised at cost, being the fair value at the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to net financing costs over the period of the
contract. The interest differential reflected in forward foreign exchange contracts is taken to net financing costs.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, if so, the
nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as:
• Fair value hedges – hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment; or
• Cash flow hedges – hedges of highly probable forecast transactions; or
• Net investment hedges – hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged
items. This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge has remained
and will continue to remain highly effective. Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of recognised
income and expense.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting.
Fair value hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Group income
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The ineffective
portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. The
gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately within cost of sales or operating expenses, as appropriate, in the Group
income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item will affect the income
statement. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and
losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a
hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in
equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is transferred immediately to
the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised
in equity; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group
income statement. Costs in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with National Insurance liabilities on employee share incentive
schemes are charged as an employment cost; other changes are charged within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income
statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics
are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in
the Group income statement.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on
the balance sheet date. The appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price and for financial assets the current
bid price.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
68 | Experian Annual Report 2007 2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions
that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date. Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for
long-term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial
instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange
contracts is determined using forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments
of short-term trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values. The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by
discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse
effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group’s Treasury function seeks to reduce the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks. It also ensures
surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity,
whilst maximising returns. It does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements. It operates
policies and procedures which are periodically reviewed and approved by the directors and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit reviews.
Up to and including the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group transacted primarily in Pounds Sterling. The hedging and risk management
strategies pursued for the years then ended reflected this. Policies adopted since demerger reflect the significance of its US Dollar operations. 
Market risk
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk, primarily with respect to Pounds Sterling and the Euro. Foreign
exchange risk arises from recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Group has investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency exposure arising from
the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies and the
use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net debt at rates that are fixed for more than one year. The Group’s
interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of
fixed and floating rate liabilities. It also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations. 
Credit risk
In the case of deposits and derivative financial instruments, the Group is exposed to a credit risk, which results from the non-performance of
contractual agreements on the part of the contract party. This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such
contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation. Dealing activity is closely controlled
and counterparty positions are monitored regularly. The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not
considered to be significant. There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, as the Group has a large
number of customers, internationally dispersed, with no concentration on particular industries or markets. The Group has implemented policies that
require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit. The maximum credit risk of financial assets is represented by the
carrying value of the asset net of any applicable provision for impairment.
Liquidity risk
The Group maintains long-term committed facilities that are managed to ensure it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned
expansions.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the
amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs
to sell, and value-in-use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable
cash flows (CGUs).
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet. For the purposes
of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 69 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the
Group financial statements. However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of
the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when:
• The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events;
• It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and
• The amount has been reliably estimated. 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be
required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow
with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligation may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used,
the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Leases
Finance leases
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum
lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance
outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables. The interest element of the finance cost is
charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the
liability for each period.
Operating leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. Incentives
from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits
Defined benefit pension arrangements
The pension liability recognised in the Group balance sheet, in respect of such arrangements, is the present value of the defined benefit obligation
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at
the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms
to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the Group
statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the
employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line
basis over the vesting period. 
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation
less expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Defined contribution pension arrangements
The assets of defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The pension cost
recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions paid by the Group to these funds over the year.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
70 | Experian Annual Report 2007 2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
Other post-employment obligations – Post-retirement healthcare costs
The Group operates schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependent relatives. The
principal scheme relates to former employees in the UK and, under this scheme, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement
healthcare insurance for all eligible former employees and their dependants who retired prior to 1 April 1994.
The expected cost of these benefits is calculated using an actuarial methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension arrangements. Actuarial
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of recognised
income and expense. The obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of
revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on
management’s best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The
estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the
next financial year are discussed below.
Taxes
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes as
there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The
Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different
from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred
tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension benefits
The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of
return on the relevant plan assets and the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group’s
balance sheet and income statement.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the
expected returns on each main asset type (based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date).
The Group has determined the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of
estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the
Group has considered the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid,
and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates
and additional information is disclosed in note 24.
Fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using
valuation techniques. The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market
conditions existing at each balance sheet date. 
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment. The allocation is made to those CGUs or
groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. 
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be
impaired. The recoverable amount of each CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period. The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average
growth rate for the businesses in which the segment operates.
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations for all CGUs are:
• Budgeted gross margin;
• Weighted average real growth rate of 2.25% used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period; and
• Pre-tax discount rate of 11.4% applied to the pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development. The weighted
average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount rates used reflect the Group’s post-tax
weighted average cost of capital of 8%.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 71 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued).
Share-based payments
The Group has a number of equity settled share-based payment arrangements in existence. The assumptions used in determining the amounts
charged in the Group income statement include judgements in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future
share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns. 
Critical judgements
Management has made certain judgements in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies set out above that have a significant effect
on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements. These include the classification of transactions between the Group income
statement and the Group balance sheet. These accounting policy descriptions indicate where judgement needs exercising.
The most significant of these judgements is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal
project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met. Management has made certain judgements and assumptions when assessing whether a
project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects. On acquisition, specific intangible
assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives. These include such items as
brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition. The capitalisation of these assets and the related
amortisation charges are based on uncertain judgements about the value and economic life of such items. The economic lives for intangible
assets are estimated at between 3 and 7 years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated
software, and 2 and 10 years for acquisition intangibles.
Recent accounting developments
The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (‘IFRIC’) are effective for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007:
• IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures‘ and amendments to IAS 1’Presentation of Financial Statements - Capital Disclosures’;
• IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’
(*)
;
• IAS 23 ‘Amendment to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’;
• IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’;
• IFRIC 9 ‘Re-assessment of embedded derivatives’;
• IFRIC 10 ‘Interim financial reporting and impairment’
(*)
;
• IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions’
(*)
;
• IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements’
(*)
.
(*) These standards are still subject to adoption by the EU.
These changes are not expected to have a material effect on the results and net assets of Experian. A number of the developments will lead to
additional disclosures.
Use of non-GAAP measures
The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business. The measures are not
defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies’ adjusted measures. The non-GAAP measures are not
intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to
be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance. 
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group:
Benchmark Profit before Tax (‘Benchmark PBT’)
Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-
related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements and taxation. It includes the Group’s share of associates’
pre-tax profit.
Earnings before Interest and Tax (‘EBIT’)
EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity
incentive plans, exceptional items, net financing costs and taxation. It includes the Group’s share of associates’ pre-tax profit.
Benchmark Earnings per Share (‘Benchmark EPS’)
Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark PBT less attributable taxation and minority interests divided by the weighted average number of shares in
issue, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Exceptional items
The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Group’s underlying performance. Exceptional items are those
arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses or closure costs of material business units. All other restructuring costs are charged
against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Net debt
Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents. Total debt includes loans and borrowings (and the fair value of derivatives
hedging loans and borrowings), overdrafts and obligations under finance leases. Interest payable on borrowings is excluded from net debt.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
72 | Experian Annual Report 2007 3. Segmental information
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular
economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third
parties. There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Group’s results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as
hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables. They exclude tax assets, cash, investments and derivatives designated as hedges of
borrowings which are included within Central activities.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities (including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions). They exclude items
such as tax, borrowings and related hedging derivatives which are included within Central activities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions
through business combinations.
The primary and secondary segmental reporting formats for Experian are outlined below. In addition the segmental information includes
discontinued operations. These comprise the businesses of Home Retail Group, Burberry and Lewis which were all individual segments for GUS
plc but were either demerged from or sold by GUS plc prior to the flotation of Experian. 
Additional information in respect of discontinued operations is shown in note 10.
Primary reporting format for Experian – geographical segments
At 31 March 2007, Experian is organised on a worldwide basis into three core geographies:
• Americas (North America and South America);
• UK & Ireland; and
• Europe, Middle East and Africa (‘EMEA’)/Asia Pacific.
In addition unallocated corporate head office costs, which include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions, are reported as
Central activities.
Secondary reporting format for Experian – business segments
Experian operates across four key business segments:
• Credit Services; 
• Decision Analytics;
• Marketing Solutions; and 
• Interactive. 
In addition unallocated corporate head office costs, which include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions, are reported as
Central activities.
Credit Services acquires, processes and manages large and complex databases containing the credit histories of consumers and businesses and
also operates business processing outsourcing services, mainly in France, helping banks and other clients with back office functions.
Decision Analytics builds on the Credit Services database information and helps clients by applying analytical tools and software to convert data
held internally and other data into usable business information.
Marketing Solutions helps clients to acquire new customers and to manage their relationships with existing customers. By appending hundreds of
characteristics to the credit and marketing data held in databases, Marketing Solutions provides clients with information designed to assist them
in matching the right offer or product to the relevant customer using the most appropriate communication channels.
Interactive helps customers to understand and manage their own financial information and assets as well as to make more informed purchase
decisions in areas such as financial services, shopping and education and to connect them with companies over the Internet.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 73 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
3. Segmental information (continued)
Geographical segments
(a) Income statement
Year ended 31 March 2007
Continuing operations
Americas UK & EMEA/ Central Total Discontinued Total
Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations
3
Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Revenue
1
Total revenue 1,994 907 591 – 3,492 5,468 8,960
Inter-segment revenue
2
– (11) – – (11) – (11)
Revenue from external customers 1,994 896 591 – 3,481 5,468 8,949
Profit
Operating profit/(loss) 432 176 68 (203) 473 212 685
Net financing income/(costs) – – – (146) (146) 16 (130)
Share of post-tax profits of associates 67 – – – 67 – 67
Profit/(loss) before tax 499 176 68 (349) 394 228 622
Group tax expense (68) (91) (159)
Profit for the financial year 326 137 463
Reconciliation from EBIT to Profit/(loss)
before tax – continuing operations
EBIT 562 236 74 (47) 825
Net interest – – – (111) (111)
Benchmark PBT 562 236 74 (158) 714
Exceptional items (note 7) 15 (26) – (151) (162)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (45) (27) (4) – (76)
Goodwill adjustment (14) – – – (14)
Charges in respect of the demerger-
related equity incentive plans (10) (7) (2) (5) (24)
Financing fair value remeasurements – – – (35) (35)
Tax expense on share of profit of associates (9) – – – (9)
Profit/(loss) before tax 499 176 68 (349) 394
1. Revenue from continuing operations arose principally from the provision of services. Revenue from discontinued operations arose principally
from the sale of goods. Revenue within the UK & Ireland geographical segment includes US$11m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued
operations.
2. Inter-segment revenue represents the provision of services between Experian and discontinued operations.
3. Additional information on discontinued operations, which comprise Home Retail Group, together with a tax charge in respect of disposals, is
shown in note 10. The results of discontinued operations are in respect of businesses operating within the UK & Ireland geographical segment.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
74 | Experian Annual Report 2007 3. Segmental information (continued)
(b) Balance sheet at 31 March 2007 Continuing operations
Americas UK & EMEA/ Central Total
Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Total segment assets 2,776 1,092 614 364 4,846
Less: segment liabilities (535) (318) (195) (169) (1,217)
Segment net assets 2,241 774 419 195 3,629
Net debt (1,408)
Tax (114)
Group net assets 2,107
Segment net assets for Central activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and derivative assets 
and liabilities.
(c) Other Continuing operations
Americas UK & EMEA/ Central Total Discontinued Total
Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Benchmark PBT is stated after 
charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment (note 15) 36 29 12 2 79 134 213
Amortisation of intangible assets 
(note 14) 147 59 20 – 226 11 237
Benchmark PBT includes:
Share of profit of associates 61 – – – 61 – 61
Segment net assets includes:
Goodwill 1,376 524 319 – 2,219 – 2,219
Investment in associates 277 – 9 – 286 – 286
Capital expenditure 168 67 40 – 275 173 448
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 75 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
3. Segmental information (continued)
Geographical segments
(a) Income statement
Year ended 31 March 2006 Continuing operations
Americas UK & EMEA/ Central Total Discontinued Total
Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations
3
Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Revenue
1
Total revenue 1,804 758 522 – 3,084 11,086 14,170
Inter-segment revenue
2
– (20) – – (20) – (20)
Revenue from external customers 1,804 738 522 – 3,064 11,086 14,150
Profit
Operating profit/(loss) 365 197 62 (38) 586 835 1,421
Net financing income/(costs) – – – (102) (102) 33 (69)
Share of post-tax profits of associates 66 – – – 66 – 66
Profit/(loss) before tax 431 197 62 (140) 550 868 1,418
Group tax expense (92) (262) (354)
Profit for the financial year 458 606 1,064
Reconciliation from EBIT to Profit/(loss)
before tax – continuing operations
EBIT 479 215 64 (31) 727
Net interest – – – (100) (100)
Benchmark PBT 479 215 64 (131) 627
Exceptional items (note 7) – – – (7) (7)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (46) (18) (2) – (66)
Financing fair value remeasurements – – – (2) (2)
Tax expense on share of profit of associates (2) – – – (2)
Profit/(loss) before tax 431 197 62 (140) 550
1. Revenue from continuing operations arose principally from the provision of services. Revenue from discontinued operations arose principally
from the sale of goods. Revenue within the UK & Ireland geographical segment includes US$20m of inter-segment revenue with
discontinued operations.
2. Inter-segment revenue represents the provision of services between Experian and discontinued operations.
3. Discontinued operations comprise the businesses Home Retail Group, Burberry and Lewis. The most significant of these segments, Home Retail
Group, principally operated in the UK & Ireland geographical segment. Discontinued operations include the results of Homebase for the year
ended 28 February 2006. Additional information on discontinued operations is shown in note 10.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
76 | Experian Annual Report 2007 3. Segmental information (continued)
(b) Balance sheet at 31 March 2006 Continuing operations
Americas UK & EMEA/ Central Total Discontinued Total
Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Total segment assets 2,727 906 501 408 4,542 7,196 11,738
Less: segment liabilities (503) (251) (162) (119) (1,035) (1,735) (2,770)
Segment net assets 2,224 655 339 289 3,507 5,461 8,968
Net debt (3,437)
Tax (77)
Group net assets 5,454
Segment net assets for Central activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and derivative assets 
and liabilities.
(c) Other Continuing operations
Americas UK & EMEA/ Central Total Discontinued Total
Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Benchmark PBT is stated after 
charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment (note 15) 36 20 11 3 70 243 313
Amortisation of intangible assets 
(note 14) 143 41 16 – 200 32 232
Benchmark PBT includes:
Share of profit of associates 68 – – – 68 – 68
Segment net assets includes:
Goodwill 1,356 441 273 – 2,070 3,272 5,342
Investment in associates 225 – – – 225 – 225
Capital expenditure 129 43 32 8 212 494 706
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 77 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
3. Segmental information (continued)
Business segments
(a) Income statement
Year ended 31 March 2007 Continuing operations
Credit Decision Marketing Central Total Discontinued Total
Services Analytics Solutions Interactive activities continuing operations
3
Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Revenue
1
Total revenue 1,584 392 728 788 – 3,492 5,468 8,960
Inter-segment revenue
2
(11) – – – – (11) – (11)
Revenue from external customers 1,573 392 728 788 – 3,481 5,468 8,949
Profit
Operating profit/(loss) 402 130 28 135 (222) 473 212 685
Net financing income/(costs) – – – – (146) (146) 16 (130)
Share of post-tax profits of 
associates 67 – – – – 67 – 67
Profit/(loss) before tax 469 130 28 135 (368) 394 228 622
Group tax expense (68) (91) (159)
Profit for the financial year 326 137 463
Reconciliation from EBIT to
Profit/(loss) before tax –
continuing operations
EBIT 505 136 64 167 (47) 825
Net interest – – – – (111) (111)
Benchmark PBT 505 136 64 167 (158) 714
Exceptional items (note 7) (11) – – – (151) (162)
Amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles (16) (1) (27) (32) – (76)
Goodwill adjustment – (5) (9) – – (14)
Charges in respect of the demerger-
related equity incentive plans
4
–––– (24) (24)
Financing fair value 
remeasurements – – – – (35) (35)
Tax expense on share of profit of 
associates (9) – – – – (9)
Profit/(loss) before tax 469 130 28 135 (368) 394
1. Revenue from continuing operations arose principally from the provision of services. Revenue from discontinued operations arose principally
from the sale of goods. Revenue from Credit Services included US$11m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
2. Inter-segment revenue represents the provision of services between Experian and discontinued operations.
3. Discontinued operations comprise Home Retail Group. Additional information on discontinued operations is given in note 10.
4. No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is
maintained only to provide an allocation by geographical segment.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
78 | Experian Annual Report 2007 3. Segmental information (continued)
Year ended 31 March 2006 Continuing operations
Credit Decision Marketing Central Total Discontinued Total
Services Analytics Solutions Interactive activities continuing operations
3
Group
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Revenue
1
Total revenue 1,504 325 627 628 – 3,084 11,086 14,170
Inter-segment revenue
2
(20) – – – – (20) – (20)
Revenue from external customers 1,484 325 627 628 – 3,064 11,086 14,150
Profit
Operating profit/(loss) 395 102 41 86 (38) 586 835 1,421
Net financing income/(costs) – – – – (102) (102) 33 (69)
Share of post-tax profits of associates 66 – – – – 66 – 66
Profit/(loss) before tax 461 102 41 86 (140) 550 868 1,418
Group tax expense (92) (262) (354)
Profit for the financial year 458 606 1,064
Reconciliation from EBIT
to Profit/(loss) before tax –
continuing operations
EBIT 477 102 57 122 (31) 727
Net interest – – – – (100) (100)
Benchmark PBT 477 102 57 122 (131) 627
Exceptional items (note 7) – – – – (7) (7)
Amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles (14) – (16) (36) – (66)
Financing fair value 
remeasurements – – – – (2) (2)
Tax expense on share of profit 
of associates (2) – – – – (2)
Profit/(loss) before tax 461 102 41 86 (140) 550
1. Revenue from continuing operations arose principally from the provision of services. Revenue from discontinued operations arose principally
from the sale of goods. Revenue from Credit Services includes US$20m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
2. Inter-segment revenue represents the provision of services between Experian and discontinued operations.
3. Discontinued operations comprise the businesses Home Retail Group, Burberry and Lewis which were all individual segments. Discontinued
operations include the results of Homebase for the year ended 28 February 2006. Additional information on discontinued operations is given in
note 10.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 79 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
3. Segmental information (continued)
2007 2006
(b) Total segment assets US$m US$m
Continuing operations
Credit Services 1,871 1,652
Decision Analytics 293 242
Marketing Solutions 993 893
Interactive 1,131 1,174
Central activities 558 581
Total continuing operations 4,846 4,542
Discontinued operations – 7,196
Total 4,846 11,738
Total segment assets for Central activities at 31 March 2007 represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit and derivative
assets. In addition to those assets reflected in the geographical analysis, all Group properties are included within Central activities as they are not
allocated by business segment.
2007 2006
(c) Capital expenditure US$m US$m
Continuing operations
Credit Services 182 132
Decision Analytics 9 11
Marketing Solutions 64 48
Interactive 20 13
Central activities – 8
Total continuing operations 275 212
Discontinued operations 173 494
Total 448 706
4. Foreign currency
The principal exchange rates used were as follows:
Average Closing
2007 2006 2007 2006 2005
Sterling to US Dollar 1.89 1.79 1.96 1.74 1.88
Euro to US Dollar 1.29 1.22 1.33 1.22 1.30
Assets and liabilities of undertakings whose functional currency is not the US Dollar are translated into US Dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at
the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated into US Dollars at average rates of exchange (unless this average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the
rates on the dates of the transactions).
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
80 | Experian Annual Report 2007 5. Expenses
2007 2006
US$m US$m
(a) Expenses by nature
Profit before tax is stated after charging:
Net operating lease rental expense 102 91
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 79 70
Amortisation of intangible assets 226 200
Write down on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 10 –
Employee benefit costs (note 6) 1,327 1,128
Research expenditure 5 5
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administration expenses, except for the amortisation of databases which is charged to cost of sales.
(b) Fees payable to the Company’s auditor
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the parent company and
Group financial statements 1 1
Audit of the financial statements of the Group’s UK and overseas subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2 1
Other assurance services, pursuant to legislation, including fees for the review 
of the Group’s interim statement 2 3
Taxation services 4 5
Services in respect of the demerger 19 –
All other services, including regulatory, compliance and treasury related services 2 2
————— —————
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services 29 11
The guidelines covering the use of the Company’s auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement on page 45.
6. Employee benefit costs and employee numbers
(a) The aggregate employee costs for the continuing operations of the Group comprise:
2007 2006
Notes US$m US$m
Wages and salaries 1,025 891
Social security costs 161 148
Share-based payments 31 91 36
Pension costs – defined benefit plans 24 17 26
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 24 33 27
Total continuing operations 1,327 1,128
(b) The average number of employees (including executive directors) in the continuing operations of the Group comprise:
2007 2006
Full time Full time
Full time Part time equivalent Full time Part time equivalent
Americas 5,230 201 5,330 4,796 167 4,879
UK & Ireland 3,745 189 3,840 3,452 201 3,553
EMEA/Asia Pacific 3,248 226 3,361 3,253 229 3,367
Central activities 95 4 97 74 – 74
Total continuing operations 12,318 620 12,628 11,575 597 11,873
Included in the Central activities headcount in 2007 are 25 full time employees, performing group finance and administration tasks, who had
previously been reported within the UK & Ireland segment.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 81 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
82 | Experian Annual Report 2007
6. Employee benefit costs and employee numbers (continued)
(c) Remuneration of key management personnel:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 16 13
Retirement benefits 4 2
Other long-term benefits – 2
Share-based payments 28 11
Total continuing operations 48 28
Key management personnel comprises the board of directors, shown on pages 38 and 39, and certain senior management. The amount included in
respect of share-based payments includes operating and exceptional costs for previous GUS awards and the one–off demerger awards.
Further details of the remuneration of directors are given in the auditable part of the report on directors’ remuneration on pages 52 to 57.
Information on transactions with related parties is set out in note 35.
7. Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Exceptional items
Continuing operations:
Charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 23 –
Other costs incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 126 7
Costs incurred in the closure of UK Account Processing 26 –
Loss on disposal of businesses 2 –
Gain arising in associate on the partial disposal of its subsidiary (15) –
Total exceptional items 162 7
Other non-GAAP measures
Continuing operations:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 76 66
Goodwill adjustment 14 –
Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 24 –
Financing fair value remeasurements (note 8) 35 2
Total other non-GAAP measures 149 68
Exceptional items
Other costs of US$126m (2006: US$7m) incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group comprise legal and professional fees
in respect of the transaction, together with costs in connection with the cessation of the corporate functions of GUS plc in 2007.
In April 2006, Experian announced the phased withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK. The full cost of
withdrawal of US$26m has been charged in the year, and is made up of a cost in cash of US$28m less the benefit of a US$2m pension curtailment
credit. The loss on the disposal of businesses primarily related to the sale of a minority stake in Experian’s South African business.
First American Real Estate Solutions LLC (‘FARES’) recognised a gain of US$77m on the partial disposal of its Real Estate Solutions division as part of
the consideration for the acquisition of 82% of CoreLogic Solutions, Inc. Experian recognised US$15m, its 20% share of the gain. A deferred tax
charge of US$6m has been included in the FARES result in respect of this gain.
Other non-GAAP measures
IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their
useful economic lives. These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition. The
Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on uncertain
judgements about their value and economic life.
A goodwill adjustment of US$14m arose under IFRS3 ‘Business combinations’ on the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses on prior
years’ acquisitions. The corresponding tax benefit reduces the tax charge in the year by US$14m.
Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the
time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans. The cost of these one-off grants will be charged to the Group income statement
over the five years following flotation but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT. The cost of all other grants will be charged to the Group
income statement and will be included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Group’s derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS. Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements
are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within Finance income and Finance expense in the Group income statement. 8. Net financing costs
2007 2006
US$m US$m
(a) Net financing costs comprise:
Interest income:
Bank deposits 10 5
Loan notes (note 18) 1 14
Interest differentials on derivatives 17 45
Expected return on pension scheme assets 68 54
Interest income 96 118
Financing fair value gains:
Fair value gains on non-hedging derivatives 7 23
Ineffective portion of net investment hedges – 5
Financing fair value gains 7 28
Finance income 103 146
Interest expense:
Bank loans and overdrafts 41 64
Eurobonds and notes 112 107
Commitment and facility utilisation fees 2 2
Interest expense on pension scheme liabilities 52 45
Interest expense 207 218
Financing fair value losses:
Ineffective portion of fair value hedges of borrowings 5 5
Fair value losses on non-hedging derivatives 26 –
Foreign exchange transaction losses 11 25
Financing fair value losses 42 30
Finance expense 249 248
Net financing costs 146 102
(b) Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT comprises:
Net financing costs 146 102
Less: financing fair value remeasurements (35) (2)
Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 111 100
(c) Financing fair value remeasurements included in net financing costs comprise:
Financing fair value gains 7 28
Financing fair value losses (42) (30)
Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements (35) (2)
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 83 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
9. Tax expense
2007 2006
US$m US$m
(a) Analysis of expense recognised in the Group Income statement
Current taxation:
UK Corporation tax on income for the year (13) 45
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1) (4)
(14) 41
Non-UK taxation:
Overseas tax on income for the year 39 17
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6) (7)
Total current tax charge for the year 19 51
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53 54
Adjustments in respect of prior years (4) (13)
Total deferred tax charge for the year 49 41
Total tax expense in the Group income statement 68 92
The tax expense comprises:
UK taxation (45) 36
Overseas taxation 113 56
Total tax expense in the Group income statement 68 92
(b) Tax reconciliation
Profit before tax 394 550
Plus: tax on share of profits of associates 9 2
Adjusted profit before tax 403 552
Adjusted profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of Corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2006: 30%) 121 166
Effects of:
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (11) (24)
Income not taxable (10) (11)
Expenses not deductible 39 45
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (16) (2)
Tax on share of profits of associates (9) (2)
Differences in tax rates (34) (54)
Other adjustments (9) (28)
Disposal of businesses (3) 2
Total tax expense in the Group income statement 68 92
The effective tax rate for the year of 17.3% (2006:16.7%), after adjusting for the net income from associates, is lower than the standard rate of
corporation tax in the United Kingdom (30%). The differences are explained above.
(c) The effective rate of tax on Benchmark PBT
The effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT of US$714m (2006: US$627m) is 22.4% (2006: 17.5%).
(d) Tax on items charged to equity
In addition to the amount charged to the Group income statement tax amounting to US$7m (2006:US$9m credit) has been charged directly to
equity, relating mainly to share schemes, actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations and foreign exchange. This includes a credit of
US$11m (2006: US$nil) in respect of current taxation and a charge of US$18m (2006: credit of US$9m) in respect of deferred taxation.
(e) Factors that may affect future tax charges
In the foreseeable future, the Group’s tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which
the Group’s businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
84 | Experian Annual Report 2007 10. Discontinued operations
The results for discontinued operations were as follows:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Revenue:
Home Retail Group (including Wehkamp) 5,468 10,206
Burberry – 844
Lewis Group – 36
Total revenue 5,468 11,086
Operating profit:
Home Retail Group (including Wehkamp) 212 619
Burberry – 168
Lewis Group – 9
Total operating profit 212 796
Net financing income 16 33
Profit before tax of discontinued operations 228 829
Tax charge (74) (262)
Profit after tax of discontinued operations 154 567
Gains/(losses) on disposal of discontinued operations:
Profit on disposal of Lewis Group – 64
Loss on disposal of Wehkamp – (34)
Profit on disposal of shares in Burberry – 18
Costs incurred relating to the demerger of Burberry – (9)
Gains on disposals – 39
Tax charge in respect of disposals (17) –
(Loss)/profit after tax on disposals (17) 39
Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 137 606
In May 2005, the Group announced the sale of its remaining 50% interest in Lewis Group Limited and in December 2005 divested its remaining
65% interest in Burberry Group plc. In January 2006, the Group sold Wehkamp, the leading home shopping brand in the Netherlands. These
operations were classified as discontinued in the financial statements of GUS plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. In October 2006, the net assets
of Home Retail Group were distributed by way of a dividend in specie. As a result, these operations have been reclassified as discontinued.
The tax charge in respect of disposals related to taxation assets no longer recoverable following earlier disposals.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 85 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
10. Discontinued operations (continued)
Earnings before interest and taxation of discontinued businesses are stated after charging:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Cost of sales 3,589 7,034
Operating expenses:
Distribution costs 1,361 2,335
Administrative expenses 306 921
Operating expenses 1,667 3,256
The cash flows attributable to discontinued operations comprise:
From operating activities 705 539
From investing activities (168) (711)
From financing activities (3) (7)
Exchange and other movements 16 (9)
Less: cash held by Home Retail Group at demerger (note 30(b)) (518) –
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations 32 (188)
11. Dividend
2007 2007 2006 2006
cents cents
per share US$m per share US$m
Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to equity holders during the year:
Interim 5.5 55 17.2 147
Final 40.3 346 36.6 361
Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 45.8 401 53.8 508
Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30(b)) 5,627 –
Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Burberry Group plc – 513
Full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 17.0
A dividend of 11.5 cents per Ordinary share will be paid on 27 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2007
and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
Unless shareholders elect by 29 June 2007 to receive US Dollars, their dividends will be paid in Sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of
the exchange rate from US Dollars to Sterling on 6 July 2007.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place as part of the demerger, shareholders in Experian Group Limited are able to elect to
receive their dividends from a UK source (the ‘IAS election’). Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares (i) on the date of admission of
the Company’s shares to the London Stock Exchange and (ii) in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend
record date after they became shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends
under the IAS arrangements. Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must
make an IAS election. All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
The Experian Group Limited Exployee Share Trust and the GUS ESOP Trust have waived their entitlement to dividends in the amount of US$4m
(2006: US$7m). The GUS ESOP Trust did not waive its entitlement to the dividend in specie.
The dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006 were received by shareholders of GUS plc. The final dividend paid in August 2006 and
the dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group were received by shareholders of GUS plc.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
86 | Experian Annual Report 2007 12. Basic and diluted earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted
average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year (excluding own shares held in Treasury in the period prior to the demerger and own shares
held in ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled).
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilutive effect of employee share incentive schemes. The earnings figures used in
the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
The weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2007 includes Ordinary shares of GUS plc in issue to the
date of the demerger and the Ordinary shares of the Company in issue thereafter. The weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during
the year ended 31 March 2006 comprises Ordinary shares of GUS plc in issue and reflects the effect of the share consolidation that took place at
the date of the Burberry demerger in December 2005.
2007 2006
Basic earnings per share: cents cents
Continuing and discontinued operations 49.9 107.5
Exclude: discontinued operations (14.8) (59.1)
Continuing operations 35.1 48.4
Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 24.6 6.1
Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations – non-GAAP measure 59.7 54.5
Diluted earnings per share:
Continuing and discontinued operations 49.3 105.8
Exclude: discontinued operations (14.6) (58.2)
Continuing operations 34.7 47.6
Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 24.4 6.0
Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations – non-GAAP measure 59.1 53.6
2007 2006
Earnings: US$m US$m
Continuing and discontinued operations 462 1,018
Exclude: discontinued operations (137) (560)
Continuing operations 325 458
Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 229 58
Benchmark earnings – non-GAAP measure 554 516
2007 2006
m m
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year 927.3 946.7
Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 9.9 15.0
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year 937.2 961.7
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 87 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
13. Goodwill
Home Retail 
Experian Group Total
US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 2006 2,070 3,272 5,342
Differences on exchange 93 286 379
Additions through business combinations (note 30 (a)) 71 – 71
Reduction in goodwill relating to tax losses (14) – (14)
Demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30(b)) – (3,558) (3,558)
Disposals (1) – (1)
At 31 March 2007 2,219 – 2,219
In accordance with IFRS 3, the goodwill balance has been reduced by US$14m on the recognition of tax losses on prior year acquisitions. A goodwill
adjustment of US$14m has been charged to offset the recognition of a credit in the tax charge for the year. The goodwill adjustment has been
excluded from Benchmark PBT. 
Home Retail 
Experian Group Other Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 2005 1,012 3,455 215 4,682
Differences on exchange (48) (183) (11) (242)
Additions through business combinations 1,124 – 9 1,133
Disposals – – (213) (213)
Transfer to acquisition intangibles (18) –– (18)
At 31 March 2006 2,070 3,272 – 5,342
Experian goodwill at the balance sheet date has been allocated to CGUs as follows: Americas US$1,376m (2006: US$1,356m), UK and Ireland
US$524m (2006: US$441m) and EMEA/Asia Pacific US$319m (2006: US$273m). Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of
allocation and annual impairment testing are given in note 2.
14. Other intangible assets
Internally
Internal use generated Acquisition
Databases software software intangibles* Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 585 355 165 529 1,634
Differences on exchange 24 26 16 24 90
Additions through business combinations (note 30 (a)) 2 – –18 20
Other additions 102 75 42 – 219
Demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30 (b)) – (308) – – (308)
Disposals (47) (11) (5) – (63)
At 31 March 2007 666 137 218 571 1,592
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 April 2006 353 180 90 85 708
Differences on exchange 20 16 9 5 50
Charge for the year 92 45 24 76 237
Demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30(b)) – (150) – – (150)
Disposals (47) (9) (1) – (57)
At 31 March 2007 418 82 122 166 788
Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 232 175 75 444 926
Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 248 55 96 405 804
* Acquisition intangibles represents trade marks and licences, trade names, customer relationships and completed technology.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
88 | Experian Annual Report 2007 14. Other intangible assets (continued)
Internally
Internal use generated Acquisition
Databases software software intangibles* Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 516 370 145 130 1,161
Differences on exchange (14) (20) (9) (13) (56)
Additions through business combinations 2 – – 392 394
Other additions 95 70 34 2 201
Transfer between assets – – – 18 18
Disposal of subsidiaries – (27) – – (27)
Disposals (14) (38) (5) – (57)
At 31 March 2006 585 355 165 529 1,634
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 April 2005 290 184 76 20 570
Differences on exchange (12) (10) (5) (1) (28)
Charge for the year 88 57 21 66 232
Disposal of subsidiaries – (13) – – (13)
Disposals (13) (38) (2) – (53)
At 31 March 2006 353 180 90 85 708
Net Book Value at 31 March 2005 226 186 69 110 591
Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 232 175 75 444 926
* Acquisition intangibles represents trade marks and licences, trade names, customer relationships and completed technology.
15. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold properties
Assets
Freehold Long Short Plant & in course of
properties leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 397 13 684 2,159 54 3,307
Differences on exchange 34 1 51 175 4 265
Additions through business combinations  (note 30 (a)) 3 –– 1– 4
Additions 13 3 32 181 – 229
Transfers between assets – – 22 – (22) –
Demerger of Home Retail Group  (note 30 (b)) (160) (17) (666) (1,907) (36) (2,786)
Disposals – – (8) (46) – (54)
At 31 March 2007 287 – 115 563 – 965
Depreciation
At 1 April 2006 60 4 318 1,255 – 1,637
Differences on exchange 3 – 29 100 – 132
Charge for year 8 1 26 178 – 213
Demerger of Home Retail Group  (note 30 (b)) (16) (5) (347) (1,119) – (1,487)
Disposals – – (7) (42) – (49)
At 31 March 2007 55 – 19 372 – 446
Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 337 9 366 904 54 1,670
Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 232 – 96 191 – 519
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 89 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
15. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Leasehold properties
Assets
Freehold Long Short Plant & in course of
properties leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 564 3 778 2,467 62 3,874
Differences on exchange (25) – (44) (160) (5) (234)
Additions through business combinations – – – 14 – 14
Additions 55 5 91 331 23 505
Transfers between assets – 5 (16) 11 (21) (21)
Disposal of subsidiaries (193) – (118) (295) (5) (611)
Disposals (4) – (7) (209) – (220)
At 31 March 2006 397 13 684 2,159 54 3,307
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 109 – 347 1,458 – 1,914
Differences on exchange (5) – (25) (95) – (125)
Transfers between assets – 4 (7) – – (3)
Charge for the year 13 – 34 266 – 313
Impairments –– 2 21– 23
Disposal of subsidiaries (55) – (29) (193) – (277)
Disposals (2) – (4) (202) – (208)
At 31 March 2006 60 4 318 1,255 – 1,637
Net Book Value at 31 March 2005 455 3 431 1,009 62 1,960
Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 337 9 366 904 54 1,670
The Group leases plant and equipment under a number of finance lease agreements. At the end of each of the leases the Group has the option to
purchase the equipment at a beneficial price. The net book value of assets held under finance leases and capitalised in plant and equipment is
US$nil (2006: US$7m).
16. Investments in associates
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Cost
At 1 April 225 208
Additions 33 12
Impairment of trade or other receivables – (7)
Share of profit after tax including a pre-tax exceptional gain of US$15m (note 7) 67 66
Dividends received (39) (50)
Disposals – (4)
At 31 March 286 225
Investments in associates at 31 March 2007 include goodwill of US$219m (2006: US$186m). The Group’s share of cumulative retained profits of
associated undertakings at 31 March 2007 is US$127m (2006: US$99m).
The Group’s principal interest in associated undertakings is a 20% holding of First American Real Estate Solutions LLC (‘FARES’), a US partnership.
There are no other material interests in associated undertakings. At 31 March 2007, the Group’s share of the assets of FARES amounted to
US$477m (2006: US$374m), and its share of liabilities is US$200m (2006: US$155m). The Group’s share of revenue for the year ended 31 March
2007 is US$249m (2006: US$254m), and its share of profit after tax US$67m (2006: US$66m).
First American Corporation, which holds the balance of the capital of FARES, has the right to acquire from Experian its interest in FARES, at a
purchase price pursuant to a specified formula based on the after tax earnings of FARES. First American may only exercise this right after November
2008. Experian can elect to delay completion of the transaction for a maximum period of 24 months following First American Corporation giving
notice.
The impairment of trade or other receivables of US$7m in the year ended 31 March 2006 related to AA GUS Financial Services NV, an associated
undertaking of Home Retail Group.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
90 | Experian Annual Report 2007 17. Inventories
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Work in progress 2 2
Finished goods 2 1,536
4 1,538
Inventories at 31 March 2007 are stated net of impairment provisions of US$nil (2006: US$197m). The impairment provision at 31 March 2006
related to inventories held by Home Retail Group.
18. Trade and other receivables
Current Non-current Current Non-current
2007 2007 2006 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m
Trade receivables:
Instalment receivables –– 618 58
Other trade receivables 574 – 641 7
Total trade receivables 574 – 1,259 65
Amounts owed by associates 3– 2–
VAT recoverable 1– 17 –
Deferred consideration receivable – – 244 –
Other prepayments and accrued income 216 11 308 24
794 11 1,830 89
Current trade receivables are stated net of provisions of US$30m (2006: US$187m, of which US$162m related to Home Retail Group). Non-current
trade receivables are stated net of provisions of US$nil (2006: US$9m, which wholly related to Home Retail Group).
Instalment receivables at 31 March 2006 were in respect of Home Retail Group and the effective interest rate thereon for that year was 7.7%.
The deferred consideration in respect of the disposal of the home shopping and Reality businesses was received in full in April 2006 from March UK
Limited. Interest income of US$1m (2006: US$14m) arose in the year in respect of this consideration.
The analysis of the maturity profile for financial assets included within non-current items is given in note 26.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 364 233
Short-term Investments 543 152
907 385
The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2007 is 4.4% (2006: 2.7%).
20. Trade and other payables
Current Non-current Current Non-current
2007 2007 2006 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m
Trade creditors 193 – 809 –
VAT and other taxes payable 42 – 125 –
Social security costs 75 – 75 –
Accruals 653 17 1,156 64
Other creditors 68 35 256 80
1,031 52 2,421 144
The analysis of the maturity profile for financial liabilities included within non-current items is given in note 26.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 91 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
92 | Experian Annual Report 2007
21. Loans and borrowings
Current Non-current Current Non-current
2007 2007 2006 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m
e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 – – 688
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 – 721 – 620
£334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 – 627 – 595
Perpetual Securities (issued by Home Retail Group) –– – 386
Bank loans –– 50 1,308
Overdrafts 273 – 245 –
1,024 1,348 295 3,597
Present value of obligations under finance leases 1– 82
1,025 1,348 303 3,599
During the year ended 31 March 2007, 4.125% Euronotes 2007 with a notional value of e20m and 5.625% Euronotes 2013 with a notional value
of £16m were redeemed.
The effective interest rate of Euronotes and Eurobonds approximates to the nominal rate indicated above. The effective interest rate of the Perpetual
Securities is 4.6% (2006: 4.6%). The effective interest rate for overdrafts at 31 March 2007 is 4.3% (2006: 4.9%) and for bank loans at 31 March
2006 was 3.9%.
All the borrowings of the Group shown above are unsecured. Finance lease obligations are effectively secured as the rights to the leased assets
revert to the lessor in the event of default.
The analysis of the maturity profile for non-current items is given in note 26.
2007 2006
The minimum lease payments payable under finance leases comprise: US$m US$m
Not later than one year 1 8
Later than one year and not later than five years – 2
Total minimum lease payments 1 10
Future finance charges on finance leases – –
Present value of finance leases (as shown above) 1 10
The present value of finance leases consists of:
Not later than one year 1 8
Later than one year and not later than five years – 2
Total present value 1 10
On 12 July 2006, GUS plc entered into a 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of US$2,450m. On 17 November 2006, Experian Group Limited
acceded to this facility as a borrower and a guarantor. At the balance sheet date there were no drawings made under this facility.
At 31 March 2007, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$2,450m (2006: US$923m) of which US$nil (2006: US$174m)
expires within one year of the balance sheet date and US$2,450m (2006: US$749m) expires more than two years after the balance sheet date. These
facilities are in place for general corporate purposes including the financing of acquisitions.
22. Analysis of net debt – non-GAAP measure
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Cash and cash equivalents (net of overdrafts) 634 139
Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings (6) 81
Debt due within one year (729) (49)
Finance leases (1) (10)
Debt due after more than one year (1,306) (3,598)
Net debt at the end of the financial year (1,408) (3,437)
Continuing operations (1,408) (3,277)
Discontinued operations – (160)
Net debt at the end of the financial year (1,408) (3,437)
  Experian Annual Report 2007  | 93
23. Provisions
Home Retail
Restructuring Group
provision provisions Total
US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 2006 – 155 155
Differences on exchange 212 14
Amount charged in the year 37 12 49
Utilised – (7) (7)
Impact of discount rate movement –2 2
Demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30 (b)) – (174) (174)
At 31 March 2007 39 – 39
Disclosed within Non-current liabilities 30 – 30
Disclosed within Current liabilities 9– 9
At 31 March 2007 39 – 39
Home Retail
Group
provisions Total
US$m US$m
At 1 April 2005 167 167
Differences on exchange (14) (14)
Amount charged in the year 24 24
Utilised (24) (24)
Impact of discount rate movement 2 2
At 31 March 2006 155 155
Disclosed within Non-current liabilities – –
Disclosed within Current liabilities 155 155
At 31 March 2006 155 155
The restructuring provision at 31 March 2007, disclosed within current liabilities, included the full cost of the restructuring cost of UK Marketing
Solutions, which is expected to be utilised in the year ended 31 March 2008. The restructuring provision at 31 March 2007 of US$30m disclosed
within non-current liabilities comprised the anticipated future costs of the withdrawal by Experian from large scale credit card and loan account
processing in the UK, in respect of which there was a charge of US$28m in the year. This provision comprises the estimated costs of redundancy
and certain contractual obligations in respect of this business and has been determined by reference to projections of the timing of withdrawal. It is
anticipated that this portion of the provision will be utilised in the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2010. There was no restructuring provision
at 31 March 2006 and no movements thereon in the year then ended.
Fair values of provisions do not materially differ from the recognised book values.
24. Retirement benefit assets/obligations
(a) Defined Benefit Schemes
The Group operates pension plans in a number of countries around the world and provides post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits to certain
former employees.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension
benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. A
defined contribution plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently
administered fund.
Pension arrangements for the Group’s UK employees are operated principally through the Experian Pension Scheme (formerly the ‘GUS Pension
Scheme’) which is a defined benefit scheme and the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan (formerly the ‘GUS Money Purchase Pension Plan’)
which is a defined contribution scheme. In North America, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is
provided accordingly. There are no other material pension arrangements. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
94 | Experian Annual Report 2007
24. Retirement benefit assets/obligations (continued)
(a) Defined Benefit Schemes (continued)
The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently
administered funds. A full actuarial funding valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years. 
The latest full actuarial funding valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2004 by independent, qualified actuaries, Watson Wyatt
Limited, using the projected unit credit method. Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach
retirement due to the ageing active membership of the scheme.
Following the demerger of Home Retail Group, the Argos Pension Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme for Home Retail Group employees,
continued to be operated by that business. On demerger the pension rights of certain Home Retail Group employees who had been members of
the then GUS Pension Scheme were transferred to the Argos Pension Scheme. Certain Home Retail Group employees who had been members of
the then GUS Money Purchase Plan will be transferred to the Home Retail Group Stakeholder Pension Plan in due course.
Following changes introduced by the Finance Act 2004 which took effect from 6 April 2006 (A-Day), the Experian Pension Scheme, being the
principal defined benefit pension scheme, implemented revised terms for members exchanging pension at retirement date for a tax-free lump sum.
The impact of the consequent update in assumptions reduced the charge to the Group income statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 by
US$2m and increased the actual gain recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense by US$6m.
Assets and liabilities of overseas schemes have been transferred through the purchase of annuities for all liabilities of the plans.
(i) The amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet are determined as follows:
UK Overseas Total
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Market value of schemes’ assets 1,069 1,952 – 68 1,069 2,020
Present value of funded schemes’ liabilities (928) (1,852) – (68) (928) (1,920)
Surplus in the funded schemes 141 100 – – 141 100
Present value of unfunded pension arrangements (37) (42) – (6) (37) (48)
Liability for post-retirement healthcare (19) (19) – (2) (19) (21)
Retirement benefit asset/(liability) recognised in the 
Group balance sheet 85 39 – (8) 85 31
During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group put in place arrangements to secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements already in place for
certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable
securities owned by the Group. The amount of assets charged in this way will be adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the
discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Group’s registered pension
schemes. The total value of the assets charged in this way at 31 March 2007 was US$29m (2006: US$28m). Further details of the unfunded
pension arrangements for directors appear in the report on directors’ remuneration on page 57.
(ii) The amounts recognised in the Group profit and loss account reserve were as follows:
UK Overseas Total
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Current service cost 53 65 – 5 53 70
Curtailment gain (6) – – – (6) –
Interest on schemes’ liabilities 78 88 – 3 78 91
Expected return on schemes’ assets (107) (100) – (3) (107) (103)
Total charge to Group income statement 18 53 – 5 18 58
Actuarial (gain)/loss recognised in the Group statement 
of recognised income and expense (65) (44) – 31 (65) (13)
Other charge to profit and loss account reserve in respect
of the Argos Pension Scheme 41 – – – 41 –
Total (credit)/charge to Group profit and loss account reserve (6) 9 – 36 (6) 45
The charge to Group income statement includes US$17m (2006: US$41m) in respect of discontinued operations. The charge to profit and loss account
reserve in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme forms part of the dividend in specie on the demerger of Home Retail Group.
The curtailment gain arises from the restructuring of the UK Account Processing and the UK Marketing Solutions businesses, as well as the cessation of
certain corporate functions in GUS plc. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 95
24. Retirement benefit assets/obligations (continued)
(a) Defined Benefit Schemes (continued)
(iii) The movements during the year in the retirement benefit asset recognised in the Group balance sheet were as follows:
UK Overseas Total
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 39 (190) (8) (21) 31 (211)
Reclassification of obligation (8) – 8 – – –
Other charge to profit and loss account reserve
in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme (41) – – – (41) –
Liabilities disposed with the sale of overseas businesses – – – 45 – 45
Differences on exchange 10 9 – 1 10 10
Total amounts recognised in the Group income statement 
– as disclosed above (18) (53) – (5) (18) (58)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the Group statement of 
recognised income and expense 65 44 – (31) 65 13
Contributions paid by the Group 38 229 – 3 38 232
At 31 March 85 39 – (8) 85 31
(iv) The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Group income statement:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Administrative costs (after exceptional income of US$4m (2006: US$nil)) 17 26
Net financing income (16) (9)
Continuing operations 1 17
Discontinued operations 17 41
Total charge to Group income statement 18 58
(v) Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense are as follows:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Gain/(loss) on liabilities 75 (80)
(Loss)/gain on assets (3) 109
Continuing operations 72 29
Discontinued operations (7) (16)
Total gain included in Group statement of recognised income and expense in year 65 13
Cumulative actuarial gain/(loss) included in Group statement of recognised income and expense comprises:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Continuing operations 127 55
Discontinued operations (81) (74)
Total cumulative actuarial gain/(loss) included in Group statement of recognised income and expense 46 (19) 24. Retirement benefit assets/obligations (continued)
(a) Defined Benefit Schemes (continued)
(vi) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Opening defined benefit obligation 1,989 2,026
Demerger of Home Retail Group (1,100) –
Pension liability disposed with the sale of overseas businesses – (240)
Current service cost 53 70
Interest cost 78 91
Settlement or curtailment (9) (4)
Contributions paid by employees 14 16
Contributions paid from outside the Group 2 –
Actuarial (gain)/loss on liabilities (118) 228
Benefits paid (123) (48)
Exchange differences 198 (150)
Closing defined benefit obligation 984 1,989
The total defined benefit obligation of US$984m (2006: US$1,989m) includes US$928m (2006: US$1,920m) in respect of the Group’s funded
arrangements and US$56m (2006: US$69m) in respect of the Group’s unfunded arrangements.
(vii) Changes in the market value of the plan assets are as follows:
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Opening market value of plan assets 2,020 1,814
Demerger of Home Retail Group (1,141) –
Pension assets disposed with the sale of overseas businesses – (195)
Expected return 107 105
Settlement or curtailment (3) (4)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on assets (53) 241
Contributions paid by the Group 38 232
Contributions paid by employees 14 16
Contributions paid from outside the Group 2 –
Benefits paid (123) (48)
Exchange differences 208 (141)
Closing market value of plan assets 1,069 2,020
The actual return on plan assets was US$54m (2006: US$346m).
Contributions in the year ended 31 March 2006 included a special contribution of US$179m paid into the Argos Pension Scheme in March 2006.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the Experian pension schemes during the next financial year is US$19m by the Group
and US$7m by employees.
Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
96 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 97
24. Retirement benefit assets/obligations (continued)
(a) Defined Benefit Schemes (continued)
(viii) The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Watson Wyatt
Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 31 March 2007. The principal actuarial
assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
UK schemes 2007 2006
% %
Rate of inflation 3.1 2.9
Rate of increase for salaries 4.9 4.7
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.1 2.9
Rate of increase for medical costs 6.5 6.5
Discount rate 5.4 4.9
Overseas schemes 2006
%
Rate of inflation 2.7
Rate of increase for salaries n/a
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions –
Rate of increase for medical costs 11.5
Discount rate 5.1
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, i.e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation. If this assumption
increased/decreased by 0.1%, the UK defined benefit obligation would decrease/increase by approximately US$17m and the annual UK current
service cost would decrease/increase by approximately US$1m. The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of
equivalent currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with current standard tables for males and females as used at the last actuarial valuation.
An allowance is also made for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy, by assuming that the probability of death occurring at each age
will decrease by 0.25% each year. If this assumption decreased by a further 0.25% per annum then the defined benefit obligation would increase
by US$40m and the annual UK current service cost would increase by approximately US$3m.
Overall, the average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be:
– 19.1 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 65
– 22.2 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65
– 19.8 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50
– 23.1 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50
The assumptions in respect of discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation. Changes
to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
The IAS 19 valuation, in respect of post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits provided to certain former Group employees, additionally assumes
a rate of increase for medical costs. If this assumption increased/decreased by 1.0% per annum then the obligation would increase/decrease by
US$2m and the annual UK current service cost would remain unchanged. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
24. Retirement benefit assets/obligations (continued)
(a) Defined Benefit Schemes (continued)
(ix) The assets of the Group’s defined benefit schemes and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows:
UK Overseas UK Overseas
Expected Expected Expected Expected
long-term long-term long-term long-term
rate of rate of rate of rate of
Fair value return Fair value return Fair value return Fair value return
2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006
US$m %p.a. US$m %p.a. US$m %p.a. US$m %p.a.
Market value of schemes’ assets:
Equities 733 8.1 – n/a 1,351 7.9 – n/a
Fixed interest securities 336 5.4 – n/a 578 4.5 – n/a
Other – n/a – n/a 23 3.7 68 5.0
1,069 7.3 – n/a 1,952 6.8 68 5.0
The expected return on plan assets has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the
current investment policy. Expected yields on fixed interest investments and securities are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet
date. Expected returns on equity and other investments reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
(x) History of experience gains and losses:
2007 2006 2005
US$m US$m US$m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (984) (1,989) (2,025)
Fair value of scheme assets 1,069 2,020 1,814
Net pension asset/(obligation) 85 31 (211)
2007 2006 2005
Experience adjustment arising on defined benefit obligation:
Amount – (Gain)/loss (US$m) (119) 228 33
Percentage of the present value of defined benefit obligation 12.5% 11.2% 1.7%
Experience adjustment arising on scheme assets:
Amount – Loss/(gain) (US$m) 53 (241) –
Percentage of scheme assets 5.1% 11.6% –
(b) Defined Contribution Schemes
The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to such schemes and amounted to US$33m (2006: US$27m).
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
98 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 99
25. Other financial assets and liabilities
Current Non-current Current Non-current
2007 2007 2006 2006
Other financial assets US$m US$m US$m US$m
Derivative financial instruments:
Cash flow hedge – foreign exchange contracts –– 3–
Fair value hedge of borrowings – interest rate swaps –20 –38
Fair value hedge of borrowings – cross currency swaps 29 – –47
Non-hedging derivatives – equity swaps –– 43
Non-hedging derivatives – interest rate swaps 316 333
Non-hedging derivatives – foreign exchange contracts 21 – ––
53 36 10 121
Available for sale assets:
Listed –38 –37
Total other financial assets 53 74 10 158
Current Non-current Current Non-current
2007 2007 2006 2006
Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m
Derivative financial instruments:
Fair value hedge of borrowings – interest rate swaps – 40 – 12
Net investment hedge – foreign exchange contracts –– 23 –
Non-hedging derivatives – foreign exchange contracts – – 10 –
Non-hedging derivatives – interest rate swaps –– 42
Total other financial liabilities –40 37 14
The cash flow hedges related to the hedging of foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory by Home Retail Group. The hedged
cash flows were expected to occur up to one year in the future and were transferred to the Group income statement or inventory carrying values
as applicable.
The fair value of foreign currency contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates. The fair values of other
derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at
the year end. 26 Financial instruments
(a) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison of carrying values and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments:
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
2007 2007 2006 2006
US$m US$m US$m US$m
Trade and other receivables
1
660 660 1,611 1,611
Other financial assets 127 127 168 168
Cash and cash equivalents 907 907 385 385
Financial assets 1,694 1,694 2,164 2,164
Loans and Borrowings
e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 688 690
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 722 620 622
£334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 630 595 599
Perpetual Securities –– 386 390
Bank loans –– 1,358 1,358
Overdrafts 273 273 245 245
2,372 2,376 3,892 3,904
Other financial liabilities 40 40 51 51
Trade and other payables
2
766 766 2,134 2,134
Financial liabilities 3,178 3,182 6,077 6,089
1. VAT recoverable of US$1m (2006: US$17m) and prepayments of US$144m (2006: US$291m) are excluded from this analysis.
2. VAT and other tax payable of US$42m (2006: US$125m), social security costs of US$75m (2006: US$75m) and accruals of US$200m
(2006: US$231m) are excluded from this analysis.
Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
100 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 101
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Additional information on financial assets
The maturity profiles of financial assets are as follows:
Less than 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 Over 5
1 year years years years years years Total
At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Trade and other receivables
1
660––––– 660
Other financial assets 53 9 23 4 – 38 127
Cash and cash equivalents 907 – – – – – 907
1,620 9 23 4 – 38 1,694
Less than 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 Over 5
1 year years years years years years Total
At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Trade and other receivables
1
1,546 40 19 5 – 1 1,611
Other financial assets 10 57 14 42 9 36 168
Cash and cash equivalents 385 – – – – – 385
1,941 97 33 47 9 37 2,164
1. VAT recoverable of US$1m (2006: US$17m) and prepayments of US$144m (2006: US$291m) are excluded from this analysis.
Analysed by currency: 2007 2006
US$m US$m
Sterling 955 1,415
US Dollar 331 315
Euro 364 392
Other 44 42
1,694 2,164
Analysed by interest rate profile: 2007 2006
US$m US$m
Floating 775 387
Fixed 221 517
Non-interest bearing 698 1,260
1,694 2,164 26 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Additional information on financial liabilities
(i) The contractual repricing dates of liabilities exposed to interest rate risk are as follows:
Less than 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 Over 5
1 year years years years years years Total
At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and Borrowings
e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 – – – – – 751
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 – – 721 – – – 721
£334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 – – – – – 627 627
Overdrafts 273 – – – – – 273
Effect of interest rate swaps
2
130 408 (272) 390 – (656) –
Other financial liabilities 40 – – – – – 40
Trade and other payables
1
714 46 3 1 1 1 766
1,908 454 452 391 1 (28) 3,178
Less than 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 Over 5
1 year years years years years years Total
At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and Borrowings
e568m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 – 688 – – – – 688
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 – – – 620 – – 620
£350m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 – – – – – 595 595
Perpetual Securities – 386 – – – – 386
Bank loans 1,358 – – – – – 1,358
Overdrafts 245 ––––– 245
Effect of interest rate swaps
2
825 (762) 495 (240) 291 (609) –
Other financial liabilities 37 2 – –– 12 51
Trade and other payables
1
2,038 55 30 – 3 8 2,134
4,503 369 525 380 294 6 6,077
1. VAT and other tax payable of US$42m (2006: US$125m), social security costs of US$75m (2006: US$75m) and accruals of US$200m
(2006: US$231m) are excluded from this analysis.
2. These represent the gross notional values of interest rate swaps.
Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
102 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 103
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Additional information on financial liabilities (continued)
(ii) Analysis of financial liabilities by currency:
Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total
At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and Borrowings
e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 – – 751 – 751
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 – – – 721
£334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 – – – 627
Overdrafts 4 – 269 – 273
Effect of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps
2
(1,065) 1,513 (516) 68 –
Other financial liabilities 40– –– 40
Trade and other payables
1
207 409 120 30 766
534 1,922 624 98 3,178
Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total
At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and Borrowings
e568m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 – – 688 – 688
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 620 – – – 620
£350m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 595 – – – 595
Perpetual Securities 386 –– – 386
Bank loans 696 662 – – 1,358
Overdrafts – – 245 – 245
Effect of cross currency swaps
2
(947) 755 122 70 –
Other financial liabilities 51 – –– 51
Trade and other payables
1
1,552 454 108 20 2,134
2,953 1,871 1,163 90 6,077
1. VAT and other tax payable of US$42m (2006: US$125m), social security costs of US$75m (2006: US$75m) and accruals of US$200m
(2006: US$231m) are excluded from this analysis.
2. These represent the gross notional values of cross currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts if applicable.
(iii) Analysis of financial liabilities by interest rate profile:
Non-interest
Floating Fixed bearing Total
At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and borrowings 1,024 1,348 – 2,372
Effect of interest rate swaps
1
130 (130) – –
Other 40 – 766 806
1,194 1,218 766 3,178
Non-interest
Floating Fixed bearing Total
At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and borrowings 1,603 2,289 – 3,892
Effect of interest rate swaps
1
825 (825) – –
Other 13 122 2,050 2,185
2,441 1,586 2,050 6,077
1. These represent the gross notional value of interest rate swaps. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Additional information on financial liabilities (continued)
(iv) Analysis of financial liabilities by maturity profile:
Less than 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 Over 5
1 year years years years years years Total
At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and Borrowings 1,024 – 721 – – 627 2,372
Other financial liabilities – – – – – 40 40
Trade and other payables
1
714 46 3 1 1 1 766
1,738 46 724 1 1 668 3,178
Less than 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 Over 5
1 year years years years years years Total
At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and Borrowings 295 1,736 646 620 – 595 3,892
Other financial liabilities 37 2––– 12 51
Trade and other payables
1
2,038 55 30 – 3 8 2,134
2,370 1,793 676 620 3 615 6,077
1. VAT and other tax payable of US$42m (2006: US$125m), social security costs of US$75m (2006: US$75m) and accruals of US$200m
(2006: US$231m) are excluded from this analysis.
27. Deferred tax
2007 2006
US$m US$m
The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows:
Net deferred tax assets at 1 April 197 335
Differences on exchange – (22)
Income statement charge (note 9) (including US$5m (2006: US$68m) relating to discontinued operations) (54) (109)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (2) (39)
Demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30(b)) (89) –
Disposal of subsidiaries – (7)
Tax (charged)/credited to equity (18) 9
Transfers 1 25
Other movements – 5
Net deferred tax assets at 31 March 35 197
The net deferred tax asset has been presented in the Group balance sheet as follows:
Deferred tax asset 103 547
Deferred tax liabilities (68) (350)
Net deferred tax assets at 31 March 35 197
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
104 | Experian Annual Report 2007 27. Deferred tax (continued)
The movement in gross deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
(a) Deferred tax assets
Share option Other
Accelerated and award Asset temporary
depreciation Intangibles schemes provisions Tax losses differences Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 2006 6 164 42 90 33 212 547
Differences on exchange – – 4 9 1 12 26
Income statement charge (1) (36) (6) 8 (31) 24 (42)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – – 5 – 5
Demerger of Home Retail Group (note 30(b)) (2) – (17) (79) – (113) (211)
Transfers – – – – – (24) (24)
Tax credited/(charged) to equity – – (3) – – 6 3
Other movements – – – (2) – 2 –
At 31 March 2007 3 128 20 26 8 119 304
(b) Deferred tax liabilities
Share option Other
Property Accelerated and award Asset temporary
valuations depreciation Intangibles schemes provisions Tax losses differences Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 2006 52 64 62 1 – 6 165 350
Differences on exchange 5 4 8 – – 1 8 26
Income statement charge – 2 (6) – – (2) 18 12
Acquisition of subsidiaries –– 7–––– 7
Demerger of Home Retail Group 
(note 30(b)) (52) (36) (1) – – – (33) (122)
Transfers – – – – – – (25) (25)
Tax charged to equity –––––– 21 21
At 31 March 2007 5 34 70 1 – 5 154 269
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax
benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$19m (2006: US$9m including US$3m relating to discontinued operations) in respect of losses
that can be carried forward against future taxable income. In addition the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$22m (2006: US$78m
including US$55m relating to discontinued operations) in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains. These
losses are available indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,187m (2006: US$2,034m including US$10m relating to discontinued operations) have not been recognised for the
withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries. As the earnings are continually reinvested
by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets recoverable within the next twelve months of US$120m (2006: US$110m) and deferred
tax liabilities payable within the next twelve months of US$10m (2006: US$7m).
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 105 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
28. Reconciliation of movements in equity
On 10 October 2006, the separation of Experian and Home Retail Group was completed by way of demerger. As part of the demerger, Experian
Group Limited became the ultimate holding company of GUS plc and related subsidiaries and shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the London
Stock Exchange on 6 October 2006. Trading of shares in Experian on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 11 October 2006.
As indicated in note 2, this transaction has been accounted for in these financial statements using the principles of merger accounting. The
distribution to GUS plc shareholders of shares in Home Retail Group plc has been accounted for as a dividend in specie in these financial
statements. In accordance with the requirements of merger accounting, the nominal values of the issued share capital at 1 April 2005 and
subsequent movements to the date of demerger have been amended to reflect the capital structure of Experian Group Limited. These movements
include the recognition of a share premium balance in Experian Group Limited on a reorganisation prior to the demerger and the subsequent
reduction of share capital and the transfer of the associated share premium account to retained earnings.
On 11 October 2006, the Group raised US$1,441m, net of US$43m expenses, by way of a share offer. The associated share premium account is not
available for distribution.
Full details relating to the authorised and issued share capital of Experian Group Limited are contained in note J to the parent company financial
statements. Share capital has been translated at the historic exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Since the balance sheet date, 29,605
Ordinary shares in the Company have been issued in connection with the exercise of share options.
The dividend in specie of US$5,627m in the year ended 31 March 2007 relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group represents the net assets
of Home Retail Group as at the date of the demerger and an analysis of the net assets is given in note 30(b). The dividend in specie in the year
ended 31 March 2006 related to the demerger of Burberry and represented the GUS plc Group’s share of its net assets.
In connection with the demerger of Burberry and at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 13 December 2005, the shareholders of GUS plc approved
a consolidation of GUS shares, replacing 1,023m Ordinary shares of 25p each with 880m Ordinary shares of 29 3/43p each. The share consolidation
was designed to keep the GUS share price at approximately the same level, subject to normal market movements, before and after the demerger of
the Group’s remaining interest in Burberry Group plc. For every 1,000 Ordinary shares of 25p each held immediately prior to the demerger,
shareholders received 305 Ordinary shares of 0.05p each in Burberry Group plc and 860 Ordinary shares of 29 3/43p each in GUS plc. The
associated reduction in the number of shares in GUS plc has been shown as a deduction from the number at 1 April 2005 in the following tables.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Attributable Equity
Number Share Share Retained Other to equity minority Total
of shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity
Year ended 31 March 2007 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Balance at 1 April 2006 879.2 88 16,256 5,683 (16,575) 5,452 2 5,454
Profit for the financial year – –– 462– 462 1 463
Net income recognised directly 
in equity for the financial year – – – 132 469 601 – 601
Share issues pre demerger of
Home Retail Group 7.1 175 – – 76 – 76
Cancellation of treasury shares 
pre demerger of Home Retail Group (8.9) (1) (178) – 179 – – –
Capital reduction – – (16,153) 16,153 – – – –
Share issues by way of Global Offer 142.9 14 1,427 – – 1,441 – 1,441
Employee share option schemes:
– value of employee services – –– 109– 109 – 109
– proceeds from shares issued 2.0 –8 – – 8 – 8
Exercise of share options – – – (70) 129 59 – 59
Purchase of ESOP shares – – – – (75) (75) – (75)
Relinquishment of Home Retail Group
shares to employees and
Home Retail Group – – – (100) 100 – – –
Equity dividends paid during 
the year (note 11) – – – (401) – (401) – (401)
Dividend in specie relating to 
the demerger of Home Retail Group
(note 11) – – – (5,627) – (5,627) – (5,627)
Dividends paid to minority
shareholders – – –– – – (1) (1)
Balance at 31 March 2007 1,022.3 102 1,435 16,341 (15,773) 2,105 2 2,107
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
106 | Experian Annual Report 2007 28. Reconciliation of movements in equity (continued)
Attributable Equity
Number Share Share Retained Other to equity minority Total
of shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity
Year ended 31 March 2006 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Balances in GUS plc Group at 
1 April 2005 874.4 478 130 5,610 (445) 5,773 486 6,259
Merger accounting adjustments 
to reflect new company structure:
Elimination of GUS plc capital – (478) (130) – – (608) – (608)
GUS plc shares shown at 
Experian Group Limited 
nominal value – 87 16,203 – (15,682) 608 – 608
Balances in Experian Group 
Limited at 1 April 2005 874.4 87 16,203 5,610 (16,127) 5,773 486 6,259
Profit for the financial year – – – 1,018 – 1,018 46 1,064
Net income/(expense) recognised directly 
in equity for the financial year – – – 10 (419) (409) (19) (428)
Employee share option schemes:
– value of employee services – –– 63– 63 – 63
– proceeds from shares issued 4.8 153 – – 54 – 54
Decrease in minority interests 
arising due to corporate 
transactions – –– –– – (495) (495)
Purchase of ESOP shares – – – – (29) (29) – (29)
Equity dividends paid during the 
year (note 11) – – – (508) – (508) – (508)
Dividend in specie relating to the 
demerger of Burberry Group plc (note 11) – – – (513) – (513) – (513)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders – – – – – – (13) (13)
Other movements – –– 3– 3 (3) –
Balance at 31 March 2006 879.2 88 16,256 5,683 (16,575) 5,452 2 5,454
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 107 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
28. Reconciliation of movements in equity (continued)
IThe analysis of other reserves is as follows:
Treasury Total
and ESOP Merger Hedging Translation other
shares reserve reserve reserve reserves
Year ended 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 April 2006 (496) (15,682) 14 (411) (16,575)
Cancellation of treasury shares pre demerger of Home Retail Group 179 – – – 179
Exercise of share options 129 – – – 129
Purchase of ESOP shares (75) – – – (75)
Relinquishment of Home Retail Group shares to employees
and Home Retail Group 100 – – – 100
Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year – – 4 465 469
Balance at 31 March 2007 (163) (15,682) 18 54 (15,773)
Year ended 31 March 2006
Balances in GUS plc Group at 1 April 2005 (467) – 18 4 (445)
Creation of merger reserve – (15,682) – – (15,682)
Balances in Experian Group Limited at 1 April 2005 (467) (15,682) 18 4 (16,127)
Purchase of ESOP shares (29) – – – (29)
Net expense recognised directly in equity for the financial year – – (4) (415) (419)
Balance at 31 March 2006 (496) (15,682) 14 (411) (16,575)
At 31 March 2007, the balance on the Treasury and ESOP shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased by the GUS ESOP
Trust, the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan Trust to satisfy certain of the Group’s
obligations under its share incentive plans. During the year these trusts purchased 7,775,076 shares at a cost of US$75m.
The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc,
and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the global offer and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the
Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are
not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
108 | Experian Annual Report 2007 29. Notes to the Group cash flow statement
2007 2006
US$m US$m
(a) Cash generated from operations
Profit after tax 326 458
Adjustments for:
Tax expense 68 92
Share of post tax profits of associates (67) (66)
Net financing costs 146 102
Operating profit 473 586
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 10 –
Depreciation and amortisation 303 270
Goodwill adjustment 14 –
Charge in respect of share incentive schemes 91 30
Exceptional items included in working capital 46 7
Increase in inventories (1) –
Increase in receivables (72) (36)
Increase in payables 82 12
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the Group income statement (4) 5
Cash generated from operations 942 874
(b) Interest paid
Interest paid on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 133 179
Total interest paid 133 179
(c) Acquisition of subsidiaries
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (note 30(a)) (82) (1,384)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings (note 30(a)) 8 –
Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions made in previous periods (44) (36)
Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries (118) (1,420)
(d) Disposal of subsidiaries
Proceeds of disposal of shares in Burberry – 9
Proceeds of disposal of Wehkamp – 384
Proceeds of disposal of shares in Lewis – 250
Receipt of deferred consideration in respect of home shopping and Reality 258 –
Cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 258 643
(e) Financing
Debt due within one year:
Repayment of borrowings (42) (63)
Debt due after more than one year:
Repayment of borrowings (1,381) –
New borrowings – 647
Net cash flow from debt financing (1,423) 584
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 109 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
110 | Experian Annual Report 2007
29. Notes to the Group cash flow statement (continued)
2007 2006
US$m US$m
(f) Analysis of cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 798 293
Short-term investments 109 92
Cash and cash equivalents per Group balance sheet 907 385
Overdrafts (273) (246)
Cash and cash equivalents per Group cash flow statement 634 139
Analysed as:
Cash and cash equivalents – continuing operations 634 (89)
Cash and cash equivalents – discontinued operations – 228
Cash and cash equivalents per Group cash flow statement 634 139
(g) Major non-cash transactions
The Group did not enter into any new finance lease arrangements during the year (2006: US$nil).
30. Acquisitions and demerger of Home Retail Group
(a) Acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2007
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group made several acquisitions, none of which are considered individually material to the Group,
including Eiger Systems a leading provider of bank validation/payment software in the UK and Ireland.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of US$20m and profit after tax of US$3m to the Group for the periods from their
respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2007. If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2006, further revenues of US$12m would have
been reported. Due to the acquired entities using different accounting policies prior to acquisition, previously reporting to different period ends and,
in certain cases, preparing financial information on a cash basis prior to acquisition, it has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group
profit had they been owned from 1 April 2006.
Details of the net assets acquired and the provisional goodwill are as follows:
Book value Fair value
US$m US$m
Intangible assets –20
Property, plant and equipment 44
Deferred tax assets –5
Trade and other receivables 55
Cash, net of overdrafts 88
Trade and other payables (12) (15)
Deferred tax liabilities – (7)
Net assets acquired 520
Goodwill 71
91
Satisfied by:
Cash 80
Acquisition expenses 2
Deferred consideration 9
91
The fair values set out above contain certain provisional amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition. Fair
value adjustments in respect of acquisitions made during the year resulted in an increase to book value of US$15m and arose principally in respect 
of acquisition intangibles. Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
Deferred consideration is primarily payable in cash up to three years after the date of acquisition and in some cases is contingent on the businesses
acquired achieving revenue and profit targets. The deferred consideration settled during the year on acquisitions made in previous years was
US$44m.  30. Acquisitions and demerger of Home Retail Group (continued)
(b) Demerger of Home Retail Group
As indicated in note 2, the distribution of shares in Home Retail Group plc to shareholders in GUS plc at the date of demerger has been accounted
for as a dividend in specie. This represents the Group’s share of the net assets of Home Retail Group at the date of demerger which comprised:
US$m
Intangible assets 3,716
Property, plant and equipment 1,299
Deferred tax assets 211
Retirement benefit assets 41
Inventories 1,765
Trade and other receivables 1,036
Cash and cash equivalents 518
Trade and other payables (2,156)
Current tax payable (72)
Loans and borrowings (435)
Deferred tax liabilities (122)
Provisions (174)
Group’s share of net assets of Home Retail Group on demerger 5,627
31. Share-based payment arrangements
Prior to the demerger, Experian employees participated in share-based incentive plans in respect of the Ordinary shares in GUS plc. On demerger,
certain GUS awards vested early and Experian incurred an exceptional charge of US$15m on the acceleration of these awards.
On demerger, the majority of Experian participants’ outstanding GUS share and option awards rolled-over into Experian equivalent awards. A limited
number of share and share option awards remained as GUS awards and participants had entitlement to one Home Retail Group share and one
Experian share in lieu of each GUS share allocated. Experian rolled-over awards are share-based incentive plans in respect of the Ordinary shares in
Experian Group Limited. The quantity and exercise price of grants were modified to adjust for the difference between the GUS and Experian share
prices. The roll-over resulted in an incremental change in fair value of US$8m, which was incurred as an exceptional item. The incremental fair value
was primarily as a result of an assumption in respect of the higher volatility of the Experian share price. 
Early vesting and modification changes have been recorded as an exceptional item (note 7).
Option and share prices are disclosed in Sterling reflecting the currency in which the Ordinary shares of GUS plc and Experian Group Limited are
quoted.
(a) Options in respect of Ordinary shares
(i) Summary of arrangements
Experian demerger plan – Experian Share Option Plan
The Experian Share Option Plan includes awards made at and after demerger together with awards rolled-over from former GUS plans and
arrangements were as follows:
Nature Grant of options
Vesting conditions:
– Service period 3 and 4 years
– Performance/Other n/a
Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria (at grant date) n/a
Maximum term 10 years
Method of settlement Share distribution
Expected departures (at grant date) 5%
Option exercise price calculation
1
Market price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant
1. Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of an Experian Group Limited share from the London Stock Exchange
daily official list.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 111 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
Experian Roll-over plans (formerly GUS plans)
The arrangements in respect of former GUS plans which were in place in the year ended 31 March 2006 and in the period from 1 April 2006 to the
date of demerger were as follows:
The 1998 Approved and
Non-Approved Executive The North America Stock Savings related share
Arrangements Share Option Schemes Option Plan option schemes
Nature Grant of options Grant of options ‘Save as you earn’ scheme
Vesting conditions:
– Service period 3 years 1, 2 and 3 years 3 or 5 years
– Performance/Other EPS growth performance n/a Saving obligation over the 
condition
1
vesting period
Expected outcome of meeting performance 
criteria (at grant date) Condition is satisfied n/a n/a
Maximum term 10 years 6 years 3.5 or 5.5 years
Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution
Expected departures (at grant date) 5% 1 year – 0% 3 years
2
– 30%
2 years – 15% 5 years
2
– 50%
3 years – 20%
Option exercise price calculation
3
Market price over the  Market price over the 20% discount to market price 
3 dealing days preceding 3 dealing days preceding over the 3 dealing days 
the grant the grant preceding the grant
1. The performance condition for The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes required average Benchmark EPS
growth to exceed the average growth in the general index of retail prices by at least 4% p.a. over a 3 year period. The period of assessment
commenced at the beginning of the financial year of grant. This is not a market based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
2. The stated values for expected departures include participants who did not meet the savings requirement of the scheme.
3. Three day averages were calculated by taking middle market quotations of a GUS plc share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
(ii) Weighted average share price
2007 2006
£ £
Weighted average share price of Experian Group Limited
1
5.90 n/a
GUS plc share price at demerger 9.90 n/a
Weighted average share price of GUS plc
2
9.82 9.32
1. Experian’s weighted average share price for 2007 is for the period from the listing date, 11 October 2006, to 31 March 2007.
2. Weighted average share price for 2007 is in respect of the period up to demerger.
Options in respect of the Ordinary shares of Experian Group Limited and GUS plc were exercised on a regular basis throughout the periods that the
respective shares were in issue.
(iii) Information relating to option valuation techniques
For the Experian demerger plans and the former GUS plans the Black-Scholes model is used to determine an appropriate value of the option grants.
Inputs into the model are calculated as follows:
Expected volatility: Experian demerger plans – As shares in Experian Group Limited were newly listed during the year, there is insufficient share
price history in order to calculate historical volatility. Accordingly to arrive at a reasonable volatility assumption an analysis of the share price volatility
of comparable companies was performed.
Expected volatility: former GUS plans – Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of
the expected life. Volatility in the first year was assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date. Volatility for year 4 and beyond was
assumed to remain at the long run (10 year observed) historic volatility. Linear interpolation was assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected dividend yield – Yields are based on the current consensus analyst forecast figures at the time of grant. The inputs utilised are an
average of the forecast over the next three financial years.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
112 | Experian Annual Report 2007 31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
Risk-free rate – Rates are obtained from the UK Government Debt Management Office website which details historical prices and yields for gilt
strips.
Expected option life to exercise: Experian Share Option Plans – The Experian Share Option Plans vest 50% after 3 years and 50% after 4
years. The expected life is 4 years for the 50% that vest after 3 years and 4.85 years for the 50% that vest after 4 years.
Expected option life to exercise: former GUS plans – The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes had expected
lives of 4 years, the North American Stock Option Plan had an expected life of 3.75 years and the Savings related share option schemes had
expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Share price on grant date: Experian Share Option Plans – The majority of the grants were made on 11 October 2006. As this was Experian’s
first trading day, the weighted average price of trades was used. For subsequent grants, the closing price on the day of grant was used.
Share price on grant date: former GUS plans – The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Option exercise price – Exercise price as stated in the term of each award.
The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models, for the Experian Share Option Plans, are as follows:
Weighted
average
2007
Fair value (£) 1.26
Share price on grant date (£) 5.63
Exercise price (£) 5.61
Expected volatility 28.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.3%
Risk-free rate 4.9%
Expected option life to exercise 4.43 years
The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models, for the former GUS plans, are as follows:
The 1998 Approved and
Non-Approved Executive The North America Stock Savings related share 
Arrangements Share Option Schemes Option Plan option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average average average
2007
1
2006 2007
1
2006 2007
1
2006
Fair value (£) 2.06 1.60 2.00 1.52 n/a 2.46
Share price on grant date (£) 9.35 8.53 9.35 8.48 n/a 8.96
Exercise price (£) 9.26 8.61 9.26 8.59 n/a 6.87
Expected volatility 29.4% 27.8% 29.1% 27.4% n/a 25.5%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 4.0% 3.5% 4.0% n/a 3.8%
Risk-free rate 4.7% 4.3% 4.7% 4.3% n/a 4.1%
Expected option life to exercise 4 years 4 years 3.75 years 3.75 years n/a 3.56 years
1. Weighted average for the period up to demerger.
Options over GUS plc shares granted in the period from 1 April 2006 to demerger had a weighted average fair value of £2.03 (2006: £1.82).
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 113 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
114 | Experian Annual Report 2007
31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
(iv) Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options
Weighted 
Number of average 
options exercise price
m£
2006 2006
Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 27.8 6.34
New grants 8.3 8.12
Forfeitures
1
(1.5) 6.53
Exercised options (5.9) 6.09
Expired options (0.5) 6.60
Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the end of the year 28.2 6.90
Options in respect of GUS plc shares exercisable at the end of the year 5.9 6.41
1. For the Savings related share option schemes, this includes non-leavers who have failed the savings requirement.
Weighted 
Number of average 
options exercise price
m £
2007 2007
Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 28.2 6.90
New grants 7.7 9.26
Forfeitures (0.8) 7.62
Exercised options (7.1) 5.71
Options in respect of shares in GUS plc at demerger 28.0 7.83
Less: options rolled-over into Home Retail Group share plans (10.3) 7.50
Less: GUS awards forfeited post demerger (0.3) 7.21
Less: GUS awards exercised post demerger (0.6) 7.29
GUS options rolled-over into Experian equivalent awards 16.8 8.06
Conversion to Experian Group Limited awards at an average roll-over ratio of 1.76 12.8
Experian equivalent roll-over awards 29.6 4.56
Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited granted on or after demerger 4.2 5.61
Forfeitures (0.8) 5.09
Exercises (1.6) 3.72
Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at the end of the year 31.4 4.73
Options in respect of Experian Group Limited shares exercisable at the end of the year 8.0 3.89
(v) Options outstanding at the end of the year
Options in respect of Experian Group Limited shares outstanding at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual
lives:
At 31 March 2007
Range of Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives
exercise of average
prices options exercise
price
1
Expected Contractual
£ m £ years years
2-3 0.2 2.74 1.1 2.3
3-4 7.1 3.71 0.2 3.6
4-5 10.4 4.67 1.7 6.0
5-6 13.8 5.33 3.3 7.7
1. To the extent that options have been rolled-over into Experian demerger plans, the 2007 inputs for share price at grant date and exercise price
have been rebased to be comparable with the Experian Group Limited share price at demerger and reflect the consequent changes to option
terms. 31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
Options in respect of GUS plc shares outstanding at 31 March 2006 had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives:
At 31 March 2006
Weighted Weighted average remaining lives
Range of Number average
exercise of exercise
prices options price Expected Contractual
£ m £ years years
0-6 5.2 4.56 0.7 1.4
6-7 12.4 6.61 1.2 4.8
7-8 0.1 7.57 1.6 6.6
8-9 10.5 8.39 3.9 6.0
(b) Share awards in respect of Ordinary shares
(i) Summary of arrangements
Experian demerger share plans:
The following arrangements include awards made at and after demerger together with awards rolled over from former GUS plans:
Experian Free Shares Plan 
Experian and the Experian 
Experian Reinvestment Performance Share UK Approved All-
Arrangements Plan Plan Employee Plan
Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares
Vesting conditions:
– Service period 3 to 5 years 5 years 3 years
– Performance n/a
Expected outcome of meeting
performance criteria (at grant date) n/a 52.3% n/a
Maximum term 5 years 5 years 3.5 years
Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution
Expected departures (at grant date) 5% 5% 15%
1. The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Reinvestment Plan and Experian Performance Share Plan requires profit before
tax growth to at least exceed 10 – 14% over a 3 year period. The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of
grant. This is not a ‘Market-based’ performance condition as defined by IFRS 2. The condition is applied to half of the awarded shares.
2. The Experian Performance Share Plan ‘Total Shareholder Return’ is considered a ‘Market-based’ performance condition under IFRS 2. It has
been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three year
period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian Group Limited. The fair value of awards was calculated as 52.3% of the
weighted average share price for Experian Group Limited’s first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange. The condition is applied to half
of the awarded shares.
50% – Benchmark profit
performance of Group
assessed against specified
targets
1
50%
–
Distribution percentage
determined by ranking ‘Total
Shareholder Return’ relative
to a comparator group
2
50% – Benchmark profit
performance of Group
assessed against specified
targets 
1
50% – n/a
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 115 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
Former GUS share plans:
The arrangements in respect of former GUS plans which were in place in the year ended 31 March 2006 and in the period from 1 April 2006 to the
date of demerger were as follows:
Arrangements Co-Investment Plan – Matching Shares Performance Share Plan
Nature of arrangement Grant of shares
1
Grant of shares
Vesting conditions:
– Service period
– Performance
Expected outcome of meeting
performance criteria (at grant date) Participants meet target performance 50.6% for June 2006 grant
60.0% for June 2005 grant
Maximum term 4 years 3 years
Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution
Expected departures (at grant date) 7% 5%
1. The Matching Shares are a nil consideration option and have been classified as an award of shares because the nature of the award is the same.
2. The Performance Share Plan performance condition is considered a ‘Market-based’ performance condition under IFRS 2. It was valued using a
Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three year period preceding valuation. On conversion to
IFRS, the fair value of awards was calculated as 60% of the share price at date of grant. This valuation has applied to all grants up to 31 March
2006. It was deemed necessary to re-run the Monte Carlo simulation for the year ended 31 March 2007 as Group activity made the calculation
on conversion to IFRS inappropriate. The fair value of awards granted in June 2006 was calculated as 50.6% of the share price at date of grant.
The grant date for the Experian Co-Investment plan and the former GUS Co-Investment plan is the start of the financial year in which performance
is assessed. This is before the quantity of the shares award is determined. The underlying value of the award is known at the grant date, subject to
the outcome of the performance condition. The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of issue to participants.
(ii) Information relating to share grant valuation techniques
The majority of the grants were made on Experian Group Limited shares’ first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange and trading was
particularly volatile on this day. The weighted average share price for that day’s trading is being used to determine the value of Experian demerger
share awards. For the former GUS plans the value of awards is determined as the observed market closing rate on the date awarded grants are
issued to participants. For the Experian Co-Investment plan and the former GUS Co-Investment plan, this occurs after the first year of performance
is assessed. The Experian demerger and former GUS Performance Share plans’ market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value
measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Under the share awards, participants have an entitlement to dividend distributions from the issue date until point of vesting. The observed market
rate on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions. No modifications are made for dividend distributions or other
factors.
(iii) Reconciliation of share awards outstanding
Number of
options
m
2006
Share awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 4.9
New grants 2.0
Forfeitures (1.3)
Vesting (0.6)
Share awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the end of the year 5.0
3 years
Distribution percentage determined by ranking ‘Total
Shareholder Return’ relative to a comparator group
4 years
Benchmark profit performance of Group/Division
assessed against specified targets
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
116 | Experian Annual Report 2007 31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
Number of
options
m
2007
Share awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 5.0
New grants 2.8
Vesting (4.2)
Awards in respect of shares in GUS plc at demerger 3.6
Less awards rolled-over into Home Retail Group share plans (0.7)
GUS share awards to Experian participants at demerger 2.9
Conversion to Experian Group awards at an average roll-over ratio of 1.78 2.3
Experian equivalent roll-over awards 5.2
Share awards in respect of Experian Group Limited on or after demerger 19.8
Forfeitures (0.4)
Share awards in Experian Group Limited outstanding at the end of the year 24.6
For Experian demerger plans there were 19,022,982 shares granted in 2007, with a weighted average award fair value of £5.20. For former GUS
plans there were 2,814,465 shares granted in 2007 (2006: 2,635,145), with a weighted average award fair value of £6.74 (2006: £7.69).
(c) Modification of GUS awards to Experian participants
(i) Details of modification
Prior to demerger, Experian participants held share incentive grants with entitlement to GUS share distributions. On demerger, the majority of
outstanding awards were rolled-over into plans with entitlement to Experian Group Limited share distributions. The quantity and exercise price of
awards were modified to maintain an equivalent compensation as the original GUS grants. The incremental fair value of the modification was US$8m.
(ii) Information relating to modified options
In total, 16.9m GUS options were rolled-over into 30.0m Experian Group Limited options. A Black-Scholes model was used to determine the fair
value of GUS and Experian Group Limited awards for modified grants. The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-
Scholes model are as follows:
Weighted average
GUS Experian
awards awards
Fair value (£) 2.71 1.64
Share price on modification date (£) 9.90 5.62
Exercise price (£) 8.08 4.57
Expected volatility 25.6% 27.6%
Expected dividend yield 3.7% 3.7%
Risk-free rate 4.9% 4.9%
Expected option life to exercise 3.48 years 3.48 years
(iii) Information relating to modified share awards
Weighted average
GUS Experian
awards awards
Quantity modified (millions) 4.9 8.7
Weighted average fair value (£) 8.14 4.67
(d) Other share awards
During the year Experian Group Limited issued put options to a small number of employees who own an equity interest in a subsidiary. These
options vest on 31 March 2008 assuming the employees remain with the Group and they will be exercisable from that date onwards. These options
are accounted for under IFRS 2 as performance conditions are linked to employment with the subsidiary. The options will be exercisable at a value
based on 20% of the prevailing market value of the subsidiary for which these employees work and this value is capped at US$50m. The option will
be settled in Experian Group Limited shares. The expected number of shares is 122,000. The option was purchased for US$0.7m by the employees
at fair value as calculated by third party valuation specialists. This valuation is based on the forecast revenue model of the subsidiary. No cost will
arise over the vesting period as the purchase price of the option was its market value.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 117 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
31. Share-based payment arrangements (continued)
(e) Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of Ordinary shares
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Share option awards 30 23
Share grant awards 72 28
Total expense recognised (all equity settled) 102 51
Associated National Insurance costs 4 2
Total expense recognised 106 53
The expense is reported as follows:
Employee cost included in Benchmark PBT 34 34
Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans (excluded from Benchmark PBT) 23 –
Discontinued operations 15 17
Exceptional item – charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at 
demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 23 –
Exceptional item – other costs incurred relating to the demerger of
Experian and Home Retail Group 7 –
Total expense recognised (all equity settled) 102 51
Associated National Insurance costs:
Included in Benchmark PBT 3 2
Excluded from Benchmark PBT 1 –
Total expense recognised 106 53
32. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring in:
Less than one year 65 590
Between one and five years 150 2,153
More than five years 64 4,431
279 7,174
The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and
renewal rights.
33. Capital commitments
2007 2006
US$m US$m
Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed:
Property, plant and equipment 11 94
Intangible assets – 2
11 96
34. Contingencies
In the United States, there are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving Experian which are being vigorously defended. The
directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial
position. However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group. In the case of unfavourable outcomes
the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
118 | Experian Annual Report 2007 35. Related parties
The ultimate parent company of the Group is Experian Group Limited which is incorporated in Jersey. The principal subsidiary and associate
undertakings at 31 March 2007 are shown in note O to the financial statements of the ultimate parent company.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties of Experian:
Associates
During the year the Group made net sales and recharges, under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties, to
First American Real Estate Solutions LLC (‘FARES’) and its associate First Advantage Corporation, of US$29m (2006: US$21m). Amounts receivable
from FARES are shown within note 18. These amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or
received in the year. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Subsidiaries
Transactions between the ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Home Retail Group
Under the terms of the demerger agreement entered into in August 2006, the Group has contracted to provide certain services to Home Retail
Group on a transitional basis for a period of not more than two years after the date of the demerger. The fees payable for these services are
determined on an arm’s length basis. Since the demerger, the Group has charged US$0.3m to Home Retail Group in respect of these services.
Since the date of demerger Experian has made sales of US$10m to Home Retail Group companies on normal commercial terms.
Key management personnel
Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 6(c). During the year there were no material transactions or balances between the
Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
Other related parties
There were no other material related party transactions. Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis. Goods are bought
on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 119 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
120 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Experian Group Limited
We have audited the Group financial statements of Experian Group Limited for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group income
statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense and the related
notes. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Experian Group Limited for the period ended 31 March 2007. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in
accordance with Article 110 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. The information given in the
directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referred from the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code (2003)
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the board’s statements on internal controls cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements. The
other information comprises only the Group financial highlights, the directors’ report, the chairman’s statement, the business review, the board of
directors, the unaudited part of the report on directors’ remuneration, the corporate governance statement and the other items as referred to on
the contents listing. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we have also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
Group financial statements. 
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
• the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
22 May 2007
Report of the auditors: Group financial statements
  Parent company profit and loss account
for the period ended 31 March 2007
2007
Notes £m
Administrative expenses (13.0)
Operating loss C (13.0)
Net interest income D 8.7
Net foreign exchange gain 0.1
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation (4.2)
Tax on loss on ordinary activities E –
Loss for the financial period K (4.2)
The Company has no recognised gains and losses other than those included in the profit and loss account and therefore no separate statement of
total recognised gains and losses has been presented.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 121 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2007
Notes £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets F 0.2 
Investments in group undertakings G 5,970.5 
5,970.7 
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year H 1.7 
Cash at bank and in hand 7.4 
9.1 
Current liabilities
Creditors – amounts due within one year I (90.1)
Net current liabilities (81.0) 
Net assets 5,889.7 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital J 54.7 
Share premium account J 773.8 
Profit and loss account K 5,061.2 
Total equity shareholders’ funds 5,889.7
The financial statements on pages 121 to 132 were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
John Peace  
Director
Parent company balance sheet
at 31 March 2007
122 | Experian Annual Report 2007 A. Corporate information
Experian Group Limited (the ‘Company’) was incorporated and registered in Jersey on 30 June 2006 under the Jersey Companies Law as a public
company limited by shares with the name New Gemini (Jersey Co) No. 1 Limited. The Company changed its name to Experian Group Limited on
6 July 2006. The principal legislation under which the Company operates is Jersey Companies Law and regulations made thereunder.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate holding company of the Experian Group, whose principal activity is business services.
The shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities (the ‘London Stock Exchange’) and trading in
these shares commenced on 11 October 2006. 
B. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented in compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are listed on the
London Stock Exchange. They were approved by the Board on 22 May 2007. The Company’s financial statements cover the period from
incorporation on 30 June 2006 to 31 March 2007. They are presented in Pounds Sterling, as that is the functional currency of the Company. In
determining its functional currency, the directors have determined the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, modified for the revaluation of
certain financial instruments, and in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (‘UK GAAP’). 
These separately presented Company financial statements comprise the profit and loss account, balance sheet and related notes. The Company has
taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 (Revised 1996) ‘Cash Flow Statements’. The
Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures‘ from disclosing transactions with other members of the Experian
Group. 
The Experian Group Limited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 contain financial instrument disclosures required
by IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and these would also comply with the disclosures required by FRS 25 ‘Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation ‘. Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 25 not to present separate
financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
Significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies of the Company are noted below.
Tangible fixed assets
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset and the remaining life of the lease. 
Leases
Gross rental income receivable and payable in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the periods of the leases.
Investments in group undertakings
Investments in group undertakings are stated at cost less provision considered necessary for any impairment.
Impairment of fixed assets
Where there is an indication of impairment, fixed assets are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 ‘Impairment of Fixed Assets
and Goodwill’. Any impairment is recognised in the year in which it occurs.
Debtors and creditors
Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and carried at the lower of cost and recoverable amount. Where the time value of money is material,
debtors are carried at amortised cost.
Creditors are initially recognised at fair value and carried at amortised cost if the time value of money is material.
Cash
Cash includes cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments. 
Accounting for derivative financial instruments 
The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The interest differential
reflected in forward foreign exchange contracts is taken to interest expense. 
Forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised at fair value, based on forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. Gains
or losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are taken directly to net foreign exchange gains or losses in the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and is determined using the
tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing differences reverse. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are
expected to be recoverable. 
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 123
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the period ended 31 March 2007 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
B. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies (continued)
ESOP Trust shares
The Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust (‘the Trust’) is a separately administered trust. Liabilities of the Trust are guaranteed by the
Company and the assets of the Trust mainly comprise shares in the Company. The assets, liabilities and expenses of the Trust are included in the
Company’s financial statements as if they were the Company’s own. Such shares held by the Trust are shown as a deduction from equity
shareholders’ funds at cost.
Share-based payments
The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans. These include awards in respect of shares in the Company made at or
after demerger together with awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled-over into awards in respect of shares in the
Company at demerger. The issuance by the Company of share incentives to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions
and therefore an increase in the Company’s investment in group undertakings with a corresponding increase in equity shareholders’ funds.
The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised after taking into account the Company’s best estimate of the number of awards expected
to vest. The Company revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date and non market performance conditions are included in the vesting
estimates. Amounts are recognised over the vesting period. Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes, Monte
Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award. Market based performance conditions are included in the fair value
measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
C. Operating loss
The operating loss is stated after charging:
2007
(i) Staff costs: £m
Directors’ fees 0.4
Wages and salaries 0.2
Total 0.6
(ii) Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates:
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of the parent company financial statements were £30,000
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of the group financial statements 0.3
Fees payable to Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Services in respect of the demerger (included in exceptional items) 0.6 
Total 0.9 
(iii) Exceptional items:
Costs incurred relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group and Experian 4.6
The Company employed an average of one employee during the period. Executive directors of the Company are employed by other companies
within the Group.
Details of the remuneration of directors are given in the auditable part of the report on directors’ remuneration on pages 52 to 57.
During the period the Company paid an interim equity dividend of £20.4m to shareholders and there was a dividend in specie to shareholders of
£3,497.6m relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group. The directors propose a further dividend of 11.5 cents per share for the period ended
31 March 2007. This dividend is not included as a liability in the current year financial statements as it has not been declared. For further details see
note 11 in the Experian Group financial statements. 
124 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the period ended 31 March 2007 D. Net interest income 2007
£m
Interest income:
External interest income 0.3 
Interest on amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 8.0 
Unwind of discount on amount owed by subsidiary undertaking 0.7
9.0
Interest expense:
Interest on amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (0.3)
Net interest 8.7
E. Tax on loss on ordinary activities
(i) Tax charge for the period
There was no tax charge for the period. The applicable rate of Corporation tax in Ireland is 25% for investment income (12.5% for trading income).
The differences are explained below:
2007
£m
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation (4.2)
Loss on ordinary activities before tax multiplied by the applicable rate of Corporation tax in Ireland of 25% (12.5% for trading income) (1.1)
Effects of:
Income not taxable (0.1)
Expenses not deductible 1.2 
Current tax charge for the period –
(ii) Factors that may affect future tax charges
In the forseeable future, the Company’s tax charge will continue to be influenced by the nature of its income and expenditure in subsequent
accounting periods, and could be affected by changes in tax law.
(iii) Tax effect of exceptional items
The exceptional items included within the Company’s expenses are not deductible for tax purposes.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 125 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
2007
F. Tangible fixed assets £m
Short leasehold properties
Cost
Additions 0.2
At 31 March 2007 0.2
Depreciation
At 31 March 2007 –
Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 0.2
2007
G. Investments in group undertakings £m
Additions 812.2
Transfer from subsidiary undertaking 8,675.6
Disposals (6,381.6)
Investments in group undertakings at 31 March 2007 3,106.2
Long-term loan to subsidiary undertaking 2,864.3
At 31 March 2007 5,970.5
(i) Additions in the year comprised the fair value of the share incentives issued to employees of subsidiary undertakings during the period of
£23.6m and £788.6m in respect of a subscription for share capital in Experian Ireland Investments Limited, whose principal activity is to act as
an intra group finance company.
(ii) The transfer from subsidiary undertakings comprised the transfer of GUS plc and its subsidiary undertakings as part of the demerger process. 
(iii) Disposals comprised £3,497.6m in respect of the distribution of shares in Home Retail Group to the Company’s shareholders by way of
dividend in specie and a capital reduction of £4,852.0m by a subsidiary undertaking settled by a long-term loan with a fair value of £2,863.6m
and cash of £20.4m.
At 31 March 2007, the investment in group undertakings comprises the holdings of the whole of the issued share capital of Experian Investment
Holdings Limited, Experian Ireland Investments Limited and Experian Group Services Limited. The principal activity of Experian Group Services Limited
is the provision of administrative services to group companies.
The Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 132.
126 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the period ended 31 March 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 127
2007
H. Debtors – due within one year £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 0.1 
Taxation recoverable 1.6 
1.7 
2007
I. Creditors – amounts due within one year £m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 88.7 
Accruals 0.3 
Other creditors 0.4 
Overdraft 0.7
90.1 
At 31 March 2007, the Company had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £1,250m, all of which expires more than two years after the
balance sheet date.
J. Share capital and share premium
Number of Share Share
Ordinary shares capital premium
of US 10 cents
m £m £m
At 30 June 2006 on incorporation –– – 
Issued on demerger of Home Retail Group 877.4 46.9 8,628.7 
Capital reduction on 6 October 2006 – – (8,628.7)
Issued by way of Global Offer 142.9 7.7 792.3 
Global offer issuance costs – – (22.8)
Allotted under share option schemes 2.0 0.1 4.3
At 31 March 2007 1,022.3 54.7 773.8 
Authorised and issued share capital
On incorporation, the authorised share capital of the Company was US$10,000 divided into 10,000 Ordinary shares of US$1 each. Of such Ordinary
shares, two were issued and were paid up in full at a cost of US$2 each. On 13 September 2006 the shareholders passed special resolutions under
which each Ordinary share of US$1 each was sub-divided into 10 Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each and the authorised share capital of the
Company was increased from US$10,000 to US$200m by the creation of 1,999,900,000 additional Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each. The 20
Ordinary shares of 10 US cents then in issue were converted in to Deferred shares of 10 US cents each.
On 10 October 2006, the Company issued 877,444,999 Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each in connection with the demerger and on 11 October
2006 the Company issued a further 142,857,143 Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each by way of a Global Offer. Subsequent to 11 October 2006, a
further 1,979,664 Ordinary shares were allotted on the exercise of share options. At 31 March 2007, 1,022,281,806 Ordinary shares of 10 US cents
each and 20 Deferred shares of 10 US cents each had been allotted, called up and fully paid.
Share premium
As a result of the issue of 877,444,999 Ordinary shares of 10 US cents, referred to above, share premium of £8,628.7m arose, being the excess of
the fair value of the net assets of £8,675.6m acquired over the nominal value of £46.9m of the shares issued.
On 10 October 2006, following the approval of the Jersey Court under Article 63 of Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, the Company reduced its share
capital. This gave rise to a reduction of £8,628.7m in the share premium account and a corresponding increase in the profit and loss account
reserve.
As a result of the Company issuing 142,857,143 Ordinary shares of 10 cents each, by way of Global Offer, at a price of £5.60 per share, additional
share premium of £792.3m was created being the excess of the proceeds of the shares issued over their nominal value. Related issue costs of
£22.8m have been charged against the share premium account. Similarly, additional share premium of £4.3m was created in the period when
shares were allotted under share option schemes. The share premium account is not available for distribution. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
Total profit
Profit and loss
ESOP and loss account
shares account reserve
K. Reserves £m £m £m
Loss for the financial period – (4.2) (4.2)
Transfer to profit and loss account on reduction in share capital – 8,628.7 8,628.7 
Equity dividends paid during the period – (20.4) (20.4)
Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group – (3,497.5) (3,497.5)
Transfer of ESOP shares at fair value (80.1) 17.0 (63.1)
Purchase of ESOP shares (33.6) – (33.6)
Allotment of share options 27.7 – 27.7 
Credit in respect of share incentive schemes – 23.6 23.6 
At 31 March 2007 (86.0) 5,147.2 5,061.2
ESOP shares represent the cost of shares in the Company held by the following trusts to satisfy the Group’s obligations under its share incentive plans:
Number of
shares
Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust 13,419,683
GUS plc ESOP Trust 2,340,100
Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan 926,565
16,686,348
A total of 6,670,514 Ordinary shares were purchased by the Trusts from the date of incorporation to 31 March 2007 at a cost of £33.6m. A total of
15,090,260 shares were transferred from GUS plc to Experian Group Limited on novation of GUS plc’s interest in the GUS plc ESOP Trust for a fair
value of £63.1m. Subsequently a number of these shares have been transferred into the Experian Group Limited Exployee Share Trust.
Equity dividends of £20.4m were paid to those Experian Group Limited shareholders who did not elect to receive dividends under the Income
Access Share (’IAS’) arrangements. In total £28.5m of dividends were paid in the post demerger period of which £8.1m was paid by Experian
Finance plc (formerly GUS plc) under the IAS arrangements.
L. Commitments
(i) Capital commitments
There are no significant capital commitments relating to the Company. 
(ii) Operating lease commitments
The Company has an annual commitment of £0.3m in respect of the lease of the Group’s Corporate Headquarters in Ireland, this commitment
expires in more than five years. Rental payments commence in May 2008. 
M. Contingencies
At 31 March 2007, the Company is the guarantor of the retirement benefit obligations of the Group companies that participate in the Experian
Pension Scheme.
128 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the period ended 31 March 2007 N. Share options and awards
The Company has not repeated the disclosures required by FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’ as these are already included in note 31 of the Group
financial statements.
Details of the unexercised options are shown below and include those options granted to directors of the Company. Further details of options
granted to directors of the Company are contained in the report on directors’ remuneration on pages 53 and 54. 
2007
(i) Options and awards in respect of the Ordinary shares of the Company m
Experian Reinvestment Plan 10.3
Experian Co-Investment Plan 2.2
Experian Performance Share Plan 8.9
Experian Share Option Plan 17.7
Experian North American Share Option Plan 11.8
Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan/Free Share Plan 3.2
Experian Sharesave Plan 1.9
56.0
(ii) Awards under the Experian Reinvestment Plan
During the period ended 31 March 2007, awards were made under this plan in respect of 10,445,779 Ordinary shares in the Company. At 31
March 2007 awards in respect of 10,302,923 Ordinary shares remained outstanding and, as indicated in note K, shares have been purchased by the
Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust to meet obligations under this plan. These awards include those granted to directors, further details of
which are contained in the report on directors’ remuneration on page 56.
During the period ended 31 March 2007, no Ordinary shares were transferred from the Trust to beneficiaries of the Experian Reinvestment Plan.
(iii) Awards under the Experian Co-Investment Plan
During the period ended 31 March 2007, awards were rolled-over from the GUS plc Co-Investment Plan into the Experian Co-investment Plan in
respect of 2,223,009 Ordinary shares in the Company. At 31 March 2007, awards in respect of 2,223,009 Ordinary shares remained outstanding
and, as indicated in note K, shares have been purchased by the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust to meet obligations under this plan.
These awards include those granted to directors, further details of which are contained in the report on directors’ remuneration on page 56.
During the period ended 31 March 2007, 763,972 Ordinary shares were transferred from the Trust to beneficiaries of the Experian Co-Investment
Plan.
(iv) Awards under the Experian Performance Share Plan
During the period ended 31 March 2007, awards were rolled-over from the GUS plc Performance Share Plan in respect of 2,968,004 Ordinary shares
in the Company. In addition, during the period ended 31 March 2007 new awards in respect of 6,112,885 Ordinary shares of the Company were
made under this plan. At 31 March 2007, awards in respect of 8,873,114 Ordinary shares remained outstanding and, as indicated in note K, shares
have been purchased by the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust to meet obligations under this plan. These awards include those granted
to directors, further details of which are contained in the report on directors’ remuneration on page 55.
During the period ended 31 March 2007, no Ordinary shares were transferred from the Trust to beneficiaries of the Experian Performance Share Plan.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 129 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
130 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the period ended 31 March 2007
N. Share options and awards (continued)
(v) Options under the Experian Share Option Plan
Unexercised options granted under this scheme in respect of Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows:
Number
of shares
2007 Exercise price Period of exercise
Approved: 24,008 219.5p From 07.04.2003 to 06.04.2010 
8,379 358.0p From 11.06.2004 to 10.06.2011 
50,962 381.6p From 06.06.2005 to 05.06.2012 
161,335 394.7p From 19.06.2006 to 18.06 2013 
256,078 472.9p From 01.06.2007 to 31.05.2014 
244,047 501.7p From 31.05.2008 to 30.05.2015 
80,186 514.8p From 22.11.2008 to 21.11.2015 
146,459 578.5p From 11.10.2009 to 10.10.2019 
Non-Approved: 40,701 211.4p From 07.04.2003 to 06.04.2010 
671,751 344.8p From 11.06.2004 to 10.06.2011 
54,964 357.3p From 17.12.2004 to 16.12.2011 
936,272 367.5p From 06.06.2005 to 05.06.2012 
1,659,685 380.1p From 19.06.2006 to 18.06 2013 
54,799 426.0p From 02.12.2006 to 01.12.2013 
2,293,658 455.4p From 01.06.2007 to 31.05.2014 
21,566 487.9p From 24.11.2007 to 23.11.2014 
3,069,242 483.1p From 31.05.2008 to 30.05.2015 
82,273 495.8p From 22.11.2008 to 21.11.2015 
3,823,500 521.1p From 02.06.2009 to 01.06.2016 
4,021,593 560.0p From 11.10.2009 to 10.10.2019 
17,701,458
During the period ended 31 March 2007, 737,657 Ordinary shares were issued and 2,335,772 Ordinary shares were transferred to beneficiaries
following the exercise of such share options. These awards include those granted to directors, further details of which are contained in the report
on directors’ remuneration on pages 53 and 54. Experian Annual Report 2007  | 131
N. Share options and awards (continued)
(vi) Options under the Experian North American Share Option Plan
Unexercised options granted under this scheme in respect of Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows:
Number
of shares
2007 Exercise price Period of exercise
21,162 344.8p From 11.06.2002 to 10.06.2007 
1,013,400 367.5p From 06.06.2003 to 05.06.2008 
1,341,664 380.1p From 19.06.2004 to 18.06.2009 
49,852 426.0p From 02.12.2004 to 01.12.2009 
1,674,819 455.4p From 01.06.2005 to 31.05.2010 
6,326 487.9p From 24.11.2005 to 23.11.2010 
2,053,635 483.1p From 31.05.2006 to 30.05.2011 
8,499 495.8p From 22.11.2006 to 21.11.2011 
5,664,935 521.1p From 02.06.2007 to 01.06.2012 
11,834,292
All such options are to be satisfied by the transfer of already issued Ordinary shares and shares have been purchased for this purpose by the
Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust. During the period ended 31 March 2007, 1,222,262 Ordinary shares were transferred to beneficiaries
following the exercise of such options. These awards include those granted to directors, further details of which are contained in the report on
directors’ remuneration on pages 53 and 54.
(vii) Options under the Experian Sharesave Plan
Unexercised options granted under this scheme in respect of Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows:
Number
of shares
2007 Exercise price Period of exercise
230,344 305.6p From 01.09.2007 to 29.02.2008
157,623 296.8p From 01.09.2008 to 28.02.2009
151,007 378.7p From 01.09.2009 to 28.02.2010
14,098 386.6p From 01.09.2010 to 28.02.2011
730,292 378.7p From 01.09.2007 to 29.02.2008
634,251 401.4p From 01.09.2008 to 28.02.2009
1,917,615
During the period ended 31 March 2007, 2,562 Ordinary shares were issued and 1,239,302 Ordinary shares were transferred to beneficiaries
following the exercise of such share options. These awards include those granted to directors, further details of which are contained in the report
on directors’ remuneration on page 54.
In addition 309,628 Ordinary shares were issued in connection with a savings based share scheme in the United States.
(viii) Awards under the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan/Free Share Plan
During the period ended 31 March 2007, awards were made under this plan in respect of 3,222,065 Ordinary shares in the Company. At 31 March
2007, awards in respect of 3,190,815 Ordinary shares remained outstanding. 
During the period ended 31 March 2007, 929,877 Ordinary shares were issued to the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan Trust of which
3,212 were transferred to be beneficiaries of the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan. Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
132 | Experian Annual Report 2007
O. Principal subsidiary and associate undertakings
The principal subsidiary and associate undertakings at 31 March 2007, all of which are included in the Group financial statements, are listed below.
Percentage
Country of of ordinary
incorporation shares held
Experian Finance plc (formerly GUS plc) England and Wales 100%
Experian Holdings Limited England and Wales 100%
Experian Limited England and Wales 100%
ClarityBlue Limited England and Wales 100%
QAS Limited England and Wales 100%
Experian A/S Denmark 100%
Experian Holdings France S.A. France 100%
CreditInform AS Norway 100%
Experian North America, Inc. USA 100%
ConsumerInfo.com USA 100%
PriceGrabber.com USA 100%
LowerMyBills.com USA 100%
Experian Information Solutions Inc. USA 100%
Experian Services Corporation USA 100%
Experian Marketing Solutions Inc. USA 100%
Associate
First American Real Estate Solutions LLC USA 20%
None of the above undertakings are directly held by Experian Group Limited.
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the period ended 31 March 2007 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 133
Report of the auditors: parent company financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Experian Group Limited
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Experian Group Limited for the period ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the
parent company balance sheet, the parent company profit and loss account and the related notes and those parts of the report on directors’
remuneration described as being audited. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Experian Group Limited for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the report on directors’ remuneration and the parent company financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in
the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s
members as a body in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this
opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the
parent company financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial
statements. This other information comprises only the Group financial highlights, the directors’ report, the chairman’s statement, the business
review, the board of directors, the unaudited part of the report on directors’ remuneration and the corporate governance statement. We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We also review whether the report on directors’ remuneration complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial
Services Authority and report to you any non compliance.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in
the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of
the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of the loss for the period then ended;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991; and
• the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
22 May 2007 Introduction |  Business review  |  Governance  |  Financial statements
134 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Experian Home Retail Intra group Other Experian
Group Limited Group balances adjustments Group
pro forma
(Note a) (Note b) (Note c) (Note d)
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 5,342 (3,272) – – 2,070
Other intangible assets 926 (108) – – 818
Property, plant and equipment 1,670 (1,211) – – 459
Investment in associates 225 – – – 225
Deferred tax assets 547 (189) – – 358
Retirement benefit assets 31 (45) – 14 –
Trade and other receivables 89 (75) – – 14
Other financial assets 158 (13) – – 145
8,988 (4,913) – 14 4,089
Current assets
Inventories 1,538 (1,535) – – 3
Trade and other receivables 1,830 (2,574) 1,673 – 929
Current tax assets 207 (12) – – 195
Other financial assets 10 (4) – – 6
Cash and cash equivalents 385 (228) – – 157
3,970 (4,353) 1,673 – 1,290
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (2,421) 1,502 – 8 (911)
Loans and borrowings (303) 1,822 (1,820) – (301)
Current tax liabilities (481) 92 – – (389)
Provisions (155) 59 – 96 –
Other financial liabilities (37) 1 – – (36)
(3,397) 3,476 (1,820) 104 (1,637)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 573 (877) (147) 104 (347)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (144) 48 – – (96)
Loans and borrowings (3,599) 386 – – (3,213)
Deferred tax liabilities (350) 117 – – (233)
Retirement benefit obligations – – – (22) (22)
Provisions – 96 – (96) –
Other financial liabilities (14) – – – (14)
(4,107) 647 – (118) (3,578)
Net assets 5,454 (5,143) (147) – 164
A reconciliation between the consolidated balance sheet of Experian Group Limited and its subsidiary undertakings and the pro forma balance sheet
of the continuing Experian business (‘Experian Group pro forma’) at 31 March 2006 is set out above.
The basis on which this information has been prepared is as follows:
(a) As reported in the Annual Report and Financial Statements of GUS plc at 31 March 2006, represented in US$ at the exchange rate prevailing
at 31 March 2006.
(b) Extracted from the balance sheet information at 31 March 2006, contained in the 2007 Preliminary Announcement of Home Retail Group plc
issued in May 2007, represented in US$ at the exchange rate prevailing at 31 March 2006.
(c) Intra group balances represent the elimination and reclassification of balances between Home Retail Group and Experian as reported in the
2007 Preliminary Announcement of Home Retail Group plc.
(d) Other adjustments comprise the reclassification of balances between Experian and Home Retail Group.
Reconciliation to the Experian Group
pro forma balance sheet at 31 March 2006 Experian Annual Report 2007  | 135
Ordinary shareholders
There were 47,679 holders of Ordinary shares at 31 March 2007 and their holdings can be analysed as follows:
Percentage Number of
Number of of total number Ordinary shares Percentage of
shareholders of shareholders ‘000s Ordinary shares
Over 1,000,000 173 0.4 781,788 76.4
100,001 – 1,000,000 432 0.9 144,883 14.2
10,001 – 100,000 1,216 2.5 36,292 3.6
5,001 – 10,000 1,639 3.4 11,216 1.1
2,001 – 5,000 6,568 13.8 20,047 2.0
1 – 2,000 37,651 79.0 28,056 2.7
47,679 100.0 1,022,282 100.0
Shareholders are further analysed as follows:
Percentage Number of
Number of of total number Ordinary shares Percentage of
shareholders of shareholders ‘000s Ordinary shares
Corporates 11,764 24.7 966,109 94.5
Individuals 35,915 75.3 56,173 5.5
47,679 100.0 1,022,282 100.0
Experian website
A full range of investor information is available at www.experiangroup.com. The 2007 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) will be broadcast live on
the Internet; further details are included in the notice of meeting and on the website.
Electronic shareholder communication 
Shareholders may register for Shareview, an electronic communication service provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars on behalf of the Company’s
Registrar, Lloyds TSB (Jersey) Services Limited. Registration is via the Company’s website, www.experiangroup.com, or direct via
www.experianshareview.com. 
The service enables shareholders to access a comprehensive range of shareholder services online, including dividend payment information, the ability
to check shareholdings, amend address or bank details and submit AGM proxy voting instructions. 
When registering for Shareview, shareholders can select their preferred communication method, post or email. Subject to shareholder approval of
amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association, all shareholders will receive a written notification of the availability on the Group’s website of
shareholder documents, such as the interim and annual reports unless they have elected to receive either notification via email or paper copies of
shareholder documents. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (‘DRIP’) 
The DRIP enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to purchase Experian shares. Shareholders who wish to participate in the DRIP for the first
time, in respect of the second interim dividend to be paid on 27 July 2007, should return a completed and signed DRIP mandate form to be received
by the Registrar, by no later than 29 June 2007. For further details please contact the Registrars at the address below.
Capital Gains Tax (‘CGT’ ) base cost for UK shareholders
On 10 October 2006, GUS plc separated its Experian business from its Home Retail Group business by way of demerger. Following the demerger,
GUS shareholders at 4.30 pm on Friday 6 October 2006 were entitled to receive one share in Experian Group Limited and one share in Home Retail
Group plc for every share they held in GUS plc at that time. 
The previous base cost of any GUS plc shares held at 4.30pm on 6 October 2006 is apportioned for UK CGT purposes in the following ratio:
58.235% to Experian Group Limited shares and 41.765% to Home Retail Group plc shares (based on the closing prices of the respective shares on
their first day of trading after their admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 11 October 2006). 
For GUS plc shares acquired prior to the demerger of Burberry on 13 December 2005 which are affected by both the Burberry demerger and the
subsequent separation of Experian and Home Retail Group, the original CGT base cost is apportioned 50.604% to Experian Group Limited shares,
36.293% to Home Retail Group plc shares and 13.103% to Burberry Group plc shares. 
Shareholder information 600
2,000,000
24,00
60
6
20
Our Strategy
Management software
is used by over 600
organisations
worldwide
We support
clients in over
60 countries
On an average day,
Experian processes
two million credit
reference enquiries
More than 
24 million
people visit 
our Interactive
websites each
month
We have chosen six
essential responsibilities
to provide the focus for
our CR strategy
We introduced
over 20 new
products last year 
Annual Report 2007
Figuring it out...
Annual Report 2007
5
This was our fifth
consecutive year of
double-digit revenue
and profit growth
www.experiangroup.com
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Report
www.experiancrreport.com
This comprehensive online report explains 
Experian's CR strategy and how we are 
managing our responsibilities in six key areas
Explaining
Experian
www.explainingexperian.com
Explaining Experian provides further insight for 
investors into what Experian does, our products 
and services and the markets we serve
This document opens as a PDF
Operational headquarters
Experian
Talbot House
Talbot Street
Nottingham
NG80 1TH
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 115 941 0888
F: +44 (0) 115 934 4905
Experian
475 Anton Blvd.
Costa Mesa 
CA 92626
United States
T: +1 714 830 7000
F: +1 714 830 2449
Corporate headquarters
Experian Group Limited
Newenham House
Northern Cross
Malahide Road
Dublin 17
Ireland 
T: +353 (0) 1 846 9100
F: +353 (0) 1 846 9150
Corporate office
Experian
Cardinal Place 
80 Victoria Street
London
SW1E 5JL
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 20 304 24200
F: +44 (0) 20 304 24250
© 2007 Experian Ltd
All rights reserved
The word “Experian” is a 
registered trademark in the EU 
and other countries and is 
owned by Experian Ltd and/or 
its associated companies
6927 CoverArtwork_5.qxd  14/6/07  09:37  Page 1
