 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
ANNUAL REPORT AND 
ACCOUNTS 2014
FDM Group (Holdings) plc
(formerly Astra Topco Limited)
The next generation of IT and business Consultants Strategic Report
03 About FDM
05 Highlights
07 Chairman’s Statement
09 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Strategy Review
14 Our Markets
16 Key Performance Indicators
17 Principal Risks
21 Financial Review
23 Corporate Social Responsibility 
 
 
Governance
30 Board of Directors
32 Corporate Governance Report
44 Nomination Committee Report
46 Audit Committee Report
50 Remuneration Report
70 Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
74 Independent auditors’ report to the  
 members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc 
81 Consolidated Income Statement
82 Consolidated Statement of  
 Comprehensive Income
83 Consolidated Statement of  
 Financial Position
84 Consolidated Statement of  
 Cash Flows
85 Consolidated Statement of  
 Changes in Equity
86 Notes to the Consolidated  
 Financial Statements
113 Parent Company Statement of  
 Financial Position
114 Parent Company Statement of  
 Cash Flows
115 Parent Company Statement of  
 Changes in Equity
116 Notes to the Parent Company  
 Financial Statements
120 Shareholder Information
Contents Recruiting Training Placing
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3
The Group
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited, “the Company”) and its subsidiaries, (together “the Group”  
or “FDM”) is an international professional services provider focusing principally on Information Technology (“IT”). The  
ordinary shares of the Company were admitted to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List and began trading on 
the London Stock Exchange effective 20 June 2014 (hereafter referred to as the “Admission”). At the same time the name 
of the Company was changed to FDM Group (Holdings) plc from Astra Topco Limited.
Operations
The Group’s main business activities involve recruiting, training and placing our own permanent IT and business 
consultants with our customers across a range of technical and business disciplines including Development, Testing, 
Project Management Office (“PMO”), Data and Operational Analysis, Business Analysis, Business Intelligence and 
Production Support. The Group also supplies contractors to customers to supplement our consultants’ skill sets or 
provide greater experience.
The Group operates training academies and sales operations in dedicated facilities in London, Manchester, Glasgow, New 
York, Toronto and Frankfurt, has a sales office in Hong Kong and in addition operates in Singapore, South Africa, mainland 
China, Ireland, France, Switzerland and Luxembourg.
FDM has a significant number of blue chip customers across its operational territories and meets their demands through 
the provision of suitably qualified full-time employed consultants, known as Mounties, and external contractors. 
FDM strongly supports the recruitment of women into the IT industry and promotes their advancement through the 
“Women in IT” initiative. The Group also actively recruits ex-military personnel in both the UK and USA. 
Strategy
FDM’s strategy is to deliver sustainable growth and advancement on a consistent basis. FDM’s strategy requires  
that all activities and investments are customer led, produce the required level of profit and cash returns, deliver 
sustained and measurable improvements for all stakeholders including customers, staff and shareholders and  
further FDM’s objectives of offering career starts to talented people.
The Group’s strategy is to increase the number of Mounties on site delivering IT and business services to our  
customers through: 
• Establishing new training academies and investing in operational capacity and new service areas;
• Expanding our geographic presence across the territories in which we operate;
• Increasing the number of Mounties on site across our existing customer base and growing the number of new customers; and
• Being agile and responsive to shifting technology trends and customer demands.
About FDM
Strategic Report About FDM Motivation
We aim to be the best
Energy 
We thrive  
on activity
People
We are committed  
to our people
Performance
We deliver beyond expectation
Integrity 
We believe in  
who we are
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4
Strategic Report About FDM
FDM’s vision and values
To be recognised as the leading provider of innovative and specialised IT and business services making us the preferred 
choice in the market place. To create and inspire exciting careers that shape our digital future.
Forward-looking statements 
This Annual Report contains statements which constitute “forward-looking statements”. Although the Group believes 
that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these 
expectations will prove to have been correct. Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may 
differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
5
Highlights
Award-winning company
• The Sunday Times BDO Profit Track 100 2014
• The JobCrowd’s Top 100 Companies For Graduates  
To Work For 2014
• UK Tech Awards Private Equity Deal of the Year 2014
• CivilianJobs.com Most Valuable Employer (“MVE”)  
for Military USA 2014
• Military Times Best for Vets Employer USA 2014
• JobVoting.de Top Company 2014
2014
2013
£123.3m
£105.6m
Revenue
£123.3 million +17%
2014
2013 £22.6m
£24.9m
£24.9 million +10%
Group operating profit before 
exceptional items
2014
2013
17.5
15.4
17.5 pence +14%
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share
Calculated excluding the impact of exceptional items
2014
2013
£12.3m
(£9.0m)
£12.3 million +£21.3 m
Net Cash/(Debt)
FDM has delivered on its key financial, strategic and operational milestones.
 
Financial
Highlights FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6
Strategic and operational
Client service
During 2014 the business continued to develop existing and new service areas to further ensure that FDM services 
our customers’ changing requirements. During the year there was encouraging growth outside FDM’s core financial  
services sector, with Mounties deployed in government and local authorities, and the manufacturing, energy, transport  
and charity sectors.
People
The Group focused on strengthening its management, recruitment, sales and training teams. The result is the ability to 
locate and recruit the right individuals to join the Mountie programme, who can be expertly trained to deliver IT solutions 
on our client sites.
Mountie and geographic growth
Mountie headcount across the Group has seen strong growth with 1,539 Mounties placed on site at the beginning of 
week 52, an increase of 32% on 2013. The Group continues to increase its geographic presence. Operations commenced 
in both China and Ireland during 2014 and the Group secured Mountie growth in each geographic segment.
Mountie utilisation
A continued focus on monitoring and balancing the supply and demand for Mountie resource has resulted in a Mountie 
utilisation rate of 98.4% (2013: 97.6%), Mountie utilisation is the proportion of available time that Mounties are placed  
on site. 
Planning for growth
We invested in operational capacity and capabilities of the Group in the new locations of Toronto and Glasgow together 
with further training capacity in the New York office. The investment in the London office has seen the UK business 
further build the Group’s reputation and deliver more Mounties to customers.
Service areas
The UK Ex-Forces Programme was strengthened in January with the appointment of Colonel (Retd.) Stewart Sharman 
MBE, who served in the British Army for 25 years. In 2014 the programme placed over 50 ex-military personnel across a 
variety of roles and organisations, building upon the Group’s reputation as a valuable ex-forces employer which has been 
fostered in the US, where FDM was named CivilianJobs.com’s “Most Valuable Employer (“MVE”) for Military USA” and the 
Military Times’ “Best for Vets Employer USA” in 2014. 
Ownership
The Admission to the London Stock Exchange allows the Group to be free from borrowings and focus on investment in 
operations to facilitate planned growth. The development of the business and its successful Admission was recognised 
through the Group winning the UK Tech Awards 2014 “Private Equity Deal of the Year”.
Strategic Report Highlights FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
7
Overview of performance
I am delighted to be able to report on a year of first class performance by the 
Group. In June we delivered, in 11 weeks from a standing start, the Admission of 
the Company to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List. Subsequent to 
the Group’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange, we have gone on to deliver 
all that was expected of the Group at the time of listing. 
The core of FDM’s business is its Mountie model and the growth in headcount and 
revenue has been excellent. For the year to 31 December 2014 we saw Mountie 
revenues of £88.9 million, an increase of 20% over the previous year (2013: £73.8 
million). Mounties placed on site at 31 December 2014 stood at 1,539, an increase 
of 377 on the prior year. Mountie utilisation, a key measure of efficiency, for the 
year to 31 December 2014 was 98.4%, an improvement on the 2013 utilisation rate 
of 97.6%.
Total revenues for the year to 31 December 2014 grew by 17% to £123.3 million (2013: £105.6 million) which in  
turn produced an operating profit before exceptional items of £24.9 million an increase of 10% on the previous year  
(2013: £22.6 million). The Group operating profit after exceptional items for the same period was £19.5 million  
(2013: £20.9 million). Exceptional administrative expenses, totalling £5.4 million, principally relating to costs of Admission, 
have been adjusted where appropriate to present the underlying trading of the business.
Basic and fully diluted earnings per share before exceptional items for the year to 31 December 2014 were 17.5 pence per 
share (2013: 15.4 pence). Basic and fully diluted earnings per share after exceptional items for the year to 31 December 
2014 were 12.7 pence per share (2013: 14.1 pence).
At 31 December 2014 the Group had net cash of £12.3 million (2013: net debt of £9.0 million) and during the year repaid 
£15.0 million of borrowings with £12.0 million from cash generated from operations and £3.0 million of cash raised from 
the Initial Public Offering. The Group had no borrowings at 31 December 2014.
People
I would like to thank all of our employees and other stakeholders for their hard work and dedication over the past year. 
FDM is a people business and the expertise and commitment of our people enables us to drive the business forward and 
helps to underpin our strong reputation with our customers.
The Board
Upon Admission the Group welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors to the Board. Peter Whiting, Jonathan Brooks 
and Robin Taylor bring many years of relevant and valuable experience to the team. Our Inflexion colleagues John Hartz 
and Richard Swann resigned just prior to Admission; we thank them for their contribution to the Group during their 
period of stewardship.
Dividend
The Board believes in a progressive dividend policy for the Company which will seek to maximise shareholder value 
and returns and reflect the strength of earnings and cash flows generated by the Group. It is the Directors’ intention to 
declare an interim dividend of 7.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of the period from Admission on 20 June 2014 
to 31 December 2014. The proposed interim dividend is subject to final Board approval at a meeting of the Board to be  
held on 30 April 2015.
Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8
Outlook
2014 was a year of significant progress from a corporate perspective for the Group with Admission in June and 
operationally on a number of fronts with new office openings, new service offerings, record numbers of Mounties on site 
and the launch of the UK’s ex-Forces initiative.
I am delighted that 2015 has started strongly for the Group with headcount growth in front of our expectations and good 
operating performances being recorded in each of our geographies. It is very encouraging to note that our UK business, 
by far the largest element of the Group, has seen strong and growing demand from late 2014 continue into 2015. Equally 
I am very pleased to note that our North American operations in New York and Toronto have seen an excellent start to 
2015 with Mountie headcount ahead of our expectations.
With the breadth and depth of our offering enhanced and good momentum from strong current trading, I am confident 
that the Group will deliver another year of good progress in 2015.
Ivan Martin 
Chairman 
 
10 March 2015
Strategic Report Chairman’s Statement FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
9
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
2014 was a pivotal year for the Group with the successful Admission in June 
providing a stable ownership base for the Group to deliver on our ambitious 
growth plans.
2014 saw the Group hit a number of important milestones, with over 1,500 
Mounties placed on site at the end of the year, the successful openings of our 
Toronto and Glasgow operations, and the full operational benefits of our flagship 
London headquarters coming through following our move to the significantly 
larger premises in late 2013. From a financial perspective we delivered revenues 
up by 17% to £123.3 million and an operating profit before exceptional items of 
£24.9 million, an increase of 10% on 2013. We ended the year with no borrowings 
and net cash balances of £12.3 million.
UK and Ireland
The Group’s UK and Ireland operations performed exceptionally in 2014, passing the target of 1,000 Mounties on site in 
December and finished the year with a further 101 Mounties undergoing training in our academy. The UK is the test bed 
for new initiatives and service areas for the Group. The newest service area is Data and Operational Analysis, which has 
grown to over 130 Mounties on site and will be replicated in other FDM locations.
In January 2014 we launched our Ex-Forces Programme in the UK, to replicate for ex-Forces personnel the training and 
career opportunities that we have traditionally provided for graduates. We recruited Colonel (Retd.) Stewart Sharman 
MBE to head this initiative and to consider the prospective UK market for well-trained ex-Forces personnel. It is pleasing 
to report that our Ex-Forces Programme exceeded our expectations in 2014; with more than 50 people with a Forces 
background on placement as Mounties at 31 December 2014. There is not a “typical” member of ex-Forces personnel 
recruited by the Group. These men and women may have been in any of the Armed Services, in front-line or supporting 
roles and have served any number of years in the Forces. What typifies them is that they are capable, motivated and keen 
to start a new career working for FDM.
We added notably to our client base throughout 2014 across many sectors. Our growth outside of our core financial 
services operations was encouraging and we now operate across a number of Government and local authority 
departments, more widely in manufacturing, energy and transport, and have Mounties deployed in a number of  
charitable organisations.
2014 saw the UK operation source, train and place its first Irish Mounties with customers in Dublin and Cork, whilst also 
placing some with UK customers. We see Ireland as an important source of talent and customer opportunity in the future.
North America
Growth in the USA during the year, while strong, was initially slower than we had anticipated due to delays in customer 
driven programmes on a small number of key accounts. This delay has now been resolved and I am confident that the 
USA, which had 272 Mounties on site at the beginning of week 52 2014, is well placed for further growth 2015.
Our Canadian office was opened in Toronto in January 2014 and has exceeded our expectations with 69 Mounties on 
site at the beginning of week 52 2014 and a further 20 in training in the academy at the year end. So far we have secured 
new customers for the Group from Toronto and Montreal and have successfully placed Mounties in other regions for a 
number of these customers. Effective from 1 January 2015 we have combined the operational management of our New 
York and Toronto offices into a single function.
Chief Executive’s Review FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
2015 has started
with all parts 
of the Group 
performing well  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
11
EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding UK and Ireland)
Our German operation has benefited from the appointment of a new leader in the fourth quarter of 2013. 2014 
operations saw a record number of Mounties joining the Frankfurt academy and on site with our German customers. In 
Switzerland the decline in Mountie headcount at our two major customers experienced during 2013 has been reversed. 
The German and Swiss operations have benefited from a refocusing of operations away from the contractor market to 
expanding the Mountie programme; this has increased the number of Mounties on site, with 117 Mounties placed on 
site across EMEA at the start of week 52 2014, although total revenue and operating profit in the region have decreased 
during this transition. It is our intention to increase the footprint of our Frankfurt operation and broaden the training and 
service areas that we offer.
APAC (Asia Pacific)
Our APAC operation performed robustly in 2014, with 63 Mounties on site at week 52 (2013: 31) and a strong pipeline of 
Mounties in training and new customer wins. As we operate through a sales office rather than an academy in this region it 
remains more difficult to balance supply and demand. Mounties are recruited as they complete their university education 
and FDM training in other operating regions. However, as we have now started to achieve critical mass in APAC, we are 
evaluating the feasibility of opening an academy in Singapore to assist in the recruitment and training of graduates. 
Initiatives
The FDM Women in IT initiative is going from strength to strength, with 25% of the Group’s workforce now comprising 
females, which is higher than many other companies in the technology sector. Championing diversity in the workplace 
beyond gender is also a key focus for us. 
Strategy
FDM’s strategy is to deliver sustainable growth and advancement on a consistent basis. FDM’s strategy requires that all 
activities and investments are customer led, produce the required level of profit and cash returns and deliver sustained 
and measurable improvements for all stakeholders including customers, staff and shareholders, and further FDM’s 
objectives of offering career starts to talented people.
Summary and outlook
Following a strong performance in 2014 we continue to focus on widening the Group’s international footprint and on 
developing new service areas and sectors to provide a robust base from which to drive future growth. We have identified 
new office space in Leeds, a replacement and upsizing of our closing Manchester office, which will be fully operational 
during the second half of 2015. We also have under consideration other potential sites outside the UK that meet  
our requirements. 
The addition of the UK Ex-Forces Programme in January 2014 has delivered much for the Group and its clients; we will 
continue to fund and nurture such investments to spread the reach and attraction of FDM. 2015 has started with all parts 
of the Group performing well. While it is early in the new financial year, our expectations are underpinned by continuing 
strong customer demand and good levels of applications for our Mountie programme, driven by a healthy marketplace 
and our growing reputation.
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2015
Chief Executive’s Review Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
12
Strategy Review
Growth markets
FDM’s growth strategy is to focus on delivering highly trained and motivated individuals to large scale clients on a 
continuous basis in the locations we operate within and in line with the Group’s expansion strategy. By opening offices 
which include both an academy and a sales function in locations with high numbers of existing and potential clients 
coupled with good universities and transport infrastructures we know that we can attract, train and place Mounties. 
Significant growth of operations in North America was seen with the opening of a new sales office and academy in 
Toronto, generating a 49% increase in revenue. The Group also expanded operations into China and Ireland which 
bolstered growth in the UK and Ireland and APAC regions. The strategic refocus in EMEA into growing the Mountie model 
and operations saw Mountie numbers increase by 50% at the year-end which is starting to offset the reduction in revenue 
from running down the contractor base in the region.
Skills and training
Growth in the Group’s client base and the spread of industries in which those clients operate has 
generated opportunities to launch new service areas and additional sources from which to recruit 
additional Mounties, for example our ex-Forces personnel. The assessment of client demand, 
potential new service areas and sources of future Mounties is a continual process of evaluation, 
assessment and consideration. 2014 saw the introduction in the UK, the test bed for the Group, 
of Business Intelligence and Business Analysis training programmes both of which have shown 
encouraging client adoption.
2015 will see us trial Compliance (particularly relevant to major finance institutions) and a Cyber service area (applicable 
to all organisations at risk of hacking or penetration attacks), for both of which we have established that there is strong 
client demand. 2015 will also see us expand in geographies outside of the UK some of the service areas that have been 
successfully developed in the UK, the first of which is expected to be the formal launch of the Data Analysis service area 
in North America.
Our strategy
FDM’s strategy is to deliver sustainable growth and advancement on a consistent basis. FDM’s strategy requires that all 
activities and investments are customer led, produce the required level of profit and cash returns, deliver sustained and 
measurable improvements for all stakeholders including customers, staff and shareholders and further FDM’s objectives 
of offering career starts to talented people.
The Group’s strategy is to increase the number of Mounties on site delivering IT and business services to our 
 customers through: 
• Establishing new training academies and investing in operational capacity and new service areas;
• Expanding our geographic presence across the territories in which we operate;
• Increasing the number of Mounties on site across our existing customer base and growing the number of new 
customers; and
• Being agile and responsive to shifting technology trends and customer demands.
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
13
Extending Mountie numbers
The number of Mounties placed in all territories increased in the year to 31 December 2014, with 
1,539 placed on site at the beginning of week 52 2014, up from 1,162 in week 52 2013. Academy 
capacity is not a restrictive factor for the Group; temporary training space is sourced to match 
capacity to geographic training requirements. With 186 Mounties in training at the end of the year 
there is a strong pipeline of Mounties to be placed in 2015.
Our customer base has also expanded in the year with new customers in all regions as well as moving into a wider range 
of sectors including government and travel together with manufacturing, energy, transport and charity sectors.
Growth in placed Mounties by geographic segment
APAC +103%
+50% EMEA
Number of Mounties placed on site at beginning of week 52
North 
America
UK and 
Ireland
0 200 400 600 800 1,000
Number of Mounties 2013
Number of Mounties 2014 
(movement on 2013)
+72%
+19%
People
FDM is a people business in all elements and aspects of its operations. The Group has strong 
management, recruitment, sales and training teams. We look to employ individuals with ability, 
ambition and drive and to give them the skills that they require in order to become operationally 
capable, from day one, in the workplace. This applies as much to our own in-house staff across all 
disciplines including sales, training, recruitment and finance as it does for our Mounties that we 
place on customer sites. 
Contractors
The Group has developed a pool of IT contractors that are used to supplement the skills offered by 
Mounties on its projects and for its customers, in particular where they have specific requirements. 
The contractors also enable the Group to meet clients’ IT requirements flexibly and promptly, whilst 
providing a customer relationship through which the Group can cross-sell its Mountie services.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, contractor revenue totalled £34.4 million (2013: £31.8 million) and the number of 
contractors placed on site in all territories at the beginning of week 52 2014 was 306 (2013: 288).
The Group continues to place contractors at client sites to meet demand, as the fees generated contribute to ongoing 
revenue, albeit at a reduced margin compared with Mounties. Whilst the Group aims to maintain the revenue generated 
from contractors, the main focus is the higher margin Mountie programme.
Strategy Review North America 2014 2013
Revenue £22.1m £14.8m
Operating proﬁ t before 
exceptional items
£5.5m £3.5m
Operating proﬁ t £5.4m £3.4m
Mountie numbers 341 198
APAC 2014 2013
Revenue £1.9m £1.3m
Operating proﬁ t before 
exceptional items
£0.3m £0.1m
Operating proﬁ t £0.3m £0.1m
Mountie numbers 63 31
UK and Ireland 2014 2013
Revenue £90.3m £77.3m
Operating proﬁ t before 
exceptional items
£18.1m £17.4m
Operating proﬁ t £12.8m £15.7m
Mountie numbers 1,018 855
EMEA 2014 2013
Revenue £8.9m £12.2m
Operating proﬁ t before 
exceptional items
£1.0m £1.7m
Operating proﬁ t £1.0m £1.7m
Mountie numbers 117 78
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
14
Highlights
UK and Ireland
The UK and Ireland remained the cornerstone of the Group’s 
operations with 1,018 Mounties (2013: 855) placed on site 
at the beginning of week 52 2014, an increase of 19%, and 
total UK and Ireland revenue generated for the year to  
31 December 2014 increased by 17% to £90.3 million 
 (2013: £77.3 million). Operating profit before exceptional 
items for the UK for the year to 31 December increased by 
4% to £18.1 million (2013: £17.4 million). The operating profit 
excluding exceptional items growth of 4% is lower than the 
revenue growth of 17%, primarily due to the impact of higher 
fixed property costs following the move to new London 
premises in late 2013.
As the hub of the Group, the UK continues to act as the test 
bed for new service areas and has a number of initiatives in development that should broaden the Group’s sector, 
customer and potential Mountie reach through widening the disciplines in which we train. 
Relocation of our flagship London academy and offices has more than doubled our capacity to recruit and train Mounties 
in the South East of England. In July 2014 we opened our new Glasgow academy and offices, which we believe will better 
enable us to support our customers and Mounties in Scotland and the North of England and also access new customers 
in the region. Our Irish entity began trading in 2014.
Our Markets
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
15
North America
During 2014 our New York operation expanded its activities 
further afield with Mounties being assigned not just in the  
Tri-State area but also in Tennessee, Illinois and Texas. The 
New York office expanded into an additional floor at its Wall 
Street premises and we opened our Toronto office in January 
2014 which has increased the supply and placement of 
Mounties in Canada. Following a slow start to the year, the 
increase in North America capacity and a number of significant 
new customers delivered a strong base for this operation to 
recruit, train and place new Mounties on site throughout the 
remainder of the year. The increase in operational capacity 
which in the short term has reduced profitability, provides the 
platform for growth in 2015. 
The combined North American operations revenue increased by 49% to £22.1 million for the year to 31 December 2014 
(2013: £14.8 million) and operating profit before exceptional items increased by 57% to £5.5 million (2013: £3.5 million). 
Mounties placed on site at the beginning of week 52 2014 in North America were 341 (2013: 198), an increase of 72%. 
EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding UK and Ireland) 
EMEA saw revenues decrease by 27% to £8.9 million (2013: 
£12.2 million) and operating profit before exceptional 
items reduce by 41% to £1.0 million (2013: £1.7 million). 
These changes result principally from the refocusing of 
German operations following the decision to run down the 
existing contractor base and focus on growing the Mountie 
model. The increased upfront costs associated with training  
Mounties reduced operating profits in the period but should 
show returns in future periods, whilst the average revenue  
per Mountie was lower than the average revenue per 
contractor.  At the same time the rate of reduction of 
contractors was faster than the assignment of Mounties to 
roles. Mounties placed on site in EMEA at the beginning of 
week 52 2014 were 117 (2013: 78), an increase of 50%. 
APAC (Asia Pacific)
Revenues for APAC for the year to 31 December 2014 were 
up 46% to £1.9 million (2013: £1.3 million). Operating profit 
before exceptional items for the year to 31 December 2014 
was £0.3 million (2013: £0.1 million). APAC Mounties placed 
on site at the beginning of week 52 were 63, up from 2013’s 
number of 31. During 2014 in APAC we incorporated a wholly 
foreign owned entity in Shanghai and now have our first 
Mounties placed on site in mainland China.
Our Markets FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
16
Key Performance Indicators 
We focus on a number of Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) to identify trends in the trading performance of the Group. 
The Group aims to increase profitability whilst maintaining a healthy balance sheet and investing in the operations 
and geographies which underpin the organic growth of the Group. The Group continues to deliver strong margins and 
converts profits into operating cash for investment providing a return to shareholders. The KPIs targets used as a basis 
for remuneration awards are included in the Remuneration Report. 
A key highlight in the year was surpassing 1,500 Mounties on site with growth in Mountie numbers across all operating 
regions and increasing the utilisation levels of our Mounties. The adjusted numbers in the KPIs analysis remove the 
impact of exceptional costs in the period to provide clear underlying trading performance.
 
 
 
1
 The adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax are calculated before exceptional items. 
2
 The adjusted earnings per share, cash generated from operations and cash conversion is calculated before the impact of exceptional items.
Key Performance Indicators
Mountie revenue (£m) 
Increased Mounties on site throughout the 
year has driven revenue growth
Mounties on client sites (start of week 52) 
Increase in Mounties on site across all 
segments and in key service areas 
Mountie utilisation rate (%) 
Mountie utilisation rates have increased 
allowing for greater days billed per Mountie
2013 2014
73.8
2013 2014
88.9
+20%
1,162
2013 2014
1,539
+32%
97.6
98.4
+0.8%
Total revenue (£m) 
Strong organic growth from Mountie model 
with contractor revenue increasing by 8%
Adjusted earnings per share
2
 (pence) 
We have delivered solid earnings growth 
in our year of Admission
Adjusted operating profit
1 
(£m) 
The Group delivered operating profit growth 
and invested in its operational capacity
Cash generated from operations
2
 (£m) 
The Group had cash balances of £12.3 million 
at the year end and was borrowings free
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 (£m) 
Mountie utilisation rates have increased 
allowing for greater days billed per Mountie
Cash conversion
2
 (%) 
The Group is highly cash generative and this 
reflects our ability to turn profits into cash
105.6
2013 2014
123.3
+17%
15.4
2013 2014
17.5
+14%
22.6
2013 2014
24.9
+10%
22.8
2013 2014
24.6
+8%
21.7
2013 2014
24.4
+13%
105.5
2013 2014
101.1
-4%
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
17
Principal Risks
As with all businesses there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the 
Group’s long term performance. 
Details of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are set out below together with the mitigating activities in place to 
address them and to reduce risk to the Group. 
Details of the Group’s financial risk management are included in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Strategic and market risks
Risk and impact Mitigation
Prolonged economic downturn in the Group’s key markets 
and sectors 
• Reduction in IT expenditure and projects for FDM customers 
and the wider market place
• Downward pricing pressure experienced leading to a  
reduction in margins
• Surplus of unutilised Mounties
• Increased competition to win new business
• The Group is able to manage its resource availability through 
varying the numbers of graduates it recruits
• Diversification of the Group’s customer base by geography  
and by sector
• Benchmarking of competitors to ensure competitively priced 
within the marketplace
• Creating a multi-skilled workforce that can be redistributed to 
different locations and customers within operating territories
The Group has concentration exposure in the banking and 
 financial services sector  
• Exposure to changes in market conditions in one sector  
or over-reliance on customer buying patterns 
• Focus on increasing service offering and embedding the 
Mountie model into existing customers
• Strategic focus on diversification of the Group’s customer 
base through active expansion and penetration into different 
sectors and new customers
Ability to balance supply and demand 
• Inappropriate recruitment levels for customer demands  
leading to under or oversupply
• Reduced utilisation levels with an increase in opportunity cost
• Customer confidence affected by short term inflexibility to  
their needs 
• Reputational impact on graduates and customers
• Resource management meetings are undertaken weekly to 
discuss supply and demand and proactively identify and set 
resolution plans for issues 
• Management team incentivised to increase utilisation and 
increase flow through of graduates within the academies
• Recruitment team maintains strong relationships with  
universities and other channels of recruitment 
• Spread of geographic presence for recruitment, training  
and sales operations
Principal Risks FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
18
People risks
Risk and impact Mitigation
Ability of Senior Management team to exercise required  
oversight over growing UK and overseas business 
• Failure to deliver the Group’s key business strategies  
across locations
• Value from management could be diminished from  
distraction of non-value adding activities
• Increased risk of fraud and potential damage  
to reputation 
• Regular reviews of management structure to ensure sufficient 
experience, capability, suitability and size
• Identification of people and team strategies focusing  
on capability and depth
• Managing Directors (“MDs“) appointed in 2014 for each region 
to provide focus and further operational oversight
• Senior management presence across locations periodically to 
monitor focus of regional management
Ability to recruit, manage and retain high quality candidates  
working for FDM 
• Loss of customers due to not meeting their availability  
and quality requirements 
• Potential damage to reputation
• Employees no longer in employment of the Group 
establishing competing companies 
• Continual review of the Group’s recruitment strategy  
and remuneration packages 
• Development of on-site management/interaction for 
Mounties, long term career opportunities and training  
after the Mounties’ contracted bond period
• Promoting Women in IT initiatives to attract, develop  
and retain Mountie talent
• Expansion of recruitment channels and geographic  
spread of offices
• Promotion of reputation in marketplaces as a leading 
graduate employer
• Strengthening of relationships with key customers  
and universities 
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
19
Operational risks
Risk and impact Mitigation
Ability of business to effectively upscale 
• Failure to implement an effective academy and sales 
expansion programme with the required return  
on investment 
• Operational capability constraints for enlarged scale
• Lack of sufficient focused resources (people and financial) to 
implement growth strategy
• Ability of current IT systems to effectively support growth
• Research, identification, support and assessment of 
investment opportunities
• Monitoring operational and financial KPIs to ensure delivering 
to strategy and required return on investment
• Assessment and action resource allocations into targeted 
areas for investment
• Sales Managers have regular contact with customers to 
ensure the Group identifies customer needs and tailors 
solutions in response
• Ongoing assessment of people capabilities, internal policies 
and processes to ensure these are effective  
and fit for purpose
• Reviewing system requirements and implementing  
new systems as necessary  
Ability of Group to develop new service offerings in line with  
developments of new IT solutions and customer requirements 
• Ability to meet customer demand resulting in loss of revenue 
and market share
• Customers purchase from competition and the market  
for services is reduced
• Flexible training model to develop course material relevant for 
customers’ needs
• Feedback from customers, Mounties and other sources are 
reviewed by local MDs to facilitate the development  
of training materials and work practices for the future 
• Design of the new training academies used to embrace 
working practices/culture and provide training in a 
professional environment
• Development function set up to ensure quality and 
consistency across the Group’s training together  
with researching and implementing new service  
areas and technologies
Principal Risks FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
20
Operational risks
Risk and impact Mitigation
Compliance with international tax, legal, employment and 
other business regulations 
• Impact on reputation
• Risk of incurring significant costs due to fines or revocation  
of business licences
• The Group has robust recruitment procedures which ensure 
the employment of appropriately skilled personnel in areas 
where compliance with legislation is required
• The Group seeks appropriate advice and engages external 
advisors as appropriate, particularly in overseas locations,  
and proactively manages those relationships 
Growth of Group’s cash balances beyond Group’s  
foreseeable requirements 
• The Group’s cash balances grow beyond its foreseeable 
requirements, resulting in rates of return below 
shareholder expectations 
• The Group is aiming for a progressive dividend policy  
to maximise shareholder value
• The Group is investing in its operations and capacity 
together with expanding its geographic locations to  
meet the growing demand of Mounties
Strategic Report Principal Risks FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
21
Financial Review
Group results 
Reflecting its successful growth strategy, the Group delivered a strong operating 
performance during the year, with Group revenues increasing by 17% to £123.3 
million (2013: £105.6 million).
Gross margins in 2014 were unchanged from 2013 at 39% which taken with the 
step change in overheads relating principally to the increase in academy locations 
opened in London (December 2013), Toronto (January 2014) and Glasgow (June 
2014) combined to generate an increase in operating profit before exceptional costs 
of 10% to £24.9 million (2013: £22.6 million). Exceptional costs related primarily to 
the costs associated with the Admission of the Group and share based payments 
total £5.4 million and reduced the Group operating profit to £19.5 million (2013: 
£20.9 million). 
Earnings per share before exceptional items was 17.5 pence (2013: 15.4 pence) whilst earnings per share after exceptional 
items was 12.7 pence (2013: 14.1 pence), the reduction reflecting the higher exceptional expenses in the year ended  
31 December 2014.
Total headcount placed on site at 31 December 2014 was 1,845 (2013: 1,450). Of this total 1,539 were Mounties  
(2013: 1,162) and 306 contractors (2013: 288). This represents a 27% increase in the total headcount placed on site and 
32% increase in Mounties placed on site.
Contractor revenue for the year to 31 December 2014 increased by 8% to £34.4 million (2013: £31.8 million). Whilst 
Mountie revenue was 20% higher at £88.9 million (2013: £73.8 million) within this total and reflecting the planned 
geographic expansion of the Group’s customer base, UK and Ireland Mountie revenue increased by 15% to £61.7 million 
(2013: £53.6 million), North American Mountie revenue increased by 53% to £18.0 million (2013: 11.7 million), whilst 
Mountie revenue in EMEA increased by 1% to £7.3 million (2013: £7.2 million) and APAC increased by 46% to £1.9 million 
(2013: £1.3 million).
The relative movement in Mountie and contractor headcount and related revenues reflect the Group’s intention to 
increase Mountie revenues, which generate a higher gross margin; this is being driven by growth in the number of 
Mounties placed at existing and new customers, as well as the launch of new Mountie service areas.
Exceptional items
Exceptional expenses related primarily to the costs associated with the Admission of the Group of £4.9 million and 
exceptional staff costs (principally share based payments) of £0.5 million (2013: total exceptional items of £1.8 million). 
These reduced the Group operating profit to £19.5 million (2013: £20.9 million). For further details see note 10 in the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Net finance expense
Finance income was £0.004 million and finance costs £0.5 million, giving a net finance cost of £0.5 million. The net finance 
expense relates principally to interest on the drawn element of the Group’s revolving credit facility, non-utilisation charges 
on the undrawn element of the Group’s revolving credit facility and fees arising from the Group’s working capital facility.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate for the year was 28.9% (2013: 26.0%) which is higher than the underlying UK tax rate of 
21.5% (2013: 23.25%) due to profits earned in higher tax jurisdictions as well as non-deductible expenses incurred in 
relation to Admission. £4.0m of non-deductible expenses for tax purposes resulted in an increase of £0.9m to the current 
income tax charge. The adjusted effective tax rate (calculated before the impact of exceptional items) for the year was 
23.6% (2013: 25.7%).
Financial Review FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
22
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before exceptional items were 17.5 pence (2013: 15.4 pence) whilst earnings per share after 
exceptional items were 12.7 pence per share (2013: 14.1 pence per share).
 
Statement of financial position and net funds
The Group generated net cash flows from operations of £19.3 million in the year (2013: £21.3 million), contributing to 
closing net funds of £12.3 million (2013: net debt £9.0 million). The Admission on 20 June 2014 included the issue of  
2.8 million new shares for consideration in cash which raised approximately £8.0 million of funds for the Group; this cash 
was used to meet the expenses of Admission that fell to the Group and to repay £3.0 million of the Group’s revolving credit 
facility. The remainder of the facility has been repaid through cash flows generated during the year. Cash conversion, 
adjusted for the impact of exceptional items remains healthy at 101.1% (2013:105.5%). The composition of net funds is 
defined in note 22 of the Financial Statements starting on page 107.
At the end of the financial year, the Group held total facilities of £30.0 million (2013: £30.0 million). Of the committed 
facilities, £10.0 million was available to February 2015 (now expired) and £20.0 million available until August 2018.  
The committed facilities are in place to support the Group’s financing needs and provide headroom against  
forecast requirements. 
 
Banking facilities and treasury 
The Group treasury policy aims to ensure that capital held is not put at risk and the treasury function is managed under 
policies and procedures approved by the Board. These policies are designed to reduce the financial risk arising from the 
Group’s normal trading activities, which primarily relate to credit, interest, liquidity and currency risk. The Group is, and 
expects to continue to be, cash positive and currently holds net deposits.
 
Dividend
The Board intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy, which will allow it to retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing 
operating requirements, an appropriate level of dividend cover and funds to invest in the Group’s long term growth. It 
is the Directors’ intention to declare an interim dividend of 7.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of the period from 
Admission on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 2014. The proposed interim dividend is subject to final Board approval at a 
meeting of the Board to be held on 30 April 2015.
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
10 March 2015 
Strategic Report Financial Review FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
23
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Directors continually consider the Group’s impact on its stakeholders including employees, contractors, trainees, 
customers, suppliers, investors and the wider community. Management ensures that the decisions made are responsible 
and ethical by taking into consideration the wider society external to the organisation. The Group is committed to 
contributing towards creating a sustainable environment and community in which it operates as a business.
 
Employees
The Directors recognise that the success of the business as a whole is dependent on all of our staff at every level and 
continue to invest in our employees through provision of training initiatives. Our focus and ethos as a company is built on 
training and developing individuals who make a positive difference and reach their full potential. 
We communicate with employees regularly via email, staff magazines, monthly newsletters and face to face meetings in 
order to ensure that they are being supported especially when placed remotely on site. We also host annual events to 
reward employees for their contribution as well as granting length of service awards to congratulate those that have been 
with the Group for a significant period of time. The FDM Consultant of the Month and FDM Stars initiatives are designed 
to reward those that are excelling, as nominated by our customers and other employees in the business.
 
Diversity and inclusion in the workplace
The Group’s workforce is made up of around 60 nationalities working together and is dedicated to promoting a diverse 
workforce that reflects wider society. There is zero tolerance towards discrimination throughout all our business activities 
whether it relates to race, nationality, religion, disability, gender, age, sexual orientation or any other such discrimination 
where an individual may feel marginalised. Where possible we make reasonable adjustments for individuals to 
accommodate their needs. The Group reached the finalist stage of the European Diversity Awards in 2014 in the category 
of Company of the Year.
 
Supporting ex-Forces personnel
The dedicated Ex-Forces Programme operated by our business in the UK has demonstrated the Group’s support of 
the Armed Forces through the offering of IT and business careers to the ex-Forces community. The UK business has 
been recognised in this area through its work with the British Forces Resettlement Services and the Careers Transitions 
Partnership, as well as signing the Ministry of Defence Armed Forces Corporate Covenant to demonstrate our support to 
the Armed Forces community. 
In the USA we have been recognised for our commitment to former Servicemen and women in launching a career. 
In 2014, FDM was announced a “Best for Vets Employer” by The Military Times and “Most Valuable Employer for Military” 
by Civilianjobs.com. FDM continues to show its support for veteran assistance organisations in the community as a 
sponsor for “Army Week”, “Wall Street Rocks for our Heroes” and the “United War Veterans Council”.
 
People with disabilities
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the employment of disabled persons. In the event of members of staff 
becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group continues either in the job 
or in a suitable alternative. The Group endeavours to make any reasonable adjustments to enable disabled employees 
to fulfil the responsibilities of their job role. It is the Group’s policy to support disabled employees in all aspects of their 
training, development and promotion where it benefits the employee and the Group. 
Corporate Social Responsibility FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24
The Group 
is proud to be 
championing  
Women in IT  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
25
Gender diversity
The Group is proud to be championing “Women in IT” and 43% of the Group Senior Management Team is female. 
As at 31 December 2014 Number of males Number of females
On the Board 7 1
Within Senior Management 13 10
All employees 1,397 459
The Group hosts regular “Advantage Sessions” to encourage women to consider a career in IT and holds annual 
customer events to discuss what leaders can do to increase gender diversity in the workplace. Internally we have  
20 Female Champions who act as role models and mentors to other women in the business. We take part in judging 
awards, networking events and speaker panels, as well as hosting the annual “FDM everywoman in Technology 
Awards” that are designed to celebrate and reward outstanding women in the industry. In Germany, FDM signed the  
Komm mach MINT Memorandum, a government initiative to encourage companies to support more women into  
science and technology careers. FDM also joined the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (“UNWEP”), 
sealing our commitment to promoting gender diversity in the workplace and the wider business community.  
FDM’s Chief Operating Officer, Sheila Flavell, has been recognised in the “100 Women to Watch” Cranfield School of 
Management Female FTSE Report in 2013 and 2014, as well as Brummell Magazine’s “Top 30 Most Inspirational Female 
Entrepreneurs in the City” in 2014.
 
Our community
The Group believes that it has a responsibility to contribute towards the local community and wider society, and actively 
encourages individual and collective initiatives to support this. In 2014, the Group carried out fundraising events globally 
to raise money for charities such as Save the Children, Help for Heroes, MacMillan Cancer Research and the Salvation 
Army. Employees also took part in Group activities such as supporting the Royal British Legion’s annual London Poppy 
Day, J.P. Morgan’s “Corporate Challenge for German Sport Aid and Handicapped Youth” in Frankfurt, PAL’s Girl Sport Day 
in New York and the Oxfam Trail Walker in Hong Kong.
The Group actively contributes to employment in the community by launching the careers of graduates in the IT sector, 
investing time and money into training them and placing them with large companies. The Group also offers paid summer 
internships and work experience placements to allow individuals to gain business experience and develop their skill 
set, which will in turn allow them to improve their chances of future employment. University students are offered an 
eight-week placement, during which they work on live business projects, providing them with exposure to a commercial 
environment during their studies. The scheme aims to match students to business areas within the Group which are 
relevant to their studies, to ensure the interns gain targeted experience.
Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
26
Environmental efforts
Throughout the Group the responsibility to minimise detrimental impact to the environment is recognised. Consequently 
the principles of sustainable development are embraced and measures to ensure that reduced energy consumption and 
increased recycling have been implemented where possible. Waste paper and ink cartridges are currently recycled, whilst 
computers which are no longer in use are donated to charities. We encourage communication via electronic documents 
and other initiatives in order to save paper. Going forward, opportunities for the Group to improve its environmental 
footprint and save energy will be considered. Through our continued efforts to understand impacts on the environment 
from our operations, we work to not only reduce negative impacts but create new opportunities for greater efficiencies.
 
CO
2
 emissions
The Company complies with the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions reporting requirements of The Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. The Company reports all material GHG emissions, wherever possible 
using tonnes of CO
2
-equivalent (“CO
2
e tonnes”) as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are attributable to human 
activity, as defined in Section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008(a). Emissions data is reported for the Group’s worldwide 
operations. The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with DEFRA’s “Environmental Reporting 
Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance (June 2013)”.
Year ended 31 December 2014
Fuel type CO
2
e tonnes
Scope 2
1
453
Scope 3
2
294
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: CO
2
e tonnes
CO
2
e tonnes per £ million of revenue 6.1
1
 Scope 2 being electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Group’s own use. 
2
 Scope 3 being emissions which the Group is not directly responsible for, but arise as a by-product of its operation.
The Group has utilised the exemption from including prior year comparative figures, this being the first year of disclosure. 
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 10 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2015 
Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
27
The principles 
of sustainable 
development are 
embraced and 
measures to ensure 
that reduced energy 
consumption and
increased recycling 
have been 
implemented Creating and  
inspiring exciting 
careers that shape  
our digital future
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
28 FDM HAS OVER
1,500 
MOUNTIES ON SITE
THE COMBINED NORTH 
AMERICAN OPERATIONS 
REVENUE INCREASED BY 
49% TO £22.1 MILLION 
FOR THE YEAR TO  
31 DECEMBER 2014 
AWARD-WINNING 
COMPANY
FDM IS MADE UP OF AROUND 
60 
NATIONALITIES WORKING TOGETHER
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
29 FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
30
Board of Directors
Ivan Martin
Non-Executive Chairman 
Ivan has been Chairman of FDM Group since 2006 and is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. There have been no changes to Ivan’s commitments during the year, he continues 
as Chairman of Red (a specialist SAP-based IT services business). He has no other significant 
commitments. He was a member of Misys plc’s Board and headed their banking software 
division until 2005. Previously, Ivan worked at ACT Group plc, and spent his earlier career 
at US multinational computer business, Unisys. Between 2007 and 2013, he was Executive 
Chairman of Sesame Bankhall Group. Ivan was also a Non-Executive Director of Avelo, a 
financial services technology business. 
Roderick (Rod) Flavell  
Chief Executive Officer
Rod is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Group. He is responsible for the 
overall strategic development and expansion of the Group and, over the past 25 years, 
has been instrumental in developing the Group into one of the UK’s leading IT graduate 
employers. He is also a member of the Nomination Committee. Rod is a firm supporter 
of improving diversity in the IT workplace, with clear results being achieved by the Group 
through the FDM Women in IT and ex-Forces and Veteran Career Transition initiatives. 
 
Andrew (Andy) Brown   
Group Commercial Director
Andy has spent over 20 years with FDM and progressed through the Group’s sales team to 
become Global Sales Director in 2007. Andy now fulfills the role of Group Commercial Director 
and oversees the expansion of the Group with a key focus on the sales, HR, recruitment and 
business support functions. Andy’s strategic focus is around developing new service offerings in 
line with client demands, as well as increasing the number of applicants for the Group’s graduate 
programme, which are both key areas to the success and growth of the Group. Andy has also 
played a key role in the launch and success of the UK Ex-Forces Programme, which has launched 
the commercial careers of over 50 ex-Forces personnel since its inception in January 2014. 
 
Sheila Flavell  
Chief Operating Officer
Sheila was appointed Chief Operating Officer of FDM Group in 2008 and has over 25 years’ 
experience in both the public and private IT sectors. Sheila’s experience and knowledge of the 
Group has been key in driving the Group’s global expansion programme. She is fully committed 
to driving gender diversity in the workplace and spearheads FDM’s global Women in IT 
campaign. Her dedication to achieving gender balance has been recognised through various 
awards including “Corporate Leader of the Year” at the Cisco everywoman in Technology 
Awards 2012, “100 Women to Watch” (FTSE Report) by Cranfield School of Management and 
“Top 30 Most Inspirational Female Entrepreneurs in the City 2014” by Brummell Magazine.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
31
Michael (Mike) McLaren  
Chief Financial Officer 
Mike was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Group in 2011. Prior to joining the Group, 
Mike served as Chief Operating Officer and Group Finance Director of Timeweave plc (formerly 
Alphameric plc) and has served on a number of other Boards for both private and listed 
companies. Mike is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Peter Whiting   
Non-Executive Director 
Peter was appointed in June 2014 as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination 
Committee. Peter has over 20 years of experience as an investment analyst, specialising in the 
software and IT services sector. Peter joined UBS in 2000 and led the UK small and mid-cap  
research team. Between 2007 and 2011 he was Chief Operating Officer of UBS European 
Equity Research. One of his responsibilities during this period was the oversight of the graduate 
recruitment, training and development programmes both for the Research business and the 
Equities operation as a whole. Peter is also a Director of Microgen plc and MBA Polymers Inc. 
Jonathan Brooks  
Non-Executive Director
Jonathan was appointed in June 2014 as Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a  member of 
the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. Jonathan is a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of IP Group plc, which commercialises 
intellectual property from leading UK universities and AVEVA Group plc, a leading provider of 
engineering design software. Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief Financial Officer of ARM 
Holdings plc where he was a key member of the team that developed ARM Holdings to be a 
leader in its sector.
Robin Taylor
Non-Executive Director
Robin was appointed in June 2014 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee, the 
Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee. A member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland, Robin joined Phoenix IT Group plc as a Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee in November 2013, bringing many years’ experience as 
a plc Director. Robin is currently a Non-Executive Director of EMIS Group plc and Fusionex 
International plc and was formerly Chief Financial Officer of main market publicly listed 
companies Intec Telecom Systems plc (“Intec”), ITNET plc and JBA Holdings plc. Prior to 
that, Robin held a variety of financial and general management roles in both Europe and 
North America.
Board of Directors FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
32
Corporate Governance Report
Introduction   
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited) admitted its ordinary shares of nominal value of £0.01 each 
to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014  
(the “Admission”). The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority  
(the “Rules”), including the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) published by the Financial Reporting Council 
(the “FRC”) (a revised version of which was published in September 2014), have only therefore applied to the Group since 
Admission. In the months leading up to Admission, the Board implemented a number of measures to ensure compliance 
with the Rules and the Code including, in particular, provisions relating to the composition and remit of the Board and 
its principal committees. On Admission, the Board committed itself to high standards of corporate governance and to 
maintaining a sound framework for the control and management of the Group. 
Statement of Compliance
The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Code, for which the Board 
is accountable to shareholders. Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in 
connection with Directors’ remuneration, in the Remuneration Committee Report from page 50.
From Admission, the Company has complied with the Code other than for the following exceptions:
• The Board did not immediately upon Admission adopt a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. 
The management structure of the Group was such that key decisions could only be made at Board level and as such the 
adoption of a formal written schedule was not seen as an immediate priority. It was also considered that the experience 
and input of the new independent Non-Executive Directors would be useful in assisting to develop the detailed content of 
the schedule. Following a period of consultation at Board level, a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the 
decision of the Board was adopted on 27 January 2015;
• The Code recommends that, on appointment, the chairman of a company with a Premium Listing on the Official List 
should meet the independence criteria set out in the Code. Ivan Martin joined the Board of Directors of FDM in July 2006 
and became Non-Executive Chairman of the Group on 1 October 2006. Ivan does not meet the independence criteria 
set out in the Code because he has been a shareholder in the last three years and an employee in the last five years. 
The Board considered at the time of Admission and continues to believe, that in order to ensure maximum continuity 
and stability in the Company’s transition from a privately owned company to a listed company, Ivan should remain as  
Non-Executive Chairman of the Group because of the vast experience and knowledge that he brings to the FDM team. 
The Board will keep the situation under review;
• No Nomination Committee was established at Admission. There were no personnel changes to the key executive 
directorships in the Company on Admission and three new independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed at 
Admission leading to the Company’s view that the Board was settled and that there was unlikely to be a requirement in 
the period shortly following Admission to make significant appointments so as to require a Nomination Committee at  
that stage. 
 The Board has kept the position under regular review and subsequently resolved to set up a Nomination Committee to 
ensure compliance with this aspect of the Code. The Nomination Committee was established on 27 January 2015. Further 
information about the role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee is set out in the Nomination Committee 
Report on page 44; and
• This year the Board did not undertake an evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual 
Directors. In the relatively short period of time from the Admission to the Company’s year end of 31 December 2014 the 
Board focused on consolidating its governance processes and procedures following Admission and it was impractical and 
too early for the Board to undertake an evaluation of its own performance. It is intended that the Board will undertake an 
internal performance evaluation in the next six months, when the Board will be at an appropriate stage in its development 
to enable such a review to be effective.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
33
The FDM Board
Composition of the Board
Board composition is routinely reviewed to ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the 
Company’s Board remains appropriate to the business. The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors and four  
Non-Executive Directors. Their biographies, including information on prior experience are set out on pages 30 and 31. 
The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors enable them to debate and constructively 
challenge management in relation to the strategy and performance of the Group.
The Group’s policy is to hire the best candidates for all positions at all levels throughout the business, irrespective of 
gender, including candidates at Board level.
With Sheila Flavell as Chief Operating Officer, 12.5% of the current Board is female (representing 25% of executives). 
Further information and statistics on gender diversity can be found within our Corporate Responsibility Report on page 
23. The Board has not set any specific aspirations in respect of gender diversity at Board level and supports fully the 
Code principles in respect of diversity. The Board recognises the benefits of diversity, of which gender is one aspect, and 
it will continue to ensure that this is taken into account when considering any particular appointment, whilst ensuring 
appointments are made on merit and ability to enhance the performance of the business.
Board changes during the year
On 16 June 2014 Richard Swann and John Hartz tendered their resignation. On Admission, Non-Executive Directors  
Peter Whiting, Jonathan Brooks and Robin Taylor were appointed on 20 June 2014. 
Re-election of Directors at the 2015 Annual General Meeting
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the principles of the Code, all Directors of the Company will 
retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). Thereafter, Directors will retire, 
and may offer themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years, in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association and the Code. Having received advice from the Nomination Committee, the Board is satisfied that 
each Director is qualified for re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and commitment to the Board.
 
Leadership
The role of the FDM Board
The Board meets regularly to review strategic, operational and financial matters. It approves the interim and preliminary 
and annual financial statements, the annual financial plan, significant contracts and capital investment in addition to 
reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems and business risks faced by the Group. Where appropriate, it 
has delegated authority to committees of Directors. Information is supplied to the Board in advance of meetings and the 
Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on the matters being discussed. 
The Board also provides leadership of the Company and direction for management, ensuring that the necessary financial 
and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and it keeps management’s performance under 
review with regard to achieving those objectives.
The Board closely monitors management and its delivery of a sustainable and profitable business, ensuring it continues 
to operate within the appropriate risk-reward culture. The Board has established a core set of values, which it adheres to 
and promotes throughout the Group. These values, which underpin our skills, behaviours and way of doing business, are: 
our commitment to our people; motivation to be the best; performance; energy; and integrity. These values have helped 
to further the entrepreneurial culture within FDM, which has been critical to our continued success without promoting 
excessive risk-taking.
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
34
The Board  
committed itself to 
high standards of 
corporate governance 
and to maintaining 
a sound framework 
for the control and 
management of  
the Group FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
35
Role of the Non-Executive Directors
FDM’s Non-Executive Directors have a broad and complementary mix of business skills, knowledge and experience 
acquired across sectors and geographies. This allows them to provide strong, independent and external perspectives to 
Board discussions, which complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors. In turn, this leads to a diversity 
of views being aired at Board meetings, robust and constructive debate and optimal decision-making. At the same time, it 
also reduces the likelihood of any one perspective prevailing unduly. A key role performed by the Non-Executive Directors 
is the scrutiny of executive management in meeting agreed objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance. 
They also ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management are both rigorous and appropriate for the 
needs of the business. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, up to a maximum of three years, and reappointment is 
not automatic. The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, including the expected time 
commitment, are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. 
On Admission, the Board considered the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors. In doing so, it concluded 
that, with the exception of Ivan Martin as detailed in the Statement of Compliance, each Non-Executive Director was 
independent of management and free from any relationship that could interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. The Board will regularly review the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors. 
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between them; the 
responsibility for this separation of duties rests formally with the Board.
As Chairman, Ivan Martin presides over the Board and is responsible for its leadership and overall effectiveness. In doing 
so, he fosters and helps to maintain an effective working relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As Chief Executive, Rod Flavell has responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company’s business and the 
implementation and delivery of the Board’s strategy.
This separation of roles enhances the independent oversight of executive management by the Board and more closely 
aligns the Board with shareholders. It also means that no one individual within the Company has unfettered powers of 
decision making.
Senior Independent Director
The Board appointed Peter Whiting to the position of Senior Independent Director on Admission. In performing this 
role Peter provides shareholders with someone to whom they can turn if ever they have concerns which they cannot 
address through the normal channels, for example with the Chairman or Executive Directors. Peter is also available as an 
intermediary between his fellow Directors and the Chairman.
Whilst there were no requests from Directors or shareholders for access to the Senior Independent Director during the 
year, the role serves as an important check and balance in FDM’s governance process. In the fulfilment of his role Peter 
ensures he maintains a thorough understanding of the views of the Company’s shareholders. 
Corporate Governance Report Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
36
Board committees
The Board is supported in its activities by the following principal committees: Audit Committee; Nomination Committee; 
and Remuneration Committee. The performance of each Board Committee will be reviewed on an annual basis. As noted 
in the Statement of Compliance formal performance evaluations were not undertaken during 2014, the first year of the 
committees’ establishment.
Each of the Committees have written terms of reference which clearly specify their authority and duties and those terms 
of reference can be found on the Group’s website.
In addition to the relevant Committee members and the Company Secretary, external advisors and, on occasion, other 
Directors and members of the Senior Management team attend Committee meetings, but only at the invitation of the 
Chairmen of the Committees.
Audit Committee
Jonathan Brooks, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, is Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
which also comprises Peter Whiting and Robin Taylor. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the financial 
statements and the accounting principles and practice underlying them, liaising with the external auditors and reviewing 
the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee’s Report appears on page 46.
Remuneration Committee
Peter Whiting is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, which also comprises Jonathan Brooks and Robin Taylor. The 
Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to general remuneration 
policy, and for determining, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report appears on page 50.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was formed on 27 January 2015. Ivan Martin is Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
which also comprises Peter Whiting, Jonathan Brooks, Robin Taylor and Rod Flavell.
The Nomination Committee will meet at least annually and otherwise as required. It will lead the process for, and make 
recommendations in relation to appointments to the Board, monitor Board performance and succession planning.
The Board and the Board Committees recognise the importance of promoting all aspects of diversity throughout the 
Group. When making an appointment to the Board, candidates are chosen against criteria, specified by the Nomination 
Committee, such as balance of skills, business experience, independence, qualifications, knowledge, diversity and other 
factors relevant to the Board operating effectively. Successful candidates are chosen on merit against these criteria, 
regardless of race, gender or religious beliefs.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
37
Board effectiveness
Matters reserved for the Board 
A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Board’s decision and approval is available on our website,  
www.fdmgroup.com. These relate to matters of governance and include the following:
• Approving financial results and other financial, corporate and governance matters;
• Approving material contracts;
• Approving Group strategy;
• Approving appointments to the Board;
• Determining dividend policy, as well as approving and recommending dividends as appropriate;
• Reviewing material litigation;
• Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the nature and extent of significant risks identified by 
management and associated mitigation strategies; and
• Approving the annual budget.
The schedule of reserved matters was put in place on 27 January 2015. Board decisions are usually by consensus at Board 
meetings. On occasion, decisions may be taken by a majority of Board members. In the case of an equality of votes, FDM’s 
Articles of Association provide the Chairman with a casting vote. Where appropriate, the Board has delegated authority 
to committees of Directors.
 
Board commitment 
The Board has established a policy permitting its Executive Directors to hold only one external Non-Executive Directorship, 
subject to any possible conflict of interest.
This ensures that the Executive Directors retain sufficient time for and focus on the Company’s business, whilst allowing 
them to gain external board exposure as part of their leadership development. Executive Directors are permitted to 
retain any fees paid for such services.
Details of remuneration received by each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 are shown in 
the single figure table presented on page 64 of the Remuneration Committee Report.
While the Company does not have a similar policy for Non-Executive Directors, their key external commitments 
are reviewed each year to ensure that they too have sufficient time commitment for the fulfilment of their Board 
responsibilities. Key external commitments of the Board are included within their biographies on pages 30 and 31.
The Board considered the commitments of the Chairman and is satisfied that he has sufficient time to devote to his Board 
responsibilities with FDM. However, the Board will keep his commitment under review as a matter of good governance.
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
38
Information and support
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and agrees a forward calendar of matters that it wishes to discuss 
at each meeting. Standing items, including operational, functional and financial reviews and Committee updates are 
considered at each scheduled Board meeting, with unplanned items such as commercial or property-related decisions 
being considered as and when required. The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, plans the agenda for 
each Board meeting and ensures that supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely and of sufficient quality to enable the 
Board to discharge its duties.
All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises them on Board and governance matters. As well 
as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary.
 
Board attendance
Details of the number of meetings of the Board (including sub-committees at which only certain Directors are required to 
attend) and committees and individual attendances by Directors are set out in the table below.
 
1
 Maximum possible attendance based upon date of appointment/resignation. 
2
 Ivan Martin attended the first meeting of the Audit Committee and the first three meetings of the Remuneration Committee (at the invitation of the 
 Chairmen of those Committees) to give the Committees the benefit of his knowledge of the business of the Group during the Non-E xecutive Directors’ 
 initial period of familiarisation with the Group.  
3
 Not applicable, not a member of the Committee and not required to attend.
The table above details attendance at scheduled meetings. In addition there was one Extraordinary General Meeting held 
in connection with Admission at which all the relevant Directors attended. 
Board meetings  
attended/maximum
1
 
 Audit Committee)  
 attended/maximum
1
)
Remuneration Committee) 
attended/maximum
1
 )
Number of meetings 
held in 2014
11 3) 4)
Ivan Martin
2
11/11 1) 3)
Rod Flavell 11/11 N/A
3
N/A
3
Sheila Flavell 11/11 N/A
3
N/A
3
Mike McLaren 11/11 3/3) N/A
3
Andy Brown 11/11 N/A
3
N/A
3
Peter Whiting  
(appointed 20 June 2014)
5/5 2/2) 3/3)
Jonathan Brooks 
(appointed 20 June 2014)
5/5 2/2) 3/3)
Robin Taylor  
(appointed 20 June 2014)
5/5 2/2) 3/3)
John Hartz 
(resigned 16 June 2014)
5/6 N/A
3
1/1)
Richard Swann 
(resigned 16 June 2014)
6/6 1/1) 1/1)
Governance Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
39
The Group has 
robust recruitment 
procedures 
which ensure the 
employment of 
appropriately  
skilled personnel  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
40
Board induction and development 
On appointment, each Director takes part in a tailored induction programme which is designed to give him or her an 
understanding of the Company’s business, governance and stakeholders.
Elements of the programme include:
• Senior management briefings to provide a business overview, update on current trading conditions and strategic 
commercial issues;
• Meetings with the Company’s key advisors and major shareholders, where necessary;
• Head office site visit;
• Provision of a legal and regulatory memorandum and briefing on the duties of Directors of listed companies;
• Details of the Group corporate structure, Board and Committee structures and arrangements and key policies and 
procedures; and
• The latest statutory financial reports and management accounts.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that Directors are provided with updates on changes 
in the legal and regulatory environment in which the Company operates. These are incorporated into the annual agenda 
of the Board’s activities along with wider business and industry updates; the Chairman also keeps under review the 
individual training needs of Board members. The Company’s principal external advisors provide updates to the Board, 
at least annually, on the latest developments in their respective fields, and relevant update sessions are included in the 
Board’s strategy meetings. The Company Secretary presents corporate governance reports to the Board as appropriate, 
together with any relevant technical guidance. In this way, each Director keeps their skills and knowledge current so they 
remain competent in fulfilling their role both on the Board and on any Committee of which they are a member. 
 
Board evaluation 
Given the short period of time between the date of Admission and the Group’s financial year end, and the fact that three 
new independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed on Admission, the Board did not consider it appropriate or 
necessary to undertake an evaluation of its own performance or that of its Committees or individual Directors during 
the year. It is the intention that, at an appropriate stage in the development of the Board, a formal and rigorous annual 
evaluation of both its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors will be carried out.
It is expected that the effectiveness of the Board will be carried out through an internal Board evaluation process which 
will be facilitated by the Chairman and will cover subject matter in order to assess effectiveness, such as the conduct 
of Board meetings, risk, strategy, Board composition and member performance, and wider stakeholder engagement. 
Committee effectiveness will be assessed separately.
Prior to the Admission the requirements of the Group were considered with regard to the recruitment of the new  
Non-Executive Directors. The recruitment process undertaken included evaluation of the candidates’ experience and 
prior performance in order to assess their suitability as Non-Executive Directors for the Board. 
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
41
Conflicts of interest
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by Directors of any interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the 
Company’s interests and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises, in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest only non-interested Directors (i.e. those that 
have no interest in the matter under consideration) will be able to take the relevant decision. In taking such a decision the 
Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company and 
may impose such limits or conditions as they think fit. The Board has reviewed the procedures in place and considers that 
they operate effectively. There were no actual or potential conflicts of interest which were required to be authorised by 
the Board during the year under review or to the date of this report.
 
Relations with shareholders
In order to maintain dialogue with institutional shareholders, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer meet 
with the Company’s major shareholders following interim and final results announcements, or otherwise as appropriate. 
The Company uses the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders and welcomes their participation. 
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and all Directors are expected to be available 
to take questions. 
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 10.30 am on 30 April 2015 at 5 New Street Square, London EC4A 3TW, is enclosed 
with this report. In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Notice of AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the meeting and the notice for general meetings will be sent to shareholders at least 14 days before 
each general meeting and shall include details of the resolutions and the explanatory notes thereto. 
The Board proposes separate resolutions for each issue and proxy forms allow shareholders who are unable to attend 
the AGM (or general meeting, as applicable) to vote for or against or to withhold their vote on each resolution. As soon 
as practical following the conclusion of the AGM (or general meeting, as applicable), the proxy votes cast, including 
details of votes withheld, shall be announced to the London Stock Exchange via Regulatory News Service and published 
on our website.
The Group’s website (www.fdmgroup.com) is the primary source of information on the Group. 
 
Internal control
The Group maintains an ongoing process in respect of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the 
Group’s assets and to facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Group.
These processes enable the Group to respond appropriately, and in a timely fashion, to significant business, operational, 
financial, compliance and other risks, which may otherwise prevent the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. 
Systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
42
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group recognises that it operates in a competitive market that can be affected by factors and events outside its 
control. Details of the principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Group are set out in the tables on pages 17 to 
20. The Group is committed to mitigating risks arising wherever possible and accepts that internal controls, rigorously 
applied and monitored, are an essential tool in achieving this objective.
 
Control environment and procedures
The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the 
Board, the Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management processes.
The Board considers that effective risk management is critical to achieving the Group’s strategic objectives and the  
long term sustainable growth of the business. The Audit Committee consolidates and assesses the risk information,  
and summarises the key risks in the form of the Group Risk Register which is reviewed on a half yearly basis.
The key elements of Group internal control, which have been effective during the year ending 31 December 2014 and up 
to the date of approval of these financial statements, are set out below:
• The Board meets on a regular basis and is responsible for the operational strategy, reviewing operating results, 
identification and mitigation of risks and communication and application of the Group’s policies and procedures. 
Where appropriate, matters are reported to the Board;
• The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities and accountabilities;
• Regular reports to the Board on key developments, financial performance against budget and operational issues in  
the business;
• Operational and financial controls and procedures which include authorisation limits for expenditure and capital 
expenditure, sales contracts and signing authorities, IT application controls, organisation structure, segregation 
of duties and reviews by management. In addition to these controls is a set of group-wide policies on procedures 
addressing non-quantifiable risks. These include the Group’s code of conduct and ethics, anti-corruption policy and 
other arrangements;
• Centralised finance and support functions;
• An annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored and approved by the Board;
• Regular meetings between the Executive Board and Senior Management team; and
• Increased scope external audits on specific areas of the business.
 
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
43
Process for preparing consolidated financial statements
The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(“IFRSs”). The key features of these internal control and risk management systems are:
• The Group’s consolidation is subject to various levels of review by the Group Finance function;
• The draft Consolidated Financial Statements are reviewed by an appropriate individual independent from those who 
were responsible for preparing the financial statements; 
• The Audit Committee and the Board review the Consolidated Financial Statements;
• The Group’s consolidation is subject to external audit; and
• The financial statements of all Group companies are subject to external audit, where required by local legislation.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of this framework of 
internal control from the date of Admission to 31 December 2014, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, 
in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, published by the Financial 
Reporting Council.
The Corporate Governance Report was approved by the Board on 10 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Ivan Martin 
Chairman
10 March 2015
Jonathan Brooks 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
10 March 2015
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
44
Nomination Committee Report
Membership and meetings
As explained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 32, no Nomination Committee was established at Admission. 
The Board has kept the position under regular review and subsequently resolved to set up a Nomination Committee on  
27 January 2015 to ensure compliance with this aspect of the Code.
The Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Ivan Martin, also comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors Peter 
Whiting, Jonathan Brooks, Robin Taylor and Rod Flavell. The Committee has not met yet, but will meet formally at least once 
a year and at such other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
 
Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee
The role of the Nomination Committee is to lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the 
Board. The main responsibilities of the Committee are summarised below:
• Regularly review the structure, size and composition (including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) of the 
Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes;
• Give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, 
taking  
into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise needed on the Board 
in the future; 
• To identify, nominate and recommend for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when 
they arise;
• Review the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board; and 
• Review annually the time required from Non-Executive Directors. Performance evaluation should be used to assess 
whether the Non-Executive Directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Before any recommendations are made, detailed job descriptions setting out the skills and experience required to 
fulfil roles will be prepared for appointments including the time commitment expected. To attract suitable candidates, 
advertisements or appropriate external advice will be taken and candidates will be considered on merit and against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, taking care that 
appointees have enough time available to devote to the position.
A full copy of the Committee’s Terms of Reference is available from the Group’s website at www.fdmgroup.com.
 
Appointment process
As no new Director has been appointed since Admission and the Committee does not believe there is a gap to fill, no 
appointment process has been formalised. However, the Committee expects that the process will involve identifying gaps 
in the Board’s composition, then reviewing the skills of potential candidates. When renewing current appointments, all 
Directors except the individual in question are able to vote at the general meeting. 
 
Board diversity
The Nomination Committee will ensure that, together, the Directors have a balance of skills, qualifications and experience 
which are relevant to the Company. The Committee will support the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes 
in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but does not consider it appropriate or in the interest of the 
Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender or nationality on the Board.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
45
Succession planning
The new Board is settled and the Committee does not expect it will need to consider succession planning in the immediate 
future, however the Committee will keep the situation under review.
 
Non-Executive Director appointment process
When an appointment of a Non-Executive Director is made, a formal letter will be sent setting out expectations regarding 
time commitment, committee membership and involvement outside Board meetings. Chosen candidates will be required 
to disclose to the Board any other significant commitments before the appointment can be ratified.
 
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board and shall be for a period of up to three years, which may be 
extended for further periods of up to three years, provided the Director still meets the criteria for membership of the 
Committee. Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, will be subject to rigorous review when they continue to 
serve on the Board for any term beyond six years.
Ivan Martin 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
10 March 2015
Nomination Committee Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
46
Audit Committee Report
The present Audit Committee was established on 20 June 2014 at the time of 
Admission and has met three times since, in July and November of 2014 and 
March 2015. The intention is for there to be four set meetings a year and we 
established a recurring annual agenda for this at our first meeting. 
 
Composition
The current Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. As Chairman of the Committee, I am deemed to have recent and relevant 
financial experience. I am a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants and I have held a number of senior financial positions in my career. 
The Committee also comprises Peter Whiting and Robin Taylor. Robin Taylor is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in Scotland, and like myself has prior experience as a Finance Director in a public company environment. 
Peter Whiting, Senior Independent Director provides the Committee with independent opinion. All members were 
appointed to the Audit Committee on 20 June 2014.
 
Information flows to the Audit Committee
The Group’s Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and Financial Controller are invited to attend all the Audit Committee 
meetings, as well as the Group’s external auditors. In addition, senior members of the management team can be invited 
to make presentations such as the Committee’s agenda necessitates. In November 2014 the Non-Executive Directors 
had a video conference with the head of the North American business, who is based in New York, to improve our 
understanding of some of the issues of control environment in North America. We had a similar face to face meeting with 
the head of the Company’s German subsidiary to acquaint ourselves with that division.
The Committee has met with the external auditors on a number of occasions since Admission, including meeting away 
from the Company’s offices.
 
Overview of the year’s activities
In addition to its prescribed responsibilities, much of the emphasis of the Committee in its first nine months has been on 
developing its understanding of the business as well as ensuring that any opportunities for improvements in control which 
were highlighted during the pre-Admission due diligence process had been appropriately addressed. In association with 
the Senior Management Team, a comprehensive induction programme was developed which involved the Committee 
meeting all of the various heads of business over a series of meetings. In addition, in November, the Committee travelled 
to Brighton to visit the central finance function for the Group. The Group’s accounting for all territories takes place at this 
location. This helped improve our understanding of potential control risks as well as providing the opportunity to meet 
all key finance personnel.
With respect to issues which emerged from the pre-Admission due diligence, these were reviewed at the November 
meeting of the Committee. They included the adoption of a revised whistle-blowing policy and an updated anti-bribery 
policy, as well as ensuring that some other administrative issues such as the statutory books for subsidiaries and certain 
intercompany agreements were all up to date. Apart from these additional tasks, the Committee undertook its normal 
duties, including reviewing the interim and full year consolidated Group financial statements, assessing the effectiveness 
of the auditors as well as their fees, establishing the annual review of risk for the first time as a public company and 
reviewing the assessment of the Group’s business as a going concern.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
47
Significant financial reporting items
The Committee considers reports from the Chief Financial Officer and reports from the outcome of the half-year review 
and annual audit. The Committee considered the following significant estimates and judgements in approving the 2014 
financial statements:
• Revenue recognition: the timing and element of judgement included in recognition of Group revenue. This area has 
been considered through review of the Group’s accounting policies and discussions with management covering the 
internal controls in place. The Committee concluded that while there is a low level of judgement involved, this remains 
an area of potential risk. 
• The allocation of Admission transaction costs: the allocation of costs between the Group and selling shareholders. 
The Committee reviewed the exceptional items related to Admission as presented by management and are satisfied 
with the allocation and presentation.
• Financial statement preparation and disclosures: management will be preparing financial statements as a listed group 
for the first time. The Committee is satisfied with the processes in place for the preparation of the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures 
have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Audit Committee Terms of Reference
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and reviews all proposed 
announcements to be made by the Group giving consideration to any significant financial reporting judgements contained 
in them. The Audit Committee also assists the Board to discharge its duty to ensure that the Annual Report, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced, understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. The Committee also considers the effectiveness of the financial reporting and 
internal controls, compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, accounting policies and any recommendations 
from the Group’s external auditor regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of internal resources.
A full copy of the Committee’s Terms of Reference is available from the Group’s website at www.fdmgroup.com.
 
Internal control and risk management
The key elements of the Group’s internal control framework and procedures are set out on pages 41 and 42, while the 
principal risks faced by the Group are set out on pages 17 to 20. The Committee will consider these issues annually giving 
consideration to whether certain areas should be looked at more closely through specific control reviews, identifying 
where improvements to internal controls could be made and agreeing plans to deliver the necessary enhancements. The 
principal risks highlighted in the first formal review of risk included international expansion, the management of peaks and 
troughs in the supply of Mounties and customer demand for their services, and IT systems generally, which will require 
further investment to cope with the growth in the Group in both absolute numbers of staff and additional territories.
There is a separate whistle-blowing policy which was updated in November and has been communicated to all employees. 
The policy provides information on how employees should make a disclosure. The Committee is satisfied that the policy 
provides an adequate basis for employees to make confidential representations.
 
External audit
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the Company’s external 
auditors to the Board. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) are the Group’s current external auditor and were originally 
appointed in 2013. The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit and given the recent change in audit 
firm, the Group is not required under the CMA order or EU Regulation to conduct a tender before the year ending  
31 December 2023.
Audit Committee Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
48
Governance
Appointment, independence and objectivity
The Audit Committee monitors the fees paid to the external auditors for non-audit work and delegates the authority 
for approval of such work to the Chief Financial Officer where the level of fees involved is insignificant. During the year 
the external auditors did perform some non-audit services which mainly consisted of acting as reporting accountant for 
the Group for the Admission, together with some other statutory filing work. The Group receives a formal statement of 
independence and objectivity from the external auditors each year and obtains quotes in a competitive tender for non-audit 
work performed. An analysis of non-audit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements. Any significant non-audit 
work will, in future years, require prior approval from the Audit Committee. The Group does engage other independent 
accounting firms to perform tax consulting work and other assignments to further ensure the independence and objectivity 
of the auditor is not compromised.
Audit partners are rotated every five years. The current audit partner, Alan Kinnear, will step down from his role at the end 
of the 2014 financial year audit since he is retiring from PwC. He will be replaced by a new audit partner, Jaskamal Sarai. 
 
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process at its meeting in March. The audit was substantive 
in approach with the vast majority of sales transactions covered as part of the audit and this gave the Committee 
confidence as to the overall quality of the audit. In addition, the Committee had requested that the external auditors 
conduct some additional extended external audit work during the year in the form of a physical visit to the New York 
office and, through discussions with overseas Senior Management, to assess other compliance issues and this provided 
us with further assurance.
Internal audit
The Group does not maintain a separate internal audit function. This is in part due to the close control of operations 
exercised by the Executive Directors as well as the centralisation of all of the accounting and financial activities in one 
centre in Brighton. The key elements of the Group’s internal control framework and procedures are set out on pages 41 
and 42, while the principal risks faced by the Group are set out on pages 17 to 20. 
The Audit Committee will consider the internal control framework and procedures annually giving consideration to 
whether certain areas should be looked at more closely through specific reviews, identifying where improvements to 
controls could be made and agreeing plans to deliver the necessary enhancements. In doing so, the Audit Committee will 
formally consider the Group’s requirement for an internal audit function.
The Committee considers it more useful to use the external auditors to conduct increased scope external audit procedures 
in overseas offices, for example carrying out a full scope audit of the US business and an audit of revenue in Germany 
and Switzerland for the year ending 31 December 2014. However the Audit Committee does review the need to have its 
own internal audit function each year.
Jonathan Brooks 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
10 March 2015
Audit Committee Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
49
The Audit 
Committee will 
consider the 
internal control 
framework and 
procedures 
annually FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
50
Remuneration Report
Statement from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first Directors’ Remuneration 
Report since the Company’s shares were admitted to trading on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014. In accordance with the requirements of the 
applicable remuneration reporting regulations this Report is presented in two sections:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy – this sets out our forward-looking 
remuneration policy for Directors and will be subject to a binding vote at 
the 2015 Annual General Meeting; and
• The Annual Report on Remuneration – this provides details of 
the amounts earned by Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 and how the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy will be operated for the year commencing 1 January 2015. This will be subject to an 
advisory vote at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The Committee comprises Peter Whiting (Chairman), Jonathan Brooks and Robin Taylor. Ivan Martin attended the first 
meetings of the Committee in order to facilitate a smooth handover from the previous Board. The Executive Directors 
were invited to the first meeting to outline the compensation culture within the organisation prior to Admission.  
No Directors are involved in or present for discussions about their own remuneration. 
The role of the Committee is to:
• Determine the Company’s remuneration policy for all Directors and the Chairman;
• Review and determine remuneration and incentive packages for each of the Company’s Executive Directors;
• Operate the Company’s incentive plans in line with the policy report and various plan rules; and
• Ensure it is kept abreast on issues affecting all aspects of executive remuneration.
The full Remuneration Committee terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website.
 
Our approach to remuneration
During the year the Remuneration Committee has formulated a new policy in respect of Executive Directors’ remuneration 
to ensure that following Admission the policy is aligned with best practice while continuing to enable the Company to 
attract the right calibre of Executives and promote the long term success of the Company. Our reward strategy is to 
provide competitive remuneration packages that promote the long term success of the Company. Stretching performance 
conditions, which are rigorously applied, are attached to relevant performance-related elements. I maintain contact as 
required with the principal shareholders of the Company about remuneration to ensure that interests are aligned so far 
as is practicable.
 
Remuneration decisions in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014
In June 2014 we established the Company’s 2014 Performance Share Plan (“the PSP”) which incentivises Executive Directors 
and other Senior Management to deliver challenging three-year Earnings per Share (“EPS”) growth targets. No awards were 
made in 2014 and the first awards, in respect of the three year period from 2015-2017, are expected to be made in 2015.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
51
As referred to in the prospectus prepared prior to Admission our Executive Directors’ salaries were increased with effect 
from Admission to £350,000 in the case of Rod Flavell, £260,000 in the case of Andy Brown and Sheila Flavell and £220,000 
in the case of Mike McLaren. These increases were made to bring the salaries of the Executive Directors up to a level 
within a market competitive range.
There are two components to the annual bonus earned by the Executive Directors during the year. The first part, for the 
period prior to Admission, was determined by the former Board, and represents an on-target payment reflecting the 
strong performance up to Admission. The second part was determined by the Committee based on financial performance 
relative to full-year targets, specifically earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 
(“EBITDA”) and revenue. This EBITDA target was set by the Board pre-Admission, no subsequent adjustment was made. 
The proposed payment of 50% of salary results from an on-target outcome.
 
Remuneration in the year commencing 1 January 2015
The year commencing 1 January 2015 will be the Company’s first full year as a listed company and in which remuneration 
arrangements for the Executive Directors will be determined in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set 
out on pages 52 to 63 on the basis described in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 63 to 69.
The Directors’ salaries and fees applying with effect from Admission will continue to apply for the year commencing on 
1 January 2015.
We always welcome feedback from shareholders on any aspect of our Directors’ remuneration and will continue to 
monitor our remuneration policy to ensure it remains aligned to the business strategy and delivery of shareholder value.
 
Peter Whiting 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
10 March 2015
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
52
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This part of the Report sets out the Company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which, subject to shareholder approval at 
the 2015 Annual General Meeting, shall take binding effect from the close of that meeting.
Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary
Core element of fixed 
remuneration to reflect the 
individual’s role and experience 
as part of a broadly market 
competitive total remuneration 
package, to enable the Group 
to recruit and maintain the 
required skills and expertise to 
enable it to achieve its strategy.
Executive salaries were 
reviewed in June 2014 in 
connection with the IPO, and 
the salary levels fixed at that 
point will continue in place until 
the end of 2015. Thereafter 
executive salaries will normally 
be reviewed annually.
Salary levels are determined 
taking into account a range of 
factors, which may include (but 
are not limited to):
• Underlying Company 
performance;
• The size and scope of the 
Executive Director’s role and 
responsibilities;
• The Executive Director’s skill, 
experience and performance;
• Salary levels for equivalent 
roles at other listed 
companies of a similar size 
and/or complexity to the 
Group; and
• Pay and conditions elsewhere 
in the Group.
Whilst there is no maximum 
salary level, salary increases 
will normally be in line with the 
wider workforce in percentage 
of salary terms.
Salary increases above this 
level may be awarded in 
certain circumstances, such as:
• Where an Executive Director 
has been promoted or has 
had a change in scope or 
responsibility;
• To reflect an individual’s 
development or performance 
in role (e.g. a newly appointed 
Executive Director being 
moved to align with the 
market over time);
• Where there has been a 
change in market practice; or
• Where there has been a 
change in the size and/or 
complexity of the business.
Such increases may be 
implemented over such time 
period as the Committee 
deems appropriate.
Not applicable.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
53
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Benefits
To provide benefits as part of 
a broadly market competitive 
total remuneration package.
Executive Directors receive 
benefits set at an appropriate 
level taking into account total 
remuneration, market practice, 
the benefits provided to other 
employees in the Group and 
individual circumstances. 
Benefits provided currently 
include car allowances and 
private health insurance.
Other benefits may be 
provided based on individual 
circumstances. These 
may include, for example, 
relocation expenses and 
expatriate allowances.
Whilst the Committee has not 
set an absolute maximum on 
the level of benefits Executive 
Directors may receive, the 
value of benefits is set at a 
level which the Committee 
considers to be appropriately 
positioned taking into 
account relevant market 
levels based on the nature 
and location of the role, the 
level of benefits provided for 
other employees in the Group 
and individual circumstances.
Not applicable.
Retirement benefits
To provide an appropriate 
level of retirement benefit (or 
cash allowance equivalent) 
as part of a broadly 
market competitive total 
remuneration package.
Executive Directors are 
eligible to participate in 
the Company’s defined 
contribution scheme.
In appropriate circumstances, 
such as where contributions 
exceed the annual or lifetime 
allowance, Executive Directors 
may take a taxable cash 
supplement instead  
of contributions to a  
pension plan.
Maximum Company pension 
contribution (or cash allowance 
equivalent) for existing 
Executive Directors of 3%  
of salary.
However, the Committee may 
permit a higher Company 
pension contribution (or cash 
allowance equivalent) for any 
new Executive Director.
Not applicable.
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
54
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) 
 
Executive Directors (continued) 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Annual bonus
Rewards Executive Directors 
for achieving financial, 
strategic and/or individual 
targets in the relevant year, 
to provide an incentive for 
the Group’s employees to 
achieve goals aligned with 
the Group’s strategy.
Performance measures 
and targets are reviewed 
annually and pay-out levels are 
determined by the Committee 
after the year end based on 
performance against  
the targets.
The Committee has discretion 
to amend the pay-out should 
any formulaic outcome not 
reflect the Committee’s 
assessment of overall  
business performance.
Recovery
For up to three years following 
the payment of an annual 
bonus award, the Committee 
may require the repayment 
of some or the entire award 
in the event of fraud or 
dishonesty leading to a 
material misstatement  
of financial results.
Maximum bonus opportunity 
for Executive Directors is 100% 
of base salary.
Performance measures 
and targets are set annually 
reflecting the Company’s 
strategy and aligned with key 
financial, strategic and/or 
individual targets.
Pay-out of up to 20% of 
maximum for threshold 
performance (the minimum 
level of performance resulting 
in any payment), 50% of 
maximum for on-target 
performance and full pay-out 
for stretch performance with 
straight-line vesting in between 
each of the points.
At least 80% of the bonus 
will be assessed against 
key financial performance 
measures which may include 
revenue, pre-tax profit or other 
key financial performance 
metrics of the Company. The 
balance of the bonus may be 
assessed against non-financial 
strategic measures and/or 
individual performance.
See page 67 for details of the 
annual bonus performance 
measures for 2015.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
55
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
To incentivise Executive 
Directors over the longer term, 
and to deliver performance-
related pay, with a clear line  
of sight for Executives 
and direct alignment with 
shareholders’ interests.
Long term incentive awards 
are granted under the PSP 
which was approved on 16 
June 2014. Awards under the 
PSP will typically be granted 
as a conditional award or the 
grant of a nil-cost option, in 
either case vesting subject to 
the achievement of specified 
performance conditions, over a 
period of at least three years.
Awards may be settled in cash 
(or granted as a cash award 
over a notional number of 
shares) at the discretion of  
the Committee.
Awards under the PSP may 
be granted on the basis that 
the number of shares shall be 
increased to reflect dividends 
paid over the vesting period, 
or the Committee may make a 
cash payment equal to those 
dividends on release of  
the shares.
The usual maximum award 
level under the PSP in respect 
of any financial year for 
Executive Directors is awards 
over shares with a value of 
100% of salary.
In certain circumstances, the 
Committee may grant awards 
under the PSP in respect of 
any financial year for Executive 
Directors up to a maximum of 
200% of salary.
The Committee may at its 
discretion structure awards 
as Approved Performance 
Share Plan (“APSP”) awards 
to enable the participant and 
the Company to benefit from 
HMRC approved option tax 
treatment in respect of part of 
the award, without increasing 
the pre-tax value delivered to 
participants. APSP awards may 
be structured as an approved 
option up to the HMRC limit 
(currently £30,000) and a PSP 
share award, with the share 
award scaled back to take 
account of any gain made  
on exercise of the  
approved option.
Performance will be 
assessed against challenging 
performance targets.
Performance will be based 
typically on financial measures 
including, but not limited to, 
absolute EPS growth.
Awards (other than, in 
accordance with the 
requirements of the applicable 
tax legislation, any approved 
option granted as part of 
an APSP award) will also be 
subject to a financial underpin 
such that PSP awards will 
only vest if the Committee 
is satisfied with the overall 
performance of the Company.
Performance measures (and 
their weighting where there  
is more than one measure)  
are reviewed annually to  
maintain appropriateness  
and relevance.
For threshold performance 
25% of the award will vest, 
rising to 100% of the award 
vesting for maximum 
performance with straight-line 
vesting in between. Below 
threshold performance, the 
award will not vest.
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
56
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) 
 
Executive Directors (continued)
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) (continued)
The Committee may at its discretion structure 
awards as APSP awards comprising both an 
HMRC tax-favoured option granted under the 
Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”) and a 
PSP award. APSP awards enable an Executive 
Director and the Company to benefit from 
HMRC tax-favoured option treatment in 
respect of part of the award without increasing 
the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
APSP awards would be structured as a tax-
favoured option and a PSP award, with the 
vesting of the PSP award scaled back to take 
account of any gain made on exercise of the 
tax-favoured option.
Other than to enable the grant of APSP 
awards, the Company will not grant awards to 
Executive Directors under the CSOP.
Recovery
At the discretion of the Committee, unvested 
awards could be reduced, cancelled or 
have further conditions imposed in certain 
circumstances including (but not limited to):
• A material misstatement of the Company’s 
audited financial results;
• A material failure of risk management by 
the Company or any subsidiary company 
within the Group; or
• A material miscalculation of any 
performance measure.
For up to three years following the vesting of 
an award, the Committee may require the 
repayment of some or the entire award in 
the event of fraud or dishonesty leading to a 
material misstatement of financial results.
Where a tax-favoured option 
is granted as part of an APSP 
award, the same performance 
conditions will apply to the tax-
favoured option as apply to the 
PSP award.
No awards were made in 2014. 
See page 50 for details of the 
PSP awards expected to be 
granted in 2015.
 
 
Save as set out in the table above in relation to the annual bonus and PSP, there are no provisions for the recovery or withholding of any element of remuneration.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
57
Remuneration Report
Information supporting the policy table
Explanation of performance measures chosen
Performance measures for the annual bonus and PSP awards which reflect the Company’s strategy are selected. 
Stretching performance targets are set each year by the Committee taking into account a number of different factors.
The annual bonus can be assessed against financial, strategic and/or individual targets determined by the Committee 
with at least 80% subject to key financial targets. The Committee considers financial measures like profit before tax and 
revenue to be important performance metrics because they encourage behaviours that facilitate profitable growth and 
the successful future strategic development of the business.
Long term performance measures are chosen by the Committee to provide a robust and transparent basis on which to 
measure the Company’s performance over the longer term and to provide alignment with the business strategy. They 
are selected to be aligned with the interests of shareholders and to drive business performance. Currently absolute EPS 
growth is considered to be a key measure of success as it encapsulates the outcomes of many of the strategic drivers of 
the business, and helps align management incentives with growth in shareholder value.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust or set different performance measures or targets where it considers it 
appropriate to do so (for example, to reflect a change in strategy, a material acquisition and/or a divestment of a Group 
business or a change in prevailing market conditions) and to assess performance on a fair and consistent basis from year 
to year.
 
Operation of the PSP
The PSP will be operated by the Committee in accordance with the plan rules, including the ability to adjust the number 
of shares subject to awards in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue 
or other event which may, in the opinion of the Committee, affect the current or future value of shares.
 
Early vesting of awards
Awards may vest earlier than anticipated in “good leaver” circumstances, as determined by the Committee at their 
discretion. In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event (such as a demerger, 
delisting, special dividend or other event which may affect the value of an award), awards under the PSP may vest in 
accordance with the rules of the PSP. The Committee shall determine the extent of vesting taking into account the extent 
to which the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Such vesting would ordinarily be on a time pro rata basis 
although the Committee has discretion not to apply time prorating. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
58
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
Non-Executive Directors
Purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Other items
To enable the 
Company to attract 
and retain Non-
Executive Directors of 
the required calibre 
by offering market 
competitive rates.
The Chairman is paid a basic Chairman fee and additional fees 
for chairmanship of any Board committees.
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee and additional fees 
for chairmanship of any Board committees.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors 
are determined by the Board.
Fees are based on the time commitment and contribution 
expected for the role and the level of fees paid to Non-
Executive Directors serving on the board of similar-sized UK 
listed companies.
Overall fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain within 
the limit of £1.0 million per annum set by the Company’s 
Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible 
to be reimbursed travel and subsistence 
costs incurred in the performance of  
their duties.
The Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in the Company’s annual 
bonus, share plans or pension schemes  
or other benefit in kind arrangements.
 
Illustration of application of remuneration policy
The following charts set out for each Executive Director an illustration of the application for 2015 of the remuneration 
policy set out above. The charts show the split of remuneration between fixed pay (base salary, taxable benefits and 
pension), annual bonus and PSP on the basis of minimum remuneration, remuneration receivable for performance 
in line with the Company’s expectations and maximum remuneration (not allowing for any share price appreciation). 
Governance 100%
£666,600
£391,600
£226,600
58%
14%
34%
28%
33%
33%
100%
£1,060,500
£623,000
£360,500
Minimum
performance
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
Maximum
performance
Performance 
in line with 
expectation
58%
14%
34%
28%
33%
33%
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
Minimum
performance
Total remuneration (£)
Total remuneration (£)
Total remuneration (£)
Total remuneration (£)
Maximum
performance
Performance 
in line with 
expectation
100%
£787,800
£462,800
£267,800
Minimum
performance
Maximum
performance
Performance 
in line with 
expectation
58%
14%
34%
28%
33%
33%
100%
£787,800
£462,800
£267,800
58%
14%
34%
28%
33%
33%
Minimum
performance
Maximum
performance
Performance 
in line with 
expectation
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
59
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
Andy Brown 
Group Commercial Director
Remuneration Report
Sheila Flavell 
Chief Operating Officer
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
Base salary, 
benefits and 
pension
Annual
Bonus
PSP
Base salary, 
benefits and 
pension
Annual
Bonus
PSP
Base salary, 
benefits and 
pension
Annual
Bonus
PSP
Base salary, 
benefits and 
pension
Annual
Bonus
PSP FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
60
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) 
 
Illustration of application of remuneration policy (continued) 
 
In illustrating the potential reward, the following assumptions have been made. 
 
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP
Minimum performance 
Performance below plan 
approved by Board
Fixed elements of 
remuneration only:
• Base salary;
• Taxable benefits as disclosed 
in the single figure table on 
page 64 for the year ended  
31 December 2014; and
• Pension assuming an 
employer contribution of 
3% of salary, reflecting the 
intention to retain this  
limit for existing  
Executive Directors.
No bonus. No PSP vesting.
Performance in line  
with expectation 
Performance in line with  
plan approved by Board
50% of maximum awarded 
(equivalent to 50% of salary).
25% of usual maximum award 
vesting (equivalent to 25% of 
salary).
Maximum performance 
Plan approved by  
Board exceeded
100% of maximum awarded 
(equivalent to 100% salary).
100% of usual maximum 
award vesting (equivalent to 
100% of salary).
Policy for the remuneration of employees more generally
The Group aims to provide a remuneration package that is competitive in an employee’s country of employment 
and which is appropriate to promote the long term success of the Group. The Group intends to apply this policy 
fairly and consistently and does not intend to pay more than is necessary to attract and motivate staff. In respect of 
Executive Directors, a greater proportion of the remuneration package is “at risk” and determined by reference to 
performance conditions.
 
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will seek to align the remuneration package with the above policy.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee may include other elements of pay which 
it considers are appropriate and necessary to recruit and retain the individual. However, this discretion is capped and is 
subject to the limits referred to below:
• Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Director being appointed.  
This may include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and/or 
responsibilities, subject to good performance, where it is considered appropriate;
• Benefits will only be provided in line with the above policy;
• Pension contributions may be made above the limit for the existing Executive Directors (3% of salary) up to a 
maximum of 15%. This flexibility recognises that future Executive Directors will not have the same significant 
levels of shareholding in the Company as the existing Executive Directors and additional pension benefits may 
be needed in order to offer a competitive remuneration package;
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
61
Remuneration Report
• The Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments (for example a “guaranteed sign-on 
bonus” or “golden hello”);
• Other elements may be included in the following circumstances:
• An interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short term basis;
• If exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive 
function on a short term basis;
• If an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus 
or long term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance. 
Subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below, the quantum in respect of the months 
employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair 
and appropriate basis; or
• If the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Company’s policy to 
allow reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments. Any such payments will be at the discretion 
of the Committee;
• The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period of the annual 
bonus or PSP, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration. The 
rationale of any such alterations will be clearly explained in the next Directors’ Remuneration Report; and
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted (excluding buyout awards as referred to 
below) is 300% of salary, in line with the Policy table set out on pages 52 to 56.
The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to buyout remuneration arrangements 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any 
performance conditions attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested 
or been paid. The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards or payments on a comparable basis to 
the remuneration arrangements forfeited. Any such payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of 
variable remuneration referred to above. Buyout awards will ordinarily be granted on the basis that they are subject to 
forfeiture or “clawback” in the event of departure within 12 months of joining the Company, although the Committee 
will retain discretion not to apply forfeiture or clawback in appropriate circumstances.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share plans. 
If necessary and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall 
be allowed to continue in accordance with their terms.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the policy in place at the 
time of appointment.
Letters of appointment for the Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal 
business hours at the Company’s registered office.
 
Service contracts
Each Executive Director has a service contract with the Company which may be terminated by the Company or Director 
by giving 12 months’ notice. This notice period was reviewed and considered appropriate to the Company at the time of 
Admission. Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment with the Company which may be terminated by the 
Company or Director by giving three months’ notice. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
62
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) 
 
Service Contracts (continued)
Details of the Directors’ service contracts (or letter of appointment in the case of a Non-Executive Director), notice periods 
and, where applicable, expiry dates, are set out below:
Name Commencement Expiry Notice period
Rod Flavell 20 June 2014 - 12 months
Sheila Flavell 20 June 2014 - 12 months
Mike McLaren 20 June 2014 - 12 months
Andy Brown 20 June 2014 - 12 months
Ivan Martin 20 June 2014 20 June 2015 3 months
Peter Whiting 20 June 2014 20 June 2015 3 months
Jonathan Brooks 20 June 2014 20 June 2015 3 months
Robin Taylor 20 June 2014 20 June 2015 3 months
 
Payments for loss of office
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are set out below:
 
Payment in lieu of notice
Each Executive Director’s service contract contains provision for payment in lieu of notice at the discretion of the Company. 
Such payment would consist of basic salary plus benefits only for the notice period (or the balance of the notice period if 
relevant) together with any accrued but untaken holiday pay entitlement.
 
Annual bonus
This will be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and the decision as to whether or not to award a 
bonus in full or in part will be dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the individual’s departure 
and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question. Any bonus amounts paid will be prorated for 
time in service during the bonus period and will be paid at the usual time (although the Committee retains discretion to 
pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances).
 
PSP
The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of the PSP. Unvested 
awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment. However, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, 
determine that on cessation of employment an award that has not yet vested will vest at cessation or at the normal vesting 
date. In either case, the extent of vesting will be determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the 
performance condition is satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time elapsed from the 
date of grant to the date of cessation. Awards may then be exercised during such period as the Committee determines. 
If an award has vested prior to an individual’s cessation of employment, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, 
allow the award to be exercised for such period as the Committee determines.
 
Other payments
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of outplacement and legal fees. Where a buy-out 
award is made, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award. The Committee reserves the right to
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
63
Remuneration Report
make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation 
(or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in 
connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment.
 
Existing contractual arrangements
The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in 
this report:
• Where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect;
• Where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company 
and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of  
the Company; 
• To satisfy contractual commitments; or
• Under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, “payments” includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an 
award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when considering the 
Directors’ remuneration. When considering base salary increases, the Committee reviews overall levels of base pay 
increases offered to other employees. Employees are not actively consulted on Directors’ remuneration. Employee share 
ownership is fundamental to the Company’s culture and is reflected in the wide participation in our share incentive plans.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on Directors’ 
remuneration. At the AGM the Committee intends to consult with shareholders in respect of any significant changes to 
the Director remuneration arrangements.
Annual Report on Remuneration
Audited section
 
The audited section of this report includes the following:  
• Single figure table; 
• Annual bonus for 2014; 
• Long term incentive awards vesting in 2014; 
• Total pension entitlements; 
• Payments made to former Directors during the year; 
• Payments made for loss of office made during the year; and 
• Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
64
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Single figure table
The table below details the total remuneration receivable by each Director for the financial years ended 31 December 
2013 and 31 December 2014. Where necessary, further explanation of the values provided are included in the notes to 
the table or the additional information that follows it in relation to the annual bonus and long term incentives vesting in 
respect of performance in 2014.
Salary  
and fees 
£000
Benefits
£000 
Annual 
bonus
£000 
Long term 
incentives
£000 
Pension
£000 
Other
1
£000 
Total 
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors
Rod Flavell 2014 
2013
335.9
322.0
19.3
18.7
153.0
162.9
-
-
10.0
6.0
140.3
38.1
658.5
547.7
Sheila Flavell 2014 
2013
244.3
228.0
20.8
18.8
111.6
115.3
-
-
-
-
140.3
38.1
517.0
400.2
Mike McLaren 2014 
2013
200.6
180.0
13.1
13.0
92.0
91.1
-
-
6.3
4.6
-
-
312.0
288.7
Andy Brown 2014 
2013
244.3
228.0
13.2
13.1
111.6
115.3
-
-
8.1
6.4
140.3
38.1
517.5
400.9
Non-Executive Directors
Ivan Martin 2014 
2013
108.4
96.0
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
108.4
96.0
Peter Whiting 2014 
2013
23.7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
23.7
-
Jonathan 
Brooks
2014 
2013
23.7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
23.7
-
Robin Taylor 2014 
2013
21.1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
21.1
-
John Hartz
2
2014 
2013
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Richard Swann
2
2014 
2013
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
1 
Comprises equity shares awarded during the period.
2 
John Hartz and Richard Swann received no remuneration paid from the Group, Inflexion Private Equity LLP charged fees of £42,500 in 2014 (2013: £90,300)    
 for their services as Directors.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
65
Remuneration Report
The figures in the single figure table on the previous page are derived from the following: 
Salary and fees The total salaries and fees paid in respect of that year. John Hartz and Richard Swann served as 
Directors until 16 June 2014 and the Company was billed in respect of their fees and expenses 
by Inflexion Private Equity LLP.
Benefits Value of benefits received in the year, comprising private medical insurance and car allowance.
Annual bonus The cash value of the bonuses earned in respect of the financial year, both pre-and-post 
Admission. A description of both bonus plans in place during the year is provided below.
Long term incentives 
(“LTI”)
The value of LTI awards that vested in respect of that year (£nil for 2014 and 2013). 
Pension The pension figure represents the cash value of Company pension contributions paid on behalf 
of the Executive Directors as part of the Company’s defined contribution scheme.
Other The value of the Joint Share Ownership Plan (“JSOP”) shares that were transferred on Admission. 
These shares are valued at a price of £2.87, the offer price at Admission.
During the Admission process, some of the Directors received payment from the selling shareholders for services provided 
in relation to realising their investment. As these services were not made for the benefit of or paid by the Company, the 
remuneration is not disclosed in this report, nor is it shown as an expense in the Group’s financial statements.
Annual bonus for 2014
The annual bonus for the Executive Directors for 2014 reflects two separate payments, one in relation to the period  
pre-Admission and one for post-Admission. 
Performance target 
for the year set at 
Admission Actual performance
Post-Admission 
bonus as a 
percentage of post-
Admission salary
Pre-Admission bonus 
as percentage of pre-
Admission salary
EBITDA £25.5m £25.5m 50% 40%
Revenue £122.0m £123.3m
 
The pre-Admission bonus performance measures were based on delivery of EBITDA targets. The levels of bonus payable 
for achieving these targets were determined by the previous Board. It is not considered appropriate to disclose these 
targets in the Annual Report as they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
The post-Admission bonus covers the period between Admission and the year-end. In evaluating performance during 
this period the new Remuneration Committee, that was formed at the time of the IPO, concluded it was appropriate to 
include metrics different from those used previously, notably Revenue in addition to EBITDA. The EBITDA and Revenue 
targets, set at Admission, are shown in the table above. Based on the actual performance achieved the Committee 
determined that a bonus payment of 50% of salary, prorated for the period post-Admission be awarded. 
 
Long term incentive awards vesting in 2014 
No long term incentives vested during the year.
 
Total pension entitlements
Executive Directors participate in a defined contribution scheme to which the Company contributes an amount equivalent 
to 3% of salary.  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
66
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) 
 
Payments made to former Directors during the year
No payments were made in the year to any former Director of the Company.
Payments for loss of office made during the year
No payments for loss of office were made in the year to any Director of the Company.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests
To further increase alignment between executives and shareholders, the Committee has introduced a shareholding 
guideline of 100% of salary, which applied from the date of Admission. The current Executive Directors have 
shareholdings significantly in excess of this guideline, reflecting the Company’s historic culture of share ownership and 
entrepreneurialism. Newly appointed Executive Directors will normally be given three years to reach the shareholding 
guideline, subject to their individual circumstances.
The interests of each Director of the Company as at 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Ordinary shares as at
31 December 2014
Number
Ordinary shares 
value as at
31 December 2014 
£000
1
Value  
(x base salary
2
)
Ordinary shares as at 
10 March 2015
Number
Executive Directors
Rod Flavell 8,201,255 28,704 82.0 8,201,255
Sheila Flavell 8,201,254 28,704 110.4 8,201,254
Mike McLaren 499,295 1,748 7.9 499,295
Andy Brown 4,540,801 15,893 61.1 4,540,801
Non-Executive Directors
Ivan Martin - - - -
Jonathan Brooks 13,937 49 1.1 13,937
Robin Taylor 5,226 18 0.5 5,226
Peter Whiting 10,453 37 0.8 10,453
 
1
 Calculated based on the closing share price of £3.50 on 31 December 2014. 
2
 Calculated on base salary at 31 December 2014. 
Note: No comparative figures are disclosed for the year ending 31 December 2013 as shareholding guidelines did not apply prior to Admission.
There have been no changes in the Directors’ holdings in the share capital of the Company between 31 December 2014 
and the date the accounts were approved.
There were no outstanding share awards for any of the Directors as of 31 December 2014 nor did any of the Directors 
hold any share awards (vested or otherwise) during the year under review with the exception of the JSOP awards noted 
above. Notwithstanding this the Remuneration Committee intends to grant awards under the PSP to Executive Directors 
following the announcement of results for the financial year ending 31 December 2014. More details about these 
proposed awards are set out in the “Implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for 2015” section on page 67.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
67
Remuneration Report
Implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for 2015
 
Base salary and fees
The base salaries for the Executive Directors and the fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in connection 
with the Admission and the current salaries and fees, which will continue to apply for 2015, are set out below: 
Base annual salary from 20 June 2014
Rod Flavell (Chief Executive Officer) £350,000
Sheila Flavell (Chief Operating Officer) £260,000
Mike McLaren (Chief Financial Officer) £220,000
Andy Brown (Group Commercial Director) £260,000
Annual fee from 20 June 2014
Ivan Martin (Chairman) £120,000
Non-Executive Director £40,000
Committee Chairman £5,000
Annual bonus for 2015
In line with the policy set out on pages 52 to 63 the maximum annual bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors for 
2015 is 100% of salary. 80% of the bonus opportunity will be dependent on Group pre-tax profit, with the remaining 
20% based on Mountie revenue. The Committee considers that the details of these targets are commercially sensitive; 
however they will be disclosed in next year’s report.
Long Term Incentives for 2015
The Long Term Incentive plan was approved by shareholders on 16 June 2014 and the first awards are expected to be 
granted to Executive Directors in March 2015 in line with the policy set out on pages 52 to 63.
The awards will vest based on compound annual EPS growth in line with the following schedule:
1
 Adjusted at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
The extent to which the awards vest (other than, in accordance with the requirements of the applicable tax legislation, 
any approved option granted as part of an “Approved Performance Share Plan award” as referred to in the table on page 
55 to 56) will be subject to the Committee’s assessment of the overall financial performance of the Company during 
the performance period. Final levels of vesting may be reduced should the Committee feel that these do not reflect the 
performance of the Company.
Compound annual growth in EPS
1
 
 
Up to 10% p.a. 
Greater than 10% p.a. but less than 17% p.a.
17% p.a. or greater 
Percentage of the award that will vest
25%
Determined on a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
100% FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
68
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Performance graph and historical Chief Executive remuneration outcomes
The graph below shows the Company’s Total Shareholder Return “TSR” performance since the date of listing compared 
to the FTSE Small Cap Index which has been chosen as the Company is a member of that index.
The table below details the total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting (as a percentage of the maximum 
opportunity) for the Chief Executive for the last five years. Note that for 2014 this is the remuneration received for the  
whole of 2014 and so is not directly comparable to the TSR performance chart above, which is for the period from  
20 June 2014.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Total remuneration (£000) 455.2 639.2 686.2 547.7 658.5
Annual bonus as a % of  
maximum opportunity
100% 100% 100% 68% 55%
Change in CEO remuneration in relation to the wider workforce
The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO and the wider workforce 
between 2013 and 2014. For these purposes, the wider workforce includes all UK employees but excludes employees 
based overseas, in order to exclude the effects of fluctuating exchange rates.
Percentage change CEO Wider workforce
Salary 4.3% 2.9%
Taxable benefits 0% 0%
Annual bonus 8.6% 5.5%
114
112
110
108
106
104
102
100
98
June 
2014
Admission
% (20 
June 2014
 = 100%)
FDM Share Price FTSE Small Cap
July 
2014
August 
2014
September 
2014
October 
2014
November 
2014
December 
2014
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
69
Remuneration Report
Spend on pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and the overall expenditure on pay (as a whole across the 
organisation). As the Company only listed in June 2014, no distributions have yet been made to shareholders.
Year ended 
31 December 2013
Year ended 
31 December 2014
Percentage 
change
Dividends (£000) 19,900 - (100%)
Overall expenditure  
on pay (£000)
48,279 58,900 22%
Advisors
During the financial year, the Committee received independent advice from Deloitte LLP, in relation to the Committee’s 
consideration of matters relating to Directors’ Remuneration. Deloitte LLP were appointed following a formal tender 
process, fees for advice provided to the Remuneration Committee during the year were £7,650. Fees were charged on a 
time and disbursements basis.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates under its code of conduct in 
its dealing with the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee continued to review the appointment of 
Deloitte LLP and is satisfied that all advice received was objective and independent.
 
Approval
This Report was approved by the Board on 10 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Peter Whiting 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
10 March 2015 FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
70
Directors’ Report
The Directors present the Directors’ Report and Consolidated Financial Statements of FDM Group (Holdings) plc (for the 
year ended 31 December 2014). On 20 June 2014 the Company registered as a public limited company and changed its 
name from Astra Topco Limited to FDM Group (Holdings) plc.
 
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of professional services focusing principally on information technology. 
The Strategic Report on pages 3 to 26 provides a review of the Group’s performance during the financial period as well 
as its future prospects.
 
Results and dividends
The Group reported a profit after tax for the year of £13.5 million (2013: £14.7 million). Results for the year are set out in 
the Consolidated Income Statement on page 81.
It is the Directors’ intention to declare an interim dividend of 7.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of the period from 
Admission on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 2014. The proposed interim dividend is subject to final Board approval at a 
meeting of the Board to be held on 30 April 2015.
 
Directors
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements unless 
otherwise stated, were:
 Ivan Martin    (Non-Executive Chairman) 
 Roderick (Rod) Flavell   (Chief Executive Officer) 
 Sheila Flavell    (Chief Operating Officer) 
 Andrew (Andy) Brown   (Group Commercial Director) 
 Michael (Mike) McLaren   (Chief Financial Officer) 
 John Hartz    (Non-Executive Director) – resigned 16 June 2014 
 Richard Swann    (Non-Executive Director) – resigned 16 June 2014 
 Jonathan Brooks    (Non-Executive Director) – appointed 20 June 2014 
 Peter Whiting    (Non-Executive Director) – appointed 20 June 2014 
 Robin Taylor    (Non-Executive Director) – appointed 20 June 2014
The biographies of the currently serving Directors are provided on pages 30 and 31 of this report.
Director share interests 
 
Details of the interests of Directors in the shares of the Company are provided on page 66 of this report.
 
Director long term inventive schemes
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, details of the Group’s long term incentive schemes are disclosed in the Remuneration 
Report starting on page 50. All other information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R is not applicable for the period 
under review.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
71
Directors’ Report
Directors’ indemnity and liability insurance
As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party 
indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in force throughout the 
last financial year and is currently in force. The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
 
Risk management objectives and policies
The Group through its operations is exposed to a number of risks. Details of the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies are set out in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The principal risks that the Group 
faces are set out on pages 17 to 20 of the Strategic Report.
 
Corporate Governance
For details of the Corporate Governance report see pages 32 to 43. The Corporate Social Responsibility report is on pages 
23 to 26, and also includes information about the Group’s employment policies and greenhouse gas emissions.
Branches outside the UK
The Group continues to operate one branch in France. 
Substantial shareholders
As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority, of the following notifiable interests (whether directly or indirectly held) in 3% or more of 
its voting rights:
        As at 31 December 2014        As at 27 February 2015
Substantial shareholder
Direct/Indirect 
interest
Number of 
shares
% of issued 
share capital 
Number of 
shares
% of issued 
share capital
Threadneedle Investments Indirect 10,922,745 10.2 10,935,869 10.2
Roderick Flavell Direct 8,201,255 7.6 8,201,255 7.6
Sheila Flavell Direct 8,201,254 7.6 8,201,254 7.6
BlackRock Investment Management Direct 4,762,432 4.4 4,782,786 4.5
Andrew Brown Direct 4,540,801 4.2 4,540,801 4.2
Majedie Asset Management Direct 4,442,337 4.1 4,581,178 4.3
AXA Investment Managers Direct 4,401,339 4.1 4,576,339 4.3
River & Mercantile Asset Management Direct 4,105,662 3.8 3,965,662 3.7
Standard Life Investments Direct 3,604,390 3.4 3,604,390 3.4
Artemis Investment Management Direct 3,598,771 3.4 3,598,771 3.4
 
Political donations
The Group made no political donations in the year (2013: £nil).  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
72
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are summarised in the Strategic Report. The principal risks, uncertainties and risk management processes are 
also described in the Strategic Report. 
The Group’s continued and forecast global growth, positive operating cash flow and liquidity position, together with its 
distinctive business model and infrastructure, enables the Group to manage its business risks successfully. The Group’s 
forecasts and projections show that it will continue to operate with adequate cash resources and within the current working 
capital facilities. The Group passed all bank covenants tested in the year and forecasts that all covenants will be passed for a 
period of at least 12 months from the date of signing this Annual Report.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis for preparing the financial statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of the Group’s compliance with legislation relating to Greenhouse gases are set out on page 26 in the Corporate 
and Social Responsibility Report.
Employee information
Information on the Group’s employee policies is included on page 23 in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report.
Capital structure
The Group’s capital structure is shown in note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Related party transactions
The Group’s related party transactions are shown in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Past balance sheet events
There have been no significant events to report since the date of the balance sheet.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have 
prepared the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union “EU”. 
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
73
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and roles are listed on pages 30 and 31 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
• The Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; 
• The Strategic Report (including the Strategy Review, Our Markets, Principal Risks, the Financial Review and the Corporate 
and Social Responsibility Report) and the Directors’ Report include a fair review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces;
• So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited).
Signed on behalf of the Board,
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2015
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
10 March 2015
Directors’ Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
74
Report on the financial statements
 
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• FDM Group (Holdings) plc’s Group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the 
Group’s profit and the Group’s and the parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 
What we have audited
FDM Group (Holdings) plc’s financial statements comprise:
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2014;
• the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
• the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other  
explanatory information.
 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts (“the Annual Report”), 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
75
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
• Revenue recognition
• Allocation of Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) transaction costs
• Presentation and disclosure of the financial statements
• We performed full scope audits of the UK and US trading reporting units
• We audited the revenue, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalent  
balances of the Germany and Switzerland trading reporting units
• We also performed full scope audits of the centralised functions in the UK, comprising  
the parent and intermediate holding companies
• Overall Group materiality: £1.2m which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for  
exceptional items
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial 
statements. In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant 
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in 
all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there 
was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Our audit approach
 
Overview
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
76
Financial Statements
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
 
Revenue recognition 
Refer to note 3.3 (b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates, and page 47 (‘Significant financial 
reporting items’) within the Audit Committee Report.
At the year-end, revenue is accrued for work performed that 
has not yet been invoiced. Within this estimate, revenue is 
recognised for contracts either where services have been 
provided but customer purchase orders have not yet been 
finalised, or where consultants’ timesheets have not yet been 
approved by the customer or received by the Group. 
There is some judgement in the recognition of this revenue, in 
order to estimate the amount of work performed by consultants 
before receipt of approved timesheets, which could lead to 
an under or overstatement of revenue and profit, whether 
intentionally or in error.
We gained an understanding from management of the key 
assumptions underpinning the year end sales adjustments and 
compared these assumptions with the prior year. Based upon 
a sample of timesheets received post year end we evaluated 
management’s estimate, which we found to be appropriate.
We substantively tested the year end adjustments by comparing 
to customer-approved timesheets received subsequent to the 
year end, in order to identify any inappropriate recognition of 
revenue, noting no material exceptions in our testing.
We inspected the largest framework contracts with customers 
and concluded that revenue was being recognised in line with 
agreed terms.
We also considered the disclosures made in note 3.3 (b) to the 
financial statements and determined that they are consistent 
with the requirements of accounting standards.
Allocation of Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) transaction costs
Refer to the Annual Report on Remuneration (page 65) for the 
Directors’ disclosures regarding the costs paid by the selling 
shareholders, and page 47 (‘Significant financial reporting items’) 
within the Audit Committee Report.
The parent company incurred £4.9m of costs in completing the 
IPO in June 2014.
The costs incurred were allocated between the parent company 
and the selling shareholders. The amount of cost incurred 
by the parent company is judgemental and was the result 
of negotiations between the parties which could have led to 
erroneous or intentional misstatement.
We obtained supporting documentation for the IPO transaction 
costs, such as contracts and invoices, to check these have been 
appropriately recorded in the financial statements, noting no 
material exceptions in our testing.
We examined the contracts and minutes of meetings where the 
allocation of the costs was agreed between the parent company 
and the selling shareholders.
We challenged management as to the nature of the services paid 
for by the selling shareholders to check these were not provided 
to the parent company, and therefore should not be recognised 
as an expense of the parent company. We determined that the 
services paid for by the selling shareholders related solely to the 
realisation of their investment and did not provide a material 
benefit to the parent company.
Having tested the appropriateness of the split in expenditure, 
we then checked the amounts in the financial statements were 
appropriately included and disclosed.
We checked the direct costs of issuing the new shares (allocated 
against share premium) to supporting documentation and 
were satisfied that the appropriate accounting treatment and 
disclosures were applied.
Report on the financial statements (continued)
 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources 
and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address 
these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make 
on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
77
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
 
Presentation and disclosure of the financial statements 
Refer to the Corporate Governance Report (page 43) for the 
Directors’ disclosures of the related controls and processes, and 
page 47 (‘Significant financial reporting items’) within the Audit 
Committee Report.
Management has prepared financial statements as a premium 
listed Group for the first time this year, which brings with it more 
stringent disclosure requirements under a variety of complex 
frameworks, such as the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, including 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
 
We obtained an understanding of the processes and controls 
management implemented in advance of the year end and 
discussed the requirements for the financial statements early in 
our audit process. We gained an understanding of management’s 
execution strategy, which included input from a number of 
external advisors. These processes reduced the risk around 
omitted, incorrect or incomplete disclosures.
We obtained an early draft of the financial statements and 
checked that they complied with the required frameworks, such 
as the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Conduct Authority, including the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
The Group provided final draft financial statements on a timely 
basis, having performed their internal review procedures. We 
performed our review processes to check the presentation of the 
financial statements was accurate, appropriate and complete.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting 
processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured by division, with significant reporting units in the UK and US, and further smaller reporting 
units in locations across Europe, Asia and South Africa. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 14 
reporting units, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and centralised functions.
The accounting and financial management for all reporting units is controlled from the UK, so we as the Group 
engagement team performed all audit work. To support our work on the US reporting unit, we visited the 
Group’s offices in New York.
We determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units to be able to conclude 
that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole. Accordingly, we determined that audits of the complete financial information were 
required for four reporting units, comprising the UK and US trading reporting units and the parent and 
intermediate holding companies. We discussed our audit scope with Management and the Audit Committee, 
and agreed with them a greater level of coverage over revenue balances in some of the overseas territories. 
We therefore expanded our audit scope to include revenue, trade and other receivables and cash and cash 
equivalents in the next two largest reporting units, being Germany and Switzerland.
As a result audit procedures were conducted on reporting units representing 97% of the Group’s profit before 
tax adjusted for exceptional items and 89% of revenue, with a further 7% coverage of revenue obtained through 
our work on Germany and Switzerland.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for 
materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the 
financial statements as a whole.  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
78
Report on the financial statements (continued)
 
 
 
 
Materiality (continued)
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £1.2m (2013: £1.15m).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items.
Rationale for  
benchmark applied
For the year ended 31 December 2014, we believed that profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional 
items provided us with the most appropriate basis for determining materiality by eliminating the 
disproportionate impact of exceptional items.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, we used a benchmark of earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, adjusted for exceptional items, as we believed this was the key 
financial performance indicator of the Group prior to listing. Our materiality was based on 5% of 
this benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£60,000 (2013: £50,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements 
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company 
have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s and parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 32 to 43 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
79
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of 
the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this 
responsibility.
• the statement given by the Directors on pages 72 and 73, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken  
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary  
for members to assess the Group’s and parent company’s performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company  
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this 
responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 46, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code,  
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this 
responsibility.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report - Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement 
has not been prepared by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
parent company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
80
Financial Statements
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 72 and 73, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, 
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into 
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary 
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the  
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications  
for our report.
Alan Kinnear (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
10 March 2015
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
81
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014)
£000)
2013)
£0 £000) 
Revenue 6 123,257) 105,620)     
Cost of sales (74,859) (64,027)
Gross profit 48,398) 41,593)
Administrative expenses (23,530) (18,975)
Exceptional administrative expenses 10 (5,412) (1,763)
Total administrative expenses (28,942) (20,738)
Operating profit 7 19,456) 20,855)
Financial income 11 4) 1)
Financial expense 11 (490) (964)
Net finance expense (486) (963)
Analysis of profit before income tax
Operating profit before exceptional Items 24,868) 22,618)
Exceptional items (5,412) (1,763)
Net finance expense (486) (963)
Profit before income tax 18,970) 19,892)
Taxation 12 (5,473) (5,162)
Profit for the year 13,497) 14,730)
Earnings per ordinary share
2014)
pence)
2013)) 
pence))
Basic and diluted 13 12.7) 14.1))
The results for the year shown above arise from continuing operations.
The notes on pages 86 to 112 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Income Statement FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
82
for the year ended 31 December 2014
2014) 
£000)
2013) 
£000)
Profit for the financial year 13,497) 14,730)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (excluding tax) 
Tax on items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
 
124
) 
(27)
 
21
) 
(4)
Total other comprehensive income 97) 17)
Total comprehensive income recognised for the year 13,594) 14,747)
The notes on pages 86 to 112 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
83
as at 31 December 2014
Note
2014)
)
£000)
2013)
(Restated)¹
£000))
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 2,522) 2,504)
Intangible assets 15 19,429) 19,399)
21,951) 21,903)
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 25,072) 21,028)
Cash and cash equivalents 18 12,287) 6,010)
37,359) 27,038)
Total assets 59,310) 48,941)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 14,013) 11,136)
Current income tax liabilities 2,515) 2,174)
16,528) 13,310)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 -) 15,000)
Deferred income tax liabilities 21 259) 25)
259) 15,025)
Total liabilities 16,787) 28,335)
Net assets 42,523) 20,606)
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 23 1,127) 1,018)
Share premium 8,364) 543)
Treasury shares -) (22)
Translation reserve 143) 46)
Retained earnings 32,889) 19,021)
Total equity 42,523) 20,606)
¹ See note 3.
The notes on pages 86 to 112 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer 
10 March 2015
 
 
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
10 March 2015 FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
84
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014) 
)  
£000)
2013)
(Restated)¹
£000)
Cash flows from operating activities
Group profit before tax for the year 18,970) 19,892)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 7 643) 497)
Finance income 11 (4) (1)
Finance costs 11 490) 964)
Share based payment cost 26 421) 114)
Loss on disposal of non-current assets -) 17)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (4,044) 26)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 2,852) (30)
Cash flows generated from operations 19,328) 21,479)
Interest received 4) 1)
Income tax paid (4,898) (5,090)
Net cash generated from operating activities 14,434) 16,390)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (601) (2,003)
Acquisition of other intangible assets (70) (68)
Net cash used in investing activities
(671) (2,071)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 7,902) -)
Drawdown of borrowings -) 20,000)
Repayment of borrowings 22 (15,000) (9,808)
Finance costs paid (466) (798)
Dividends paid 24 -) (19,920)
Net cash used in financing activities (7,564) (10,526)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 6,199) 3,793)
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 78) (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 18 6,010) 2,219)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12,287) 6,010)
¹ See note 3. 
The notes on pages 86 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
85
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Share)
capital)
Share)
premium)
Treasury)
shares)
Other) 
capital)
reserves)
Translation)
reserve)
Retained)
earnings)
Total)
equity)
£000) £000) £000) £000) £000) £000) £000)
Balance at 1 January 2014 1,018) 543) (22) -) 46) 19,021) 20,606)
Profit for the year -) -) -) -) -) 13,497) 13,497)
Other comprehensive 
income for the year
-) -) -) -) 97) -) 97)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
-) -) -) -) 97) 13,497) 13,594)
Share based payment 
(note 26)
-) -) -) 421) -) -) 421)
Transfer to  
retained earnings
-) -) -) (421) -) 421) -)
Sale of treasury shares -) -) 22) -) -) (22) -)
Bonus issue of shares 81) (53) -) -) -) (28) -)
Proceeds from  
shares issued
28) 7,972) -) -) -) -) 8,000)
Costs of shares issued -) (98) -) -) -) - (98)
Balance at  
31 December 2014
1,127) 8,364) -) -) 143) 32,889) 42,523)
Share)
capital)
Share)
premium)
(Restated)¹
Treasury)
shares
)
Other)
capital) 
reserves
)
Translation)
reserve)
Retained)
earnings)
(Restated)¹
Total)
equity)
£000) £000) £000) £000) £000) £000) £000)
Balance at 1 January 2013 1,018) 543) (75) 318) 29) 23,832) 25,665)
Profit for the year -) -) -) -) -) 14,730) 14,730)
Other comprehensive 
income for the year
-) -) -) -) 17) -) 17)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
-) -) -) -) 17) 14,730) 14,747)
Share based payments 
(note 26)
-) -) -) 114) -) -) 114)
Transfer to  
retained earnings
-) -) )-) (432) -) 432) -)
Purchase of treasury shares -) -) (428) -) -) -) (428)
Issue of treasury shares -) -) 481) -) -) (53) 428)
Dividends paid (note 24) -) -) -) -) -) (19,920) (19,920)
Balance at  
31 December 2013
1,018) 543) (22) -) )46) 19,021) 20,606)
¹ See note 3.
The notes on pages 86 to 112 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
86
1 General information
The Group is an international professional services provider focusing principally on Information Technology, specialising 
in the recruitment, training and deployment of its own permanent IT consultants.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London 
Stock Exchange. The Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014. The Company’s registered 
office is 3rd Floor, The Cottons Centre, Cottons Lane, London SE1 2QG and its registered number is 07078823. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries and their 
countries of incorporation are presented in note 3 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements present the results for the year ended 31 December 2014. The Consolidated 
Financial Statements were approved by Rod Flavell and Mike McLaren on behalf of the Board of Directors on  
10 March 2015.
2 Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are summarised in the Strategic Report. The principal risks and uncertainties and risk management processes 
are also described in the Strategic Report. 
The Group’s continued and forecast global growth, positive operating cash flow and liquidity position, together with its 
distinctive business model and infrastructure, enables the Group to manage its business risks. The Group’s forecasts 
and projections show that it will continue to operate with adequate cash resources and within the current working 
capital facilities. The Group passed all bank covenants tested in the year and forecasts that all covenants will be passed 
for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing this Annual Report.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
3 Accounting policies
3.1 Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (“IFRS IC”) interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis. The Consolidated Financial 
Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000), except where 
otherwise indicated.
The Group’s accounting policies have been applied consistently.
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
87
3.2 Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at  
31 December 2014.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and 
continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are 
prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group 
balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated 
in full.
Details of the subsidiaries owned by the Group are presented in note 3 to the Parent Company Financial Statements. 
There are no minority interests in the subsidiaries of the Company.
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies
a) Business combinations and goodwill
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of 
the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any 
asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair 
value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such 
re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-
date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired 
is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held 
interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, 
the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to the Group’s 
cash-generating unit that is expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of 
the acquiree are assigned to that unit.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain 
and loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values 
of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
88
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
b) Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and excluding sales taxes.
Rendering of services
Revenue from the provision of IT consultants to third party customers is recognised as follows: 
• The revenue is recognised in the period in which the IT consultants perform the work at the contracted rates for 
each IT consultant. Revenue is based on timesheets from its IT consultants which are authorised by the Group’s 
customers detailing the hours and service provided; 
• Revenue in respect of non-receipted timesheets is accrued at the estimated contract value.
c) Foreign currency translation
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Company operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in Pounds Sterling (£), which is the functional 
currency of the Parent Company and the presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction. At the end of each reporting 
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the 
reporting period. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations 
are expressed in the Group’s presentational currency using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. 
Income and expense related items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences 
arising are classified as other comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve.
d) Taxes
Current income tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are 
enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
89
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following 
temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the 
extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related 
tax benefit will be realised.
e) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an 
item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Motor vehicles    4 years
Plant and equipment   4 years
Fixtures and fittings   4 years
Leasehold improvements   Length of lease
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed each financial year end and adjusted 
if appropriate. 
f) Leases
Operating leases
Operating lease payments are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as part of the total lease expense.
g) Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination are their fair values as at the date of acquisition. 
Software and software licences
The Group holds acquired software and software licences as intangible assets. Acquired software and software licences 
are capitalised on the basis of cost and amortised over the estimated useful lives of the software which is estimated to 
be four years or the licence term if shorter. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of 
each annual reporting period and adjusted if appropriate.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
90
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
 
g) Intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purposes of 
impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units.
Goodwill is reviewed annually or when there is an indication of impairment. Impairment of goodwill is determined by 
assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill 
has been allocated, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in  
future periods.
h) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for 
impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision 
is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted 
at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts previously written off are credited against administrative expenses in the income statement.
i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and on hand and short term 
deposits with a maturity of three months or less.
j) Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost. The Group’s financial 
liabilities include trade and other payables, working capital facilities and bank loans.
Loans and financial liabilities
Borrowing costs paid on the establishment of credit facilities are recognised as an expense in the income statement over 
the expected usage period of the facility.
k) Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those 
of the Group in an independently administered fund. The amount charged to the income statement represents the 
contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
91
l) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to 
provide a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group. They are items of expense or income that are 
material or one-off in nature and are shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
m) Equity
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or 
options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes), and deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the 
shares are cancelled or reissued. No gain or loss is recognised on the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or 
cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount and consideration (net 
of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects), if reissued, is recognised in 
share premium. Treasury shares relate to those shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and are consolidated in the 
results of the Group. The Company is the sponsoring entity of the Employee Benefit Trust.
Other capital reserves represent the cost of equity on settled share based payments until such share options are exercised 
or lapse.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations.
n) Share based payments
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, 
whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (equity settled transactions).
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in other capital reserves 
in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative expense 
recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense. The equity settled transactions are 
fair valued at the grant date and the expense recognised over the duration of the vesting period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting 
is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
When the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense 
as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional expense is recognised for 
any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to 
the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
92
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
 
n) Share based payments (continued) 
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the 
control of either the entity or the employee are not met. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, 
and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they 
were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The share transactions of the Employee Benefit Trust are consolidated in the results of the Group. 
o) Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Board of Directors. The 
Executive Directors have been identified as the chief operating decision maker. 
p) Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are fully authorised, or in the case of interim dividends 
when paid.
q) Restatement of previously reported figures
The retained earnings and share premium accounts as at 31 December 2013 have been restated to adjust for a 
reclassification in the accounting for disposals of treasury shares in previous years amounting to £175,000.
In addition, minor reclassifications have been made within the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 
December 2013. These reclassifications have no impact on the reported net cash generated from operating activities, net cash 
used in investing activities, net cash used in financing activities or the net increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year.
These adjustments are individually and in aggregate immaterial to the financial statements. The adjustments were made 
during the preparation of the historical financial information for the Group’s IPO and therefore are reflected in these 
financial statements.
4 Significant accounting estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates 
could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset and liability affected in 
future periods. The following are considered to be the Group’s significant areas of judgement:
Impairment of goodwill
For impairment testing of goodwill the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) is calculated to reflect a required rate 
of return. The WACC is used to discount the estimated future cash flows of the Group to arrive at a value in use, which is 
compared to the carrying value of the goodwill and other net assets of the respective cash-generating unit at the balance 
sheet date. If the value in use is greater than the carrying value of goodwill and other net assets at the balance sheet date, 
there is no impairment.
Deferred tax
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, 
based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
93
5 New standards and interpretations 
The IASB and IFRS IC have issued the following standards and interpretations which were effective during the year and 
were adopted by the Group in preparing the financial statements. The adoption of these standards and interpretations 
has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements in the year:
Effective in 2014
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after Endorsed by the EU
New standards
IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements” 1 January 2014 Yes
IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities” 1 January 2014 Yes
IAS 27 (revised 2011), “Separate financial statements” 1 January 2014 Yes
Amendments
Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance 1 January 2014 Yes
Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 27 on consolidation for 
investment entities  
1 January 2014 Yes
Amendments to IAS 32 on financial instruments asset and 
liability offsetting
1 January 2014 Yes
Amendment to IAS 36, “Impairment of assets”, on 
recoverable amount disclosures 
1 January 2014 Yes
Amendment to IAS 39, “Financial instruments: recognition 
and measurement”, on novation of derivatives and hedge 
accounting 
1 January 2014 Yes
New IFRICs
IFRIC, “Levies” 1 January 2014 No
The IASB and IFRS IC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date of implementation for 
accounting periods beginning after the date on which the Group’s financial statements for the current year commenced. 
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on 
the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application:
Effective after 31 December 2014
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after Endorsed by the EU
New standards
IFRS 9, “Financial instruments” 1 January 2018 No
IFRS 15, “Revenue from contracts with customers” 1 January 2017 No 
Amendments
Amendment to IAS 19, “Employee benefits”, on defined  
benefit plans 
1 July 2015 Yes
Amendment to IAS 16 “Property, plant and equipment” and  
IAS 38, “Intangible assets’ regarding depreciation and amortisation
1 January 2016 No
Amendment to IFRS 11,”Joint arrangements” on acquisition of 
an interest in a joint operation, 
1 January 2016 No
Amendment to IAS 16 ,”Property, plant and equipment” and  
IAS 38,”Intangible assets”, on depreciation and amortisation 
1 January 2016 No
Amendments to IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements” 
and IAS 28,'Investments in associates and joint ventures' on sale 
or contribution of assets 
 1 January 2016 No
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
94
5 New standards and interpretations (continued)
Effective after 31 December 2014 (continued)
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning on  
or after Endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 1, ”Presentation of financial statements” 
disclosure initiative 
1 January 2016 No
Amendment to IFRS 9, ”Financial instruments”, on general 
hedge accounting (effective date 1 Jan 2018)
1 January 2018 No
Annual improvements 2012 1 July 2014 No
Annual improvements 2013 1 July 2014 No
Annual improvements 2014 1 July 2016 No
 
6 Segmental reporting
Management has determined the operating segments based on the operating reports reviewed by the Board of Directors 
that are used to assess both performance and strategic decisions. Management has identified that the Executive Directors 
are the chief operating decision maker in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 “Operating segments”.
At 31 December 2014, the Board of Directors consider that the Group is organised on a worldwide basis into four core 
geographical operating segments:
 
(1) UK and Ireland; 
(2) North America; 
(3) Rest of Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding UK and Ireland (“EMEA”); and 
(4) Asia Pacific (“APAC”)
 
Each geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment and is subject to 
risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length. All segment revenue, profit before taxation, assets and liabilities 
are attributable to the principal activity of the Group being an international IT services provider.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
95
For the year ended 31 December 2014
UK and)      
Ireland)
£000)
North) 
America)
£000)
EMEA)) 
£000))
APAC)
£000)
Total)
£000)
Revenue 90,313) 22,122) 8,909) 1,913) 123,257)
Depreciation and amortisation (456) (165) (20) (2) (643)
Operating profit before exceptional items 18,089) 5,490) 1,032) 257) 24,848)
Exceptional items (5,339) (73) - - (5,412)
Segment operating profit 12,750) 5,417) 1,032) 257) 19,456)
Finance income 4) -) - -) 4)
Finance costs (473) (5) (11) (1) (490)
Profit before tax 12,281) 5,412) 1,021) 256) 18,970)
Total assets 47,101) 7,546) 3,676) 987) 59,310)
Total liabilities 11,551) 3,435) 1,357) 444) 16,787)
For the year ended 31 December 2013
              UK and     
Ireland
£000
North 
America
£000
EMEA
£000
APAC
£000
Total
£000
Revenue 77,323) 14,822) 12,171) 1,304) 105,620)
Depreciation and amortisation (335) (136) (24) (2) (497)
Operating profit before exceptional items 17,390) 3,459) 1,687) 82) 22,618)
Exceptional items (1,720) (43) -) -) (1,763)
Segment operating profit 15,670) 3,416) 1,687) 82) 20,855)
Finance income 1) -) -) -) 1)
Finance costs (964) -) -) -) (964)
Profit before tax 14,707) 3,416) 1,687) 82) 19,892)
Total assets 40,042) 4,380) 3,926) 593) 48,941)
Total liabilities 24,409) 2,350) 1,373) 203) 28,335)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
96
6 Segmental reporting (continued)
 
Information about major customers
Revenue from each customer that represents 10% or more of the Group’s revenues is attributable to all four operating 
segments and is presented as follows:
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Customer A 30,252) 24,871)
Customer B 7,035) 10,568)
7 Operating profit
Operating profit for the year has been arrived at after (crediting)/charging:
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Hire of property – operating leases 2,048) 1,957)
Net foreign exchange differences (46) 96)
Depreciation and amortisation 643) 497)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets -) 9)
Auditors’ remuneration
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor:
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of Parent Company and 
Consolidated Financial Statements
65) 44)
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for other services:
- The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries
- Fees in relation to Admission process 
100)
725)
1
28)
-)
890) 72)
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
97
8 Staff numbers and costs 
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group (including Executive Directors) during the year, analysed 
by category, was as follows:
2014
Number
2013)
Number)
IT Consultants 1,390 1,122)
Sales 71 63)
Administration 196 166)
1,657 1,351)
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2014 2013) 
£000 £000)
Wages and salaries 52,358 43,242)
Social security costs 5,517 4,738)
Pension costs 604 185)
Share based payments 421 114)
58,900 48,279)
 
Retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The pension charge for the year represents 
contributions payable by the Group to the scheme. There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at the end of the 
financial years 2014 and 2013.
 
9 Directors’ remuneration
Details of the Directors’ (key management personnel) remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 is 
set out below:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Short term employee benefits 1,780 1,693
Post-employment benefits 24 17
Share based payments 421 114
2,225 1,824
 
For further information on Directors’ remuneration, see the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 69.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
98
10 Exceptional items
During 2014, the Group incurred £5,412,000 of exceptional expenses. These comprised £4,887,000 in respect of the 
Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange, and exceptional staff costs, including share based payments 
relating to a scheme that existed prior to Admission of £525,000.
During 2013, the Group incurred £1,763,000 of exceptional expenses. These comprised exceptional property costs upon 
relocation of the London office and dilapidation provisions for operating leases expiring in 2014 of £1,295,000, exceptional 
staff costs of £362,000 and exceptional investment costs of £106,000.
 
11 Financial income and expense
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Bank interest 4) 1)
Financial income 4) 1)
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Interest payable on working capital facility (51) (63)
Interest payable on revolving credit facility (351) (227)
Finance fees and charges (88) (674)
Financial expense (490) (964)
12 Taxation 
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 are:
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Current income tax:
Current income tax charge 5,540) 5,017)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (301) -)
Deferred tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 67) 70)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 167) 75)
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 5,473) 5,162)
 
The standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK changed from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013, and to 21% with 
effect from 1 April 2014. Accordingly, the Company’s profits for the respective accounting periods are taxed at an effective 
rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%).
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
99
Reconciliation of effective tax
2014)  2013)
£000) £000)
Profit before income tax 18,970) 19,892)
Profit multiplied by UK standard rate of corporation tax of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 4,079) 4,625)
Effect of different tax rates on overseas earnings 644) 333)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (135) 75)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 885) 129)
Total tax charge 5,473) 5,162)
Factors affecting future tax charges
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rate that is expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting 
date. Therefore, at each year end, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on the rates that have 
been substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
The main UK corporation tax rate will further reduce to 20% from 1 April 2015. Therefore, at 31 December 2014 and  
31 December 2013, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on a rate of 20% where the temporary 
difference is expected to reverse after 1 April 2015. These reductions may also reduce the Group’s future current tax 
charges accordingly.
13 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company  
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The 2013 average number of shares in  
issue reflects the impact of the share reorganisation prior to Admission. For detail of the change in the number of shares,  
please refer to note 23. There is no difference between basic and diluted earnings per share for the year as there are no 
dilutive shares.
2014 2013
Profit for the year £000 13,497 14,730
Average number of ordinary shares in issue Number 106,219,238 104,730,049
Earnings per share (ordinary shares) Pence 12.7 14.1
Basic earnings per share (before exceptional items) is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity 
holders of the Parent Company, excluding exceptional items, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
100
13 Earnings per ordinary share (continued)
Earnings per share before exceptional items 2014 2013
Profit for the year £000 13,497 14,730
Exceptional items (net of tax) £000 5,137 1,353
Profit for the year before Exceptional Items £000 18,634 16,033
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Number 106,219,238 104,730,049
Earnings per share before exceptional items (ordinary shares) Pence 17.5   15.4  
 
14 Property, plant and equipment
2014
Leasehold) 
improvement)
Motor) 
vehicles)
Fixtures and)
 fittings)
Plant and) 
equipment) Total)
£000) £000) £000) £000) £000)
Cost
At 1 January 2014 2,171) 23) 479) 1,284) 3,957)
Additions 202) -) 155) 244) 601)
Disposals (28) )-) -) (121) (149)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 16) )-) 8) 7) 31)
)
At 31 December 2014 2,361) 23) 642) 1,414) 4,440)
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 427) 21) 224) 781) 1,453)
Depreciation charge for the year 222) 2) 125) 254) 603)
Disposals (28) -) -) (121) (149)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2) -) 6) 3) 11)
At 31 December 2014 623) 23) 355) 917) 1,918)
Net book value at 31 December 2014 1,738) -) 287) 497) 2,522)
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
101
2013
Leasehold)
improvement)
Motor)
vehicles)
Fixtures and)
 fittings)
Plant and)
equipment) Total)
£000) £000) £000) £000) £000)
Cost
At 1 January 2013 952) 23) 483) 975) 2,433)
Additions 1,519) -) 164) 320) 2,003)
Disposals (296) -) (163) (6) (465)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (4) -) (5) (5) (14)
At 31 December 2013 2,171) 23) 479) 1,284) 3,957)
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 556) 17) 287) 582) 1,442)
Depreciation charge for the year 169) 4) 86) 207) 466)
Disposals (296) -) (146) (6) (448)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (2) -) (3) (2) (7)
At 31 December 2013 427) 21) 224) 781) 1,453)
Net book value at 31 December 2013 1,744) 2) 255) 503) 2,504)
15 Intangible assets
2014
Software and)
Software Licences) Goodwill Total)
£000) £000 £000)
Cost
At 1 January 2014 347) 19,322) 19,669)
Additions 70) -) 70)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2) -) 2)
At 31 December 2014 419) 19,322) 19,741)
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 270) -) 270)
Amortisation for the year 40) -) 40)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2) -) 2)
At 31 December 2014 312) -) 312)
Net book value at 31 December 2014 107) 19,322) 19,429)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
102
15 Intangible assets (continued)
2013
Software and)
Software Licences) Goodwill Total)
£000) £000 £000)
Cost
At 1 January 2013 405 19,322 19,727
Additions 68 - 68
Disposals (127) - (127)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1 - 1
At 31 December 2013 347 19,322 19,669
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2013 366) -) 366)
Amortisation for the year 31) -) 31)
Disposals (127) -) (127)
At 31 December 2013 270) -) 270)
Net book value at 31 December 2013 77) 19,322) 19,399)
 
 
The amortisation charge is recognised in administrative expenses in the income statement. The amortisation period of 
the software and software licences is four years. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment test. 
The goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units (“CGUs”) summarised as follows:
UK and )
Ireland)
North) 
America) EMEA) APAC) Total)
£000) £000) £000) £000) £000)
Cost and net book value
At 31 December 2014 and 2013 14,843) 3,082) 1,397) -) 19,322)
16 Impairment testing of goodwill 
An overview of impairment reviews performed by CGUs is set out below. The recoverable amount of each CGU has 
been determined on value in use calculations using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by the Board 
covering a two year period from the date of the relevant impairment review. The key assumptions in the projections were, 
for all CGUs, as follows:
• Revenue and gross margin were based on expected levels of activity under existing major contractual arrangements 
together with growth based upon medium term historical growth rates and having regard to expected economic and 
market conditions for other customers.
• Administrative expenses were forecast to move in line with expected levels of activity in the CGU.
• The growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond the two year forecast period was 2.0% up to a period of 
15 years in total.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
103
The pre-tax discount rates used in the calculations were as follows:
2014) 2013)
%) %)
UK and Ireland 11.81) 12.92)
EMEA 10.39) 12.25)
North America 13.58) 16.76)
As a result of the review the Directors did not identify any impairment for the goodwill in each CGU. In considering 
sensitivities, no reasonable change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall 
below the carrying value of the CGUs.
17 Trade and other receivables
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Trade receivables 21,654) 17,087)
Other receivables 191) 235)
Prepayments and accrued income 3,227) 3,706)
25,072) 21,028)
2014) 2013)
The trade receivables as at 31 December are aged as follows: £000) £000)
Not overdue 14,795) 8,695)
Not more than three months past due 6,461) 8,086)
More than three months but not more than six months past due 388) 235)
More than six months but not more than one year past due 87) 137)
Provision for impairment (77) (66)
21,654) 17,087)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
104
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Pounds Sterling 14,915) 12,668)
Euro 1,329) 793)
Swiss Franc 678) 915)
US Dollar 3,722) 2,301)
Canadian Dollar 447) 189)
Hong Kong Dollar 212) 130)
Singapore Dollar 156) )91)
South African Rand 183) -)
Chinese Renminbi 8) -)
Swedish Krona 4) -)
21,654) 17,087)
Financial Statements
17 Trade and other receivables (continued)
The provision for impairment covers debt which is more than six months but not more than one year past due. All other 
trade receivables are fully performing. 
The movement in the provision for impairment is as below:
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
At 1 January 66) 133)
Charge for the year 11) -)
Unused amounts reversed -) (67)
Utilised in the year -) -)
At 31 December 77) 66) FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
105
Cash and cash equivalents denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling comprise £4,362,000 (2013: £2,997,000), 
denominated in Euro, Swiss Franc, Hong Kong Dollar, Singapore Dollar, US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, South African Rand, 
Swedish Krona and Chinese Renminbi.
The Group currently holds facilities in the form of an Import Line facility of US $322,600 and a Class Guarantee facility  
of €33,000. 
The Group has issued guarantees in favour of Rptre Sarl for €31,548, Commerzbank for CHF150,000, CRP/Capstone 14W 
Property Owner LLC totalling US $242,399 and Roza 14W LLC for a leasehold property in the USA for US $25,973.
The credit quality of financial assets can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings issued by credit ratings 
agencies registered in the EU. Cash at bank is held with banks with the following ratings:
Cash at bank by credit rating 2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
AA 11,467) 5,467)
A 820) 543)
              
12,287) 6,010)
19 Trade and other payables
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Trade payables 2,730) 1,850)
Other payables 881) 864)
Other taxes and social security 4,504) 3,640)
Accruals and deferred income 5,898) 4,782)
14,013) 11,136)
Trade and other payables denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling comprise £2,305,000 (2013: £873,000), 
denominated in Euro, Swiss Franc, Hong Kong Dollar, Singapore Dollar, US Dollar, Canadian Dollar,  South African Rand, 
Swedish Krona and Chinese Renminbi.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
18 Cash and cash equivalents
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Cash at bank and in hand 12,287) 6,010) FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
106
20 Borrowings
Current) Non-current) Current) Non-current)
2014) 2014) 2013) 2013)
£000) £000) £000) £000)
Secured - at amortised cost
Revolving credit facility (i) -) -) -) 15,000)
Revolving credit facility (ii) -) -) -) -)
-) -) -) 15,000)
(i) Revolving credit facility
The Group has a £20,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) with HSBC Bank plc, expiring on 14 August 2018. The facility 
is available to be repaid and redrawn at the discretion of the Group. 
The RCF is secured by way of a debenture on the assets of the Company, Astra 5.0 Limited, FDM Group Limited and FDM 
Group Inc. The interest rate on the RCF is fixed at 2.75% over LIBOR per annum. There is a charge of 1.0% per annum on 
non-utilised funds. 
(i) Working capital facility
At 31 December 2014 the Group had a working capital facility of £10,000,000 provided by HSBC. The facility expired in 
February 2015 at the end of the facility term.
21 Deferred income tax liabilities 
 
Group deferred tax liabilities are attributable to the following:
2014)
£000)
2013)
£000)
Non-current:
Non-current temporary differences (259) (25)
Deferred tax liability (259) (25)
Movement in deferred tax during 2014:
1 January) 
2014)
£000)
Recognised)
in income)
statement)
£000)
Recognised)
in equity)
£000)
31)
December)
2014)
£000)
Property, plant and equipment (25) (234)) -) (259)
25) (234)) -) (259)
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
107
Movement in deferred tax during 2013:
1 January) 
2013)
£000)
Recognised)
in income)
statement)
£000)
Recognised)
in equity)
£000)
31) 
December)
2013)
£000)
Property, plant and equipment 45) (70) -) (25)
Share based payments 75) (75) -) -)
120) (145) -) (25)
22 Analysis of net cash/(debt) (non-GAAP measure)
2014) 2013)
Analysis of net cash/(debt) £000) £000)
Revolving credit facility -) (15,000)
Total debt -) (15,000)
Add cash and cash equivalents 12,287) 6,010
Net cash/(debt) 12,287) (8,990)
Net debt is defined as borrowings less net cash and cash equivalents. The Group had undrawn borrowings at  
31 December 2014 of £30,000,000 (2013: £15,000,000).
2014) 2013)
Movement of net cash/(debt) £000) £000)
Net debt at beginning of year (8,990) (2,589)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 6,199) 3,791)
Drawdown of borrowings -) (20,000)
Repayment of borrowings 15,000) 9,808)
Exchange gains 78) -)
Total net cash/(debt) 12,287) (8,990)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
108
23 Share capital
Authorised, called up, allotted and fully paid share capital
2014 2014 2013 2013
Number of 
shares
£000 Number of 
shares
£000
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 107,517,506 1,075 - -
Deferred shares of £0.01 each 5,200,392 52 - -
A ordinary shares - - 61,500,000 615
B ordinary shares - - 36,454,805 365
C ordinary shares - - 2,045,195 20
D shares - - 1,839,520 18
Consolidated Exit shares - - 8,090,921 -
112,717,898 1,127 109,930,441 1,018
 
On 20 June 2014 a reorganisation of the Company’s share capital took place. The reorganisation involved the following 
steps being taken in respect of the share capital of the Company:
i) Certain of the distributable profits of the Company and an amount standing to the credit of the Company’s  
 share premium account were capitalised in order to pay up in full 809,084,009,079 new Exit shares (the “New  
 Exit shares”) on a 99,999:1 basis to the holders of the existing Exit shares; 
ii) The 809,084,009,079 New Exit shares and the 8,090,921 existing Exit shares were consolidated into 8,090,921  
 Exit shares of £0.01 each (the “Consolidated Exit shares”);
iii) A number of shares were reclassified as deferred shares of £0.01 each, having the rights set out in the articles of  
 association of the Company; and
iv) The remaining A ordinary shares, B ordinary shares, C ordinary shares, D shares and Consolidated Exit shares  
 were reclassified into ordinary shares of £0.01 each having the rights set out in the articles of association of  
 the Company.
Immediately following the reorganisation the Company issued 2,787,457 new ordinary shares to investors as part of its 
initial public offering and Admission to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and 
to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities. Directly attributable expenses of £98,000 
were incurred; these costs have been deducted from the proceeds of shares issued which have been recognised in  
share premium.
All ordinary shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions that may be declared on such shares. At general 
meetings of the Company, each shareholder who is present (in person, by proxy or by representative) is entitled to one 
vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote per share.
The deferred shares are not entitled to any dividend or distribution and the holders have no right to attend, speak or vote 
at any general meeting of the Company by virtue of their holdings of any deferred shares. The holder of each deferred 
share has the right to receive, after the holders of all other shares in the capital of the Company (other than the deferred 
shares) then in issue have received £10,000,000 in respect of each such share held by them. It is proposed that the 
deferred shares will be cancelled at the AGM held on 30 April 2015.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
109
24 Dividends
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Dividends paid
Paid to shareholders -) 19,920)
-) 19,920)
The Group did not pay a dividend during the year. It is the Directors’ intention to declare an interim dividend of 7.5 pence 
per ordinary share in respect of the period from Admission on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 2014. The proposed interim 
dividend is subject to final Board approval at a meeting of the Board to be held on 30 April 2015. During the year ended 
31 December 2013 the Company paid dividends of £19,920,000 (£0.20 per share).
2014) 2013)
Dividends paid per share £000) £000)
A ordinary shares; £nil per share (2013: £0.20) -) 12,300)
B ordinary shares; £nil per share (2013: £0.20) -) 7,211)
C ordinary shares; £nil per share (2013: £0.20) -) 409)
D shares; £nil per share (2013: £nil) -) -)
Exit shares; £nil per share (2013: £nil) -) -)
-) 19,920)
25 Operating leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties. Future minimum payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases are as follows:
2014)  2013)
£000) £000)
Less than one year 1,366) 927)
Between one and five years 6,292) 5,788)
More than five years 5,023) 6,393)
12,681) 13,108)
 
There are no contingent rents, purchase options, escalation clauses or significant restrictions on any of the Group’s 
operating leases.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
110
26 Share based payments
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Expenses arising from equity settled share based payment transaction (i) 421) -)
Expenses arising from equity settled share based payment transaction (ii) -) 114)
421) 114)
i)  2014 share based payments
On 20 June 2014 the FDM Employee Benefit Trust transferred ownership of 146,520 B shares to three Directors of the 
Company for £nil consideration. The share based payment arises as a result of the exercise price being at a lower price 
than the fair value share price at the transfer date, being the date when the shares were valued. The fair value of the 
shares at the time of the transfer has been calculated using the share price on Admission of £2.87.
ii) 2013 share based payments 
On 12 August 2013 the FDM Employee Benefit Trust transferred ownership of the 952,862 B shares to three Directors 
of the Company. The share based payment arises as a result of the exercise price being at a lower price than the fair 
value share price at the transfer date, being the date when the shares were valued. The incremental fair value, being 
the difference between the modified equity instrument and the original equity instrument, has been recognised at the 
transfer date.
The fair value was assessed using the Black Scholes model. The following table lists the inputs to the model used to fair 
value the shares issued for employee services received during the year:
B shares)
2013)
Volatility 35%)
Expected life (years) 0 years)
Share price £0.98)
Exercise price £0.86)
Risk free rate 2.9%)
Dividend yield 0%)
The expected life of the B shares for the 2013 share based payment is based upon the transfer date being 12 August 
2013. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends. The shares 
have been accounted for as equity settled share based payment transactions.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
111
27 Related parties
During the year the company paid rental of £33,000 (2013: £nil) to Sheila Flavell, Chief Operating Officer, for rent of 
an apartment used for short term employee accommodation. The rent payable was at market rate, no balances were 
outstanding at year end (2013: £nil).
Inflexion Private Equity partners, who owned 61.5% of the voting rights of the Company until Admission invoiced fees 
to the value of £43,000 (2013: £90,000) for Director’s fees and expenses, no balances were outstanding at year end  
(2013: £nil).
28 Financial risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure the Company and all its subsidiaries will be able to continue as a going concern 
whilst maximising the return to shareholders.
The use of financial instruments is managed under policies and procedures approved by the Board. These are designed 
to reduce the financial risks faced by the Group and Company, which primarily relate to credit, interest, liquidity, capital 
management and foreign currency risks, which arise in the normal course of the Group’s business.
There are no adjustments between the amounts presented in the Statement of Financial Position and the fair values of 
the assets and liabilities.
Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis and arises from cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. The Group 
provides credit to customers in the normal course of business and the amount that appears in the Statement of Financial 
Position is net of an allowance of £77,000 (2013: £66,000) for specific doubtful receivables. 
All material trade receivable balances relate to sales transactions with the Group’s blue-chip customer base. At the 
reporting date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented 
by the carrying amount of each financial asset. 
Credit risk is managed through agreed procedures which include managing and analysing the credit risk for new 
customers and managing existing customers.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily 
to the Group’s long term debt facility which has an interest rate of 2.75% above LIBOR. At the year end the Group had no 
borrowings therefore is has limited exposure to interest rates risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk through regular reviews of its exposure to changes in interest rates. In 2014 the 
Group generated cash to repay its revolving credit facility and should the facility be subsequently redrawn the Group will 
consider its exposure to increases in UK interest rates. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
112
28  Financial risk management (continued)
Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash flows and where appropriate matches the maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has no borrowings from third parties at the year end and therefore liquidity risk is not considered a significant 
risk at this time.
Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor market, creditor, customer and employee 
confidence and to sustain future investment and development of the business. The capital structure of the Group 
consists of equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group comprising of issued share capital, other reserves and  
retained earnings.
On 20 June 2014 a reorganisation of the Company’s share capital took place. The reorganisation involved consolidating 
the previous share structure into one class of ordinary share. A number of shares were deferred to facilitate this 
reorganisation and will be cancelled at the AGM on 30 April 2015.
The Board monitors the capital structure on a regular basis and determines the level of annual dividend. The Group is not 
exposed to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates 
primarily to the Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the 
Group’s functional currency) and the Group’s net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Swiss Franc and Euro. The Group has both 
cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a natural hedge. The Group has not entered into hedging 
contracts for cash positions denominated in foreign currencies.
Fair values
There is no significant difference between the carrying amounts shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position and the fair values of the Group and Company’s financial instruments. For current trade and other receivables/ 
payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the amortised cost is deemed to reflect the fair value.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
113
as at 31 December 2014
Note 2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Non-current assets
Investments 3 -) -)
Total non-current assets -) -)
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 4 4,351) 1,181)
Cash and cash equivalents 5 5) 5)
Total current assets 4,356) 1,186)
Total assets 4,356) 1,186)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 6 103) -)
Total liabilities 103) -)
Net assets 4,253) 1,186)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 7 1,127) 1,018)
Share premium 7,874) 53)
Retained earnings (4,748) 115)
Total equity 4,253) 1,186)
 
The Parent Company made a loss for the year of £4,835,000 (2013: profit of £20,300,000).
The notes on pages 116 to 119 are an integral part of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Parent Company Statement of 
Financial Position
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2015
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
10 March 2015 FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
114
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note 2014)  2013)
£000) £000)
Cash flows from operating activities
Company (loss)/profit before tax for the year (4,835) 20,300)
Adjustments for:
Dividends received -) (20,300)
Increase in trade and other receivables (3,170) (280)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 103) (19)
Cash flows generated from operations (7,902) (299)
Interest received -) -)
Income tax paid -) -)
Net cash flow used in operating activities (7,902) (299)
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received 10 -) 20,220)
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 7,902) -)
Net cash generated from investing activities 7,902) 20,200)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 10 -) (19,920)
Net cash used in financing activities -) (19,920)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents -) 1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 5) 4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 5 5) 5)
The notes on pages 116 to 119 are an integral part of these Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of 
Cash Flows
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
115
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Share)
capital)
Share)
premium)
Retained)
earnings)
Total)
equity)
£000) £000) £000) £000)
Balance at 1 January 2014 1,018) 53) 115) 1,186)
Loss for the year -) -) (4,835) (4,835)
Total comprehensive income for the year -) -) (4,835) (4,835)
Bonus issue 81) (53) (28) -)
Proceeds from shares issued 28) 7,972) -) 8,000)
Costs of shares issued -) (98) -) (98)
Balance at 31 December 2014 1,127) 7,874) (4,748) 4,253)
Share)
capital)
Share)
premium)
Retained)
earnings)
Total)
equity)
£000) £000) £000) £000)
Balance at 1 January 2013 1,018) 53) (185) 886)
Profit for the year -) -) 20,300) 20,300)
Total comprehensive income for the year -) -) 20,300) 20,300)
Dividends paid -) -) (20,000) (20,000)
Balance at 31 December 2013 1,018) 53) 115) 1,186)
The notes on pages 116 to 119 are an integral part of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
116
1 Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that with the continued support of other Group companies, the Company 
will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence as a holding company for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
 
2 Accounting policies
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) as adopted by the European Union and in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 
31 December 2014 and in accordance with IFRIC interpretations.
The Company has taken the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Parent 
Company income statement. The loss for the year was £4,835,000 (2013: profit of £20,300,000).
The financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as those of the Group. These are set out in note 3 in the Notes to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, except that the Company has no policy in respect of consolidation. Investments 
are carried at historical cost.
 
3 Investments
2014)
£000)
2013)  £000)
At 1 January and 31 December -) -)
The Company holds the following investments:
Company Country of 
Incorporation
Class of
 share held
Direct/ 
Indirect
Ownership
Astra 5.0 Limited Great Britain Ordinary Direct 100%
FDM Group Limited Great Britain Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Astra Ireland Limited Ireland Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group Inc. USA Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group Canada Inc. Canada Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group NV Belgium Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group GmbH Germany Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Switzerland GmbH Switzerland Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group SA Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM South Africa (PTY) Limited South Africa Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Singapore Consulting PTE Limited Singapore Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Technology (Shanghai) Co. Limited China Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group HK Limited Hong Kong Ordinary Indirect 100%
The total cost of investments is £2 (2013: £2).
Astra 5.0 Limited acts as an intermediate holding company and provides HR services to the Group. The remaining 
subsidiaries carry out the principal activity of the Group.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
117
5 Cash and cash equivalents
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Cash at bank and in hand 5) 5)
 
The Company’s cash is held with a financial institution with a credit rating of AA at the date of signing the 
financial statements. 
6 Trade and other payables
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Accruals and deferred income 103) -)
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
4 Trade and other receivables
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 4,345) 1,181)
Prepayments and accrued income 6) -)
4,351) 1,181)
 
All trade and other receivables are receivable in Pounds Sterling and are fully performing. Amounts owed by subsidiary 
undertakings are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
118
7 Share capital
Authorised, called up, allotted and fully paid share capital
2014 2014 2013 2013
Number of 
shares
£000 Number of 
shares
£000
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 107,517,506 1,075 - -
Deferred shares 5,200,392 52 - -
A ordinary shares - - 61,500,000 615
B ordinary shares - - 36,454,805 365
C ordinary shares - - 2,045,195 20
D shares - - 1,839,520 18
Consolidated Exit shares - - 8,090,921 -
At 31 December 112,717,898 1,127 109,930,441 1,018
 
On 20 June 2014 a reorganisation of the Company’s share capital took place. The reorganisation involved the following 
steps being taken in respect of the share capital of the Company:
i) Certain of the distributable profits of the Company and an amount standing to the credit of the Company’s  
 share premium account were capitalised in order to pay up in full 809,084,009,079 new Exit shares (the “New  
 Exit shares”) on a 99,999:1 basis to the holders of the existing Exit shares;
ii) The 809,084,009,079 New Exit shares and the 8,090,921 existing Exit shares were consolidated into 8,090,921  
 Exit shares of £0.01 each (the “Consolidated Exit shares”);
iii) A number of shares were reclassified as deferred shares of £0.01 each, having the rights set out in the Articles  
 of Association of the Company; and
iv) The remaining A ordinary shares, B ordinary shares, C ordinary shares, D shares and Consolidated Exit shares  
 were reclassified into ordinary shares of £0.01 each having the rights set out in the Articles of Association of  
 the Company.
Immediately following the reorganisation the Company issued 2,787,457 new ordinary shares to investors as part of its 
initial public offering and Admission to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and 
to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities. Directly attributable expenses of £98,000 
were incurred, these costs have been deducted from the proceeds of shares issued which have been recognised in 
share premium.
All ordinary shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions that may be declared on such shares. At general 
meetings of the Company, each shareholder who is present (in person, by proxy or by representative) is entitled to one 
vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote per share.
The deferred shares are not entitled to any dividend or distribution and the holders have no right to attend, speak 
or vote at any general meeting of the Company by virtue of their holdings of any deferred shares. The holder of each 
deferred share has the right to receive, after the holders of all other shares in the capital of the Company (other than the 
deferred shares) then in issue have received £10,000,000 in respect of each such share held by them. It is proposed that 
the deferred shares will be cancelled at the AGM held on 30 April 2015.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
119
8 Related parties
The Company holds inter-company balances with it a subsidiary undertaking, as detailed in note 3. The transactions that 
have taken place are in relation to inter-company loan repayments/additions for the below by subsidiary.
2014 2013
£000 £000
Astra 5.0 Limited 4,345 1,181
 
9 Financial risk management
The financial risks and uncertainties the Company faces are the same as those of the Group. These are set out on  
pages 111 to 112.
 
10 Dividends
2014) 2013)
£000) £000)
Dividends received
Received from subsidiaries -) 20.300)
Dividends paid
Paid to shareholders -) 19,920)
The Company did not pay a dividend during the year. It is the Directors’ intention to declare an interim dividend of 7.5 
pence per ordinary share in respect of the period from Admission on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 2014 (2013: dividend 
of 20 pence per share for the year). The proposed interim dividend is subject to final Board approval at a meeting of the 
Board to be held on 30 April 2015. The Company is due to receive a dividend of £20,000,000 from subsidiary Astra 5.0 
Limited, which will create distributable reserves for the dividend payment. During the year ended 31 December 2013 the 
Company paid dividends of £20,000,000 (£0.20 per share).
2014) 2013)
Dividends per share £000) £000)
A ordinary shares; £nil per share (2013: £0.20) -) 12,300)
B ordinary shares; £nil per share (2013: £0.20) -) 7,211)
C ordinary shares; £nil per share (2013: £0.20) -) 409)
D shares; £nil per share (2013: £nil) -) -)
Exit shares; £nil per share (2013: £nil) -) -)
-) 19,920)
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
11 Auditors’ remuneration 
Auditors’ remuneration was paid by FDM Group Limited in both the current and prior year and no recharge was made 
to the Company. FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
120
Directors Ivan Martin Non-Executive Chairman
Roderick Flavell Chief Executive Officer
Sheila Flavell Chief Operating Officer
Michael McLaren Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Brown Group Commercial Director
Jonathan Brooks Non-Executive Director
Peter Whiting Non-Executive Director
Robin Taylor Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary Jonathan Mark Heather
Registered office 3rd Floor
Cottons Centre
Cottons Lane
London
SE1 2QG
Independent Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
7 More London Riverside
London
SE12RT
Bankers HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
London
E14 5HQ
Registrars Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Stock brokers Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Legal advisors Taylor Wessing LLP
5 New Street Square
London  
EC4A 3TW
                                        
Financial PR advisors Weber Shandwick
No 2 Waterhouse Square
140 High Holborn
London
EC1N 2AE
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
121
Notes FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
122
Notes FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
123
Notes FDM Group
3rd Floor, Cottons Centre, Cottons Lane, London SE1 2QG
Tel: +44 (0) 20 3056 8240
Fax: +44 (0) 870 757 7634
Email: enquiries@fdmgroup.com
fdmgroup.com
UK 
IRELAND
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
LUXEMBOURG
SOUTH AFRICA
USA
CANADA
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
CHINA
