 Annual Report 2013 1
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Contents
Overview
Financial Highlights 2
Understanding Fenner 3
Directors’ Report: Business Review 
Chairman’s Statement 5
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 6
Key Performance Indicators 11
Divisional Review: 
    Engineered Conveyor Solutions 13
    Advanced Engineered Products 17
Risk Management 21
Principal Risks 22
Group Finance Director’s Review 23
Directors’ Report: Governance 
The Board 27
Corporate Governance 29
    Audit Committee Report 35
Other Statutory Information 37
Directors’ Report: Remuneration 
Board Remuneration Report:
    Chairman of the Remuneration 
    Committee’s Statement 40
    Remuneration Policy Report 41
    Annual Remuneration Report 44
Corporate Responsibility 49
Independent Auditors’ Report - Group 56
Group Financial Statements 57
Independent Auditors’ Report - Company 97
Company Financial Statements 98
Five Year Summary of the Group 104
Annual General Meeting 105
Dividend Information 105
Advisors 105
Financial Calendar 105
Forward-looking statements
Certain statements contained in this Report, in
particular the Outlook statement, constitute forward-
looking statements. Such forward-looking statements
involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may
cause the actual results, performance or achievements
of Fenner, or industry results, to be materially different
from any future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others,
exchange rates, growth in the commodity markets,
general economic conditions and the business
environment.
For more information about Fenner 
and our divisions please visit
www.fenner .com 2
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Overview
Revenue Underlying
operating profit
1
Underlying earnings
per share
2 3
1 Underlying operating profit is before amortisation of intangible assets acquired
2 Underlying profit before taxation and underlying earnings per share are before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and notional interest
3 Underlying earnings per share is based on the basic weighted average number of shares in issue
£820.6m
2012: £830.6m 2012: £118.8m
30.1p
2012: 36.1p
Profit before 
taxation
£67.9m
2012: £88.6m
Underlying profit
before taxation
2
Dividend per
share
11.25p
2012: 10.5p
£86.9m
2012: £103.9m
£101.5m
Net cash from
operations
2012: £127.1m
£126.5m
“Our performance throughout the year reflects the strength and
resilience of the businesses we have built, with AEP achieving record
annual revenues and profit.The first half of the financial year saw a
robust response by both ECS and AEP to difficult trading conditions in
certain key markets. Our financial performance recovered strongly in the
second half of the year as conditions showed some signs of improvement.
Fenner is well positioned as we enter our 2014 financial year, with the
benefit of the investments made in both divisions over recent years, a
strong financial position and a mixed but generally improving global
economic environment. Overall, we continue to expect that the current
financial year will see a return to growth.”
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 3
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview
Understanding Fenner
UNDERSTANDING FENNER
Fenner is a world leader in reinforced polymer technology
Our vision is to be respected as the leading global provider of local
engineered solutions for performance-critical applications
Our strategy is to increase market share and target new value-added
product areas to create a strong, growing and resilient company for
the coming decades
 
Structure
Investment case
Leading competitive
positions in markets
with attractive long-
term growth
fundamentals
Our strategy to continue
investing in markets
such as electricity
generation, steel and
copper production and
oil & gas enables
growth and enhances
resilience.
Business resilience
derived from a high
level of aftermarket
products and services
Fenner is continuing to
invest to increase the
proportion of revenues
derived from the
aftermarket and the
Group has become
progressively more
resilient with each
economic cycle.
Global footprint with
increasing focus on
emerging economies
Fenner operates on
every continent in the
world and, as the world
economy evolves and
grows, our strategy is to
increase investment in
emerging economies.
Established track
record of growth in
revenue, earnings and
dividends
Despite the difficult
market conditions in
2013, Fenner has
significantly increased
revenue and earnings
over the last five years
and has continued to
increase dividends paid
to shareholders.
A strong balance sheet
and strong cash flow
which fund continuing
organic and acquisitive
investment
High rates of cash
conversion fund the
Group’s investment
programmes which, in
turn, develop further
cash flows. The balance
sheet is further
strengthened by long-
term debt maturity.
Fenner PLC, which is headquartered in East Yorkshire and is quoted on the London Stock Exchange, has two
divisions: ECS, a recognised leader in the global conveying market; and AEP, a provider of engineering solutions
using advanced polymeric materials.
Advanced Engineered Products (“AEP”)
Engineered Conveyor Solutions (“ECS”) 4
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
ECS AEP
33%
67%      
£820.6m
43%
      57%
£101.5m
ECS AEP
Revenue Underlying operating profit* Underlying earnings per share
Pence
Year
0
8
16
24
32
40
28.1
11
17.9
10
12.8
09
36.1
30.1
12 13
Revenue by destination (as a percentage of Group revenue)
Five year record
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Over period 
1
Revenue (£m) 499.4 552.5 718.3 830.6 820.6 +13.2% 
2
Underlying operating profit (£m) 41.3 57.0 91.4 118.8 101.5 +25.2% 
2
Underlying operating margin 8.3% 10.3% 12.7% 14.3% 12.4% +4.1 pcp
Underlying profit before taxation (£m) 31.1 46.3 80.2 103.9 86.9
Profit before taxation (£m) 5.6 37.2 69.6 88.6 67.9
Return on gross capital employed 10.9% 13.5% 20.3% 24.0% 18.9% +8.0 pcp
Underlying earnings per share 12.8p 17.9p 28.1p 36.1p 30.1p +23.8% 
2
Dividend per share 6.6p 7.2p 8.0p 10.5p 11.25p +14.3% 
2
Summary financials
Worldwide presence
Americas - £385m (47%) EMEA - £170m (21%) Asia Pacific - £266m (32%)
Principal 
markets
USA
Canada
Chile
Principal 
markets
Western Europe
Africa
Middle East
Principal 
markets
Australia
China
India
1  The period relates to 2009 to 2013.  2  Compound annual growth rates (“CAGR”).
*% excludes unallocated corporate costs 5
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Dear Shareholder
The overall result for the year was, in terms of
revenue, operating profit and earnings, the
second highest achieved by the Group and
was in line with the Board’s expectations at
the mid-point of the year. This was achieved in
the context of a challenging operating
environment in the first half of the year and
improving trading conditions during the
second half in most of our regions of
operation. 
During the second half of the year, there was an
especially strong performance by AEP, assisted
by a successful acquisition programme such
that, for the year as a whole, AEP achieved
record revenue and underlying operating profit.
A further highlight of the year was the
completion of the capacity expansion at our
Kwinana facility in Western Australia. Fenner
serves most of the lowest cost producers of
iron ore in the world, many of whom are
located in Australia, and we believe that, over
the life of this facility, it will generate
significant returns for shareholders. 
A full review of the Group’s performance
during the year and outlook is set out on
pages 6 to 26.
People
I would like to take this opportunity to express
my sincere thanks to all of our employees
around the world for their commitment and
dedication; Fenner can only succeed because
it has strong, dedicated and committed
employees. The fact that the Group achieved
its second highest results during difficult
trading conditions is a credit to our
employees’ hard work and determination. 
David Buttfield retired from the Board at the
AGM in January 2013 after serving 10 years as
a non-executive director. I would like to thank
David both personally and on behalf of the
Board and the Company for his valuable
contribution, knowledge, guidance and
professionalism. He has been a valuable and
trusted member of the Board and we wish
him a long and happy retirement.
I am pleased to confirm that during the year
both Alan Wood and John Sheldrick accepted
a second three year term as non-executive
directors. They both have a strong track
record in FTSE companies and vast
knowledge of the challenges faced by
international engineering businesses. They
have skills that are complementary to the
other Board members and continue to be
valued and trusted members of the Board.
Governance
We believe in behaving ethically and openly and
we adhere to and support the UK Corporate
Governance Code. The Board's commitment
to high standards of corporate governance
continues to be a driver for the success of the
business and underpins how we expect our
businesses to behave. During the year, the
Board considered the impact of the BIS
proposals on remuneration reporting, reviewed
the changes to the UK Corporate Governance
Code and finalised the external Board
evaluation process. The Board believes in
engaging with shareholders and meetings were
held during the year with our major
shareholders to discuss any governance
concerns or issues they might have. To ensure
the Board maintains a clear understanding of
Fenner’s business drivers and issues, it also has
regular contact with the management teams
and visits Group operations during the year . 
Corporate responsibility
Fenner believes that proper business conduct
requires the application of the highest
standards of health and safety to ensure safe
working conditions for our employees, a
respect for the environment in which we work,
an awareness of the environmental issues
faced by the Group and a commitment to
behave with integrity at all times. We believe
that we have a responsibility to be a good
neighbour and employer, providing a positive
influence in our communities. The Group
recognises that these values help to further
enhance the sustainability of our business.
Our approach to health and safety
management is enshrined in our Group Health
& Safety Management System Framework,
which is based on the principles of continuous
improvement and local accountability. Its
implementation is supported by a global
assurance process. Concern for the Group’s
impact on the environment is a fundamental
aspect of our business strategy; we recognise
this as a major factor in ensuring a
sustainable future. The key principles of
fairness, honesty and integrity are core to our
Code of Business Conduct. All employees are
required to apply these business standards in
their dealings with colleagues, business
partners and third parties alike.
Shareholder value and dividend
The Board is committed to the generation of
long-term value for Fenner shareholders and,
in order to achieve this, will continue to invest
in the development of both ECS and AEP. 
Acquisitions have always been an important
part of the Fenner growth strategy. During the
year, we acquired four businesses, financed
out of internally generated cash flow. These
acquisitions have so far produced an aggregate
return well ahead of expectations and we see
exciting potential for their future growth. The
Board will support the making of further
acquisitions where they will allow the Group
to enter new territories or acquire new
technology more expediently than could be
done organically and providing that they are
expected to generate value for shareholders. 
The Board believes that an important
component of shareholder value is the dividend
paid to the Company’s shareholders. In
recognition of the Group’s prospects and its
strong financial position, the Board is
recommending an increased final dividend of
7.5p per share (2012: 7.0p), which gives a total
dividend for the year of 11.25p (2012: 10.5p), an
increase of 7%.
The final dividend will be voted on by
shareholders at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting to be held on 15 January 2014, to
which I look forward to welcoming you.
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
13 November 2013
Further information on Corporate
Responsibility can be found on
pages 49 to 55
Further information on Corporate
Governance can be found 
on pages 29 to 36
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
CHAIRMAN’S   
STATEMENT
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
Focusing on delivering value to shareholders. 6
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Dear Shareholder
In our financial year to 31 August 2013,
revenue was £820.6m (2012: £830.6m),
underlying operating profit was £101.5m
(2012: £118.8m), underlying profit before
taxation was £86.9m (2012: £103.9m) and
underlying earnings per share was 30.1p
(2012: 36.1p). 
Our performance throughout the year reflects
the strength and resilience of the businesses
we have built, with AEP achieving record
annual revenues and profit. The first half of
the financial year saw a robust response by
both ECS and AEP to difficult trading
conditions in certain key markets. As set out
in the table below, our financial performance
recovered strongly in the second half of the
year as conditions showed some signs of
improvement. 
During the year, we invested £90m in the
future of the Group, with capital expenditure
of £27.3m and £62.5m spent on acquisitions.
In addition to investing in our business, strong
cash generation was also a feature of the
year. Net cash from operations was £126.5m,
representing 125% of underlying operating
profit and, despite our investment
programme, net debt at the year end increased
only moderately to £121.1m (2012: £97.7m). 
Economic background
While the slow recovery in global growth
continued throughout the year under review,
economic conditions during 2013 were affected
by lower than expected growth in emerging
economies. In China, which is the principal
global driver of commodity demand, weaker
trade and soft manufacturing activity pulled
economic growth rates slightly below
expectations, creating uncertainty over
commodity demand. However, with
employment and income remaining resilient,
the Chinese government had room to continue
structural reform and, as a result, commodity
volumes key to Fenner continued to grow. 
Current global economic forecasts for 2014
are positive, showing stronger growth as
advanced economies continue to recover,
supporting growth in the export driven
emerging economies. Current 2014 growth
forecasts have improved to 2.0% for advanced
economies and 5.1% for emerging and
developing economies (IMF World Economic
Outlook, October 2013). 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER’S REVIEW
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
2012 2013
Summary of results and performance
1H 2H FY 1H 2H FY
Revenue (£m)
ECS 295.0 298.4 593.4 265.7 284.1 549.8
AEP 117.0 120.2 237.2 125.6 145.2 270.8
Fenner 412.0 418.6 830.6 391.3 429.3 820.6
Underlying operating profit (£m)
ECS 39.8 44.6 84.4 28.6 34.4 63.0
AEP 20.5 23.1 43.6 19.1 27.7 46.8
Corporate (4.6) (4.6) (9.2) (4.4) (3.9) (8.3)
Fenner 55.7 63.1 118.8 43.3 58.2 101.5
Underlying operating margin
ECS 13.5% 14.9% 14.2% 10.8% 12.1% 11.5%
AEP 17.5% 19.2% 18.4% 15.2% 19.1% 17.3%
Fenner 13.5% 15.1% 14.3% 11.1% 13.6% 12.4%
Fenner (£m)
Underlying profit before taxation 48.1 55.8 103.9 35.8 51.1 86.9
Net cash from operations 43.4 83.7 127.1 38.1 88.4 126.5
A solid performance in challenging conditions
demonstrates the strength of Fenner’s businesses. Engineered Conveyor Solutions
In 2013, ECS generated revenue of £549.8m
(2012: £593.4m) and underlying operating
profit of £63.0m (2012: £84.4m). As in previous
years, the largest region by revenue was the
Americas, principally the USA, which
accounted for 42% of the division’s revenue
(2012: 44%), followed by Asia Pacific,
principally Australia, with 41% (2012: 38%).
ECS’s results for the year were below those of
the record achieved in 2012 as the mining
industries in the USA and then subsequently in
Australia saw markedly weaker trading
environments than in recent years, with lower
commodity prices impacting sentiment
amongst ECS’s customers. In the face of lower
demand for our conveyor belting and related
services, we acted promptly to reduce manned
capacity and overhead costs. However, by the
end of the year, ECS’s trading conditions in the
USA had shown some signs of recovery and, in
Australia, conditions appeared to be
stabilising. In other regions, demand was
generally stronger throughout the year.
Americas
The USA is the largest market for ECS. In the
last quarter of the 2012 financial year, we saw
markedly lower order intake as exceptionally
low prices for natural gas caused some short-
term switching away from coal as a source of
energy for electricity generation. Overall
demand for electricity also reduced due to
economic uncertainty and subsequent milder
winter weather.
ECS’s order intake started to show some
improvement from the start of 2013 as natural
gas prices rose and maintained levels above
those at which key US coal producing areas
regained their competitiveness in the supply
of fuel for power generation. The recovery in
demand for coal for use in power generation
was assisted by generally improving economic
conditions across the USA.
Against this background, ECS’s financial
performance in the USA in 2013 was behind
the exceptional result achieved in 2012 but,
with the recovering trading conditions, relative
performance improved as the year
progressed. Measures taken to reduce costs
helped to offset the impact on operating
margins from lower volumes.
Our business in Chile, which is focused on the
buoyant copper industry, performed well and
continued to develop; we now have over 150
service engineers in place. With the
expectation of continued further growth in
global demand for copper, we see considerable
potential for this region in the future. 
Asia Pacific
ECS’s business in Asia Pacific is
predominantly located in Australia, where
ECS’s customers are some of the largest and
lowest cost producers of thermal coal,
metallurgical coal and iron ore.  
In Australia, the first quarter of the financial
year saw a continuation of the strong trading
environment from the previous year. However,
from the second quarter onwards, prices of
iron ore and coal began to fall. Although
volumes, particularly of iron ore, remained
strong, these price falls reduced profitability
and damaged the sentiment of our mining
customers who responded by seeking to
reduce their operating costs and expenditure. 
The immediate impact on our ECS business
was a reduction in demand for our products as
miners deferred planned maintenance such as
belt renewals, even though this carried with it
the increased risk of failures at their facilities.
There was a less pronounced fall in demand
for our services as miners increasingly sought
to “make do and mend”, which helped to
maintain the overall performance of our
business at this time, endorsing our focus on
the aftermarket.
As the year progressed, we increasingly
worked with our mining customers to help
them achieve the cost reductions needed to
enable them to operate profitably in a lower
price environment. This included, for example,
value engineering belt for less demanding
applications. As part of this process and in
common with other suppliers, we also agreed
to certain price reductions, the impact of
which amounted to low, single digit
percentages across the Australian business
as a whole, which we believe were appropriate
in the exceptional market conditions in order
to maintain our market leading position in the
Australian mining industry. Through careful
management of our own costs, we were able
to reduce the impact of these price reductions
on our own financial performance.
Despite the commodity price falls, for most of
the year, the volume of iron ore and coal
mined in Australia continued to grow. Our
products and services are critical to miners’
ability to ship the material extracted. By the
end of the financial year, there was some
cautious resumption of expenditures deferred
from earlier on in the year. 
In November 2012, we acquired Australian
Conveyor Engineering (“ACE”). Services and
non-belt products are important parts of our
business in Australia, accounting for around
one-half of revenue, and this acquisition has
increased our ability to provide our customers
in Australia with a complete service offering. 
We successfully commissioned the expansion
of our Kwinana plant in Western Australia,
which is described in more detail on page 16.
We have continued to develop our presence in
the growth economies of India and China. In
India, coal mining continues to grow, although
at a slower rate than some previous
projections. In China, the coal market has
been characterised by excess supply and
falling coal prices which has led to many mine
closures. In both countries, the market for
belting is competitive, with a large number of
local manufacturers producing low quality
belt with a considerable emphasis on price
rather than the belt’s performance
characteristics. We have been successful in
maintaining and extending our position as a
7
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
ECS in new markets
As a global provider of locally engineered solutions,
ECS supports its customers wherever they are,
often opening a local service branch to support the
installation and maintenance of conveyor systems,
particularly the belt. As well as providing a base for
skilled technicians and their equipment, stocks of
frequently requested belting and other components
are held. ECS’s recent expansion into new markets
has included the opening of branches in Chile,
Dubai, Morocco and Ghana.
CASE STUDY
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued supplier of high-performance belt for certain
critical applications.
Europe, Middle East & Africa
Overall, the outcome for the year was very
pleasing, with revenue from new customers
and markets offsetting declines in our more
traditional markets and with margins showing
a noticeable improvement.
We experienced lower volumes in western and
southern European markets, caused by the
continuing decline of coal mining in these
regions and generally unfavourable conditions
in the construction industry. These were offset
by progress in export markets, particularly in
Africa and the Middle East, which was
supported by the opening of new service units
in Dubai and Ghana. 
In southern Africa, ECS continued to supply
solid woven belt to the domestic coal mining
industry. Progress was also made in
increasing sales of steel cord belt to iron ore
mines and expanding the service offering.
A principal event of the year was the
successful commissioning of the steel cord
belt plant in the Netherlands. This greatly
enhances our ability to serve customers
outside our core markets of the USA and
Australia with a full range of heavyweight
belts.
Advanced Engineered Products
In 2013, AEP generated record results with
revenue of £270.8m (2012: £237.2m) and
underlying operating profit of £46.8m (2012:
£43.6m). 
A particular feature of the year’s result is that
customers in the oil & gas and medical
industries accounted for 40% of AEP’s revenue
(2012: 33%); we believe that these industries
offer superior growth and margin opportunities
and we will continue to invest in them.
The full year result reflects contrasting
performances between the first and second
halves of the year. The first half of the year
saw general economic concerns in the USA,
the division’s principal market. The US
government’s fiscal position and the overall
pace of economic recovery led to channel
destocking amongst AEP’s distributors and
end-user customers. This resulted in a half
year financial result which was behind that
achieved in the first half of 2012. 
The division saw an improvement in trading
conditions during the second half of the year
as the economic outlook in the USA generally
improved. When combined with measures
taken to strengthen the business, this led to a
much improved financial performance.
Underlying operating profit for the second half
was a record £27.7m, compared to £19.1m in
the first half. The underlying operating margin
in the second half was 19.1%.
At the beginning of the year, AEP made three
acquisitions, all of which have been
successfully integrated and have performed
ahead of our expectations.
AEP is organised into three product groups:
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies;
Precision Polymers; and Solesis Medical. 
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies
(“FAST”) designs and manufactures
performance-critical seals for original
equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and for
aftermarket applications in the oil & gas,
construction and mining equipment and other
industries.
During the first half of the year, there was
reduced demand from customers in the oil &
gas industry, particularly as the drilling of
conventional gas wells was reduced by lower
gas prices. In addition, there was reduced
demand for Hallite’s seals from OEMs located
in the USA, partly reflecting conditions in
export markets. Trading subsequently
recovered, particularly in relation to the oil &
gas industry, and FAST made a significant
contribution to the improvement in AEP’s
financial results in the second half of the year.
The acquisition of Norwegian Seals has given
us access to additional subsea oil and gas
technology and, together with our existing
presence in the USA and Singapore, extends
our coverage of subsea customers globally.
We acquired American Industrial Plastics to
extend our precision machining capabilities to
serve both the oil & gas and medical device
markets.
Precision Polymers
Precision Polymers comprises: Fenner
Precision, which supplies bespoke belts and
similar components for office equipment;
Fenner Drives, which supplies belts and
related components for power transmission
applications; James Dawson, which
manufactures high performance hoses for
heavy duty diesel engines; and Mandals,
which was acquired in September 2012 and
which manufactures lay-flat hoses for
applications including “fracking”. 
Precision Polymers generated revenue and
operating profit which were appreciably ahead
of the previous year. Mandals had a
particularly successful year, with a significant
increase in demand from oilfield operators for
hoses for use in fracking applications in the
USA and Canada. The industry is switching
from rigid pipes to lay-flat hoses, which offer
considerable advantages in terms of ease of
Further information on ECS is set out in the
Divisional Review on pages 13 to 16
8
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Renewable Energy - Crux Seals
Fenner Precision, in partnership with Crux
Products Limited, is using its fabrication
skills and polymer know-how to
manufacture fabric reinforced polymer
grout and tongue seals for oil and gas rigs
and wind energy structures in offshore wind
farms. Designed to work in the hostile
undersea environment of the North Sea,
these seals are a key part of the passive
systems used to install offshore wind
turbine masts, contrasting favourably with
the older, inflatable, active systems. The
competitive advantages of these grout and
tongue seals are proven by their use in the
two largest offshore wind farms operating
in the world: Greater Gabbard (opened in
August 2013) and the London Array.  
CASE STUDY transportation and laying and in which field
Mandals is a market leader. As a result,
Mandals achieved a financial outcome for the
year well ahead of expectations at the time it
was acquired and we have commenced
expansion of Mandals’ plant in Norway to
meet future demand.
Fenner Precision and Fenner Drives both
experienced soft demand for their products
for most of the year, reflecting conditions
amongst their OEM customers, although
some improvement was apparent in the later
months. James Dawson saw lower demand
for hoses used in large diesel engines for use
in applications such as mining equipment,
although this situation improved through the
second half. 
Solesis Medical
Solesis Medical comprises: Secant Medical,
which manufactures textile components for
permanently implanted medical devices; and
Xeridiem, which manufactures complete,
single use disposable devices, mainly used for
enteral feeding. Both businesses are located
in the USA and primarily sell to customers
located there.
We believe that both businesses serve
segments of the medical market which, with
progressively ageing and sedentary
populations in the USA and other developed
nations, are likely to offer superior growth. 
Secant is continuing to develop a strong
pipeline of products which are expected to
reach the market in the next few years. A
number of existing products are currently
being marketed and are expected to achieve
higher volumes in the future. However,
Secant’s performance in 2013 was impacted
by a customer’s vertical integration of a
production process and another customer
facing a significant delay in obtaining Federal
Drugs Administration approval. 
Xeridiem saw a much improved financial
performance as revenues from device sales
and development activities increased.
Further information on AEP is set out in the
Divisional Review on pages 17 to 20
9
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Objectives
We expect to maintain capital
expenditure in excess of depreciation
We will continue to invest in the
Group’s human capital and
knowledge base
We will continue to finance the Group
using retained earnings and long-
term borrowings
Strategic goals
In last year’s Annual Report, I identified our strategy as being to increase market share and target new value added product areas to create
a strong, growing and resilient company for the coming decades.
The table below sets out progress against our strategic goals and our aims for the near future.
Examples of what we have done Examples of what we expect
to do in the future
Strong
Growing
Maximise organic and
acquired growth
Increase focus on faster
growing emerging markets
Identify fast growing
applications
We have positioned the Group for further
growth in emerging markets
ECS has opened service centres in Chile,
Dubai, Morocco and Ghana
AEP has successfully acquired and
integrated businesses focused on the oil
& gas industry
ECS is targeting emerging
economies in South America and
Africa
AEP will pursue opportunities
outside its traditional US markets
AEP sees the oil & gas and medical
industries as areas for further
growth
We have strengthened the management
teams in AEP and ECS
We have strengthened and grown our
asset base 
We have introduced more suitable pension
arrangements in the UK
Our borrowings are long-term and
financial covenants are robust
Invest in human capital
Extend intellectual property
inventory
Maintain and improve
business infrastructure
Sustain a secure balance
sheet
Resilient
Performance-critical
Aftermarket focus
Balanced portfolio
Exposure to long-term
growth markets
We have continued to diversify our ECS
business away from its traditional reliance
on belting for thermal coal 
ECS has developed a more comprehensive
service offering than any other major
belting group
AEP’s positioning with performance-
critical products, external certifications
and logistical support protect its
relationships with customers
ECS will continue to increase its
service offerings to customers in
existing and new markets
We will use AEP’s expertise to
identify and develop new products
Where appropriate, we will use
acquisitions to increase our
exposure to long-term growth
markets 
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 10
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Health and safety
The Group has an overriding commitment to
provide a safe and secure working
environment which extends beyond our
employees to employees of other companies
working on our behalf as well as to
customers, visitors and neighbours who may
be affected by our activities. Accordingly, I
would like to extend my thanks to all those
involved in reducing the lost time incident
frequency rate (“LTIFR”) by 37% to 1.08
incidents for every 200,000 hours worked and
specifically employees on our Houston sites
who passed 1,000,000 hours without incident
in August.
Fenner promotes health and safety as a key
element in the culture of each of its
operations. The Health & Safety Management
System Framework (“The Framework”)
provides structure and guidance to all
operations, irrespective of size, to deliver
continuous improvement within our unique
culture of autonomy with accountability. 
Providing services at customer facilities is a
growing part of our business. Often these
customers demand sound health and safety
management systems. For such customers,
The Framework, our health and safety
management systems and the associated
training are a significant and unique selling
proposition.
Employees
All our operations have processes that require
high levels of proficiency and technical
expertise. Some of those skills are not
available in the general workforce in every
region, therefore, we have continued with our
commitment to training and development. In
our ECS operations, employee numbers were
adjusted to meet reduced demand; restricting
shift patterns and reducing overtime enable
us to retain key skills and to allow for
improvements in demand.
Fenner continues to benefit from a skilled and
committed workforce in both our acquired and
existing operations. I acknowledge the
importance of our employees’ contribution to
the performance of the Group. Productivity
and, in the service operation the utilisation of
our employees, are key factors to Fenner’s
success. 
Customers and suppliers
From large multinational oil, gas and mining
companies to the smallest medical start-up,
across thousands of customers, each Group
operation ensures it is meeting its customers’
expectations. Experienced sales teams
maintain close contact with customers,
providing feedback on those expectations and
ensuring satisfactory performance. These
qualitative indicators are complemented by
quantitative measurements including
customer surveys and “on time in full”
performance. While some operations are
dependent on a small number of customers,
Fenner’s largest customer accounts for less
than 6% of revenue. 
Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from
thousands of tonnes of rubber compound to a
few hundred grammes of biomaterials, so our
operations work closely with selected
suppliers to ensure that our customers
benefit from the latest technical
developments in materials and processes.
The majority of these relationships are in the
normal course of business, ensuring quality,
continuity of supply and competitive
commercial terms. Where appropriate, and
usually relating to technical developments,
relationships are formally documented. In
2013, most Fenner operations saw stable
material prices and adequate availability.
Close cooperation with established suppliers
and the active development of new sources
has ensured, and continues to ensure,
continuity of supply, consistent quality and
technical leadership.
Outlook
Fenner is well positioned as we enter our
2014 financial year, with the benefit of the
investments made in both divisions over
recent years, a strong financial position and a
mixed but generally improving global
economic environment.
Against a background of increasing global
mineral extraction tonnages, sentiment
amongst our mining customers in Australia
and the USA is gradually improving as they
seek to optimise the operating efficiency of
their existing installed capacity, assisted in
the case of Australia by a weaker currency. As
a supplier of mining consumables and
services, our ECS division expects to benefit
from the industry’s cautious return to more
normal maintenance and replacement
practices.
As we continue with the strategic
development of our ECS division towards
emerging markets and hard rock mining, we
expect to make further progress in Latin
America, Africa and the Middle East.
AEP entered the 2014 financial year with a
positive trading momentum in all of its
businesses, assisted by signs of continued,
steady economic improvement in the USA. We
have targeted the oil & gas and medical
markets as offering growth opportunities and
AEP’s businesses serving these segments
remain well positioned to out-perform. 
We intend to continue to invest in the future of
the Group. Human capital and knowledge are
vital to our success, particularly in AEP and
higher revenue investment in these areas is
planned. We also expect capital expenditure in
2014 to be slightly ahead of 2013. We will
pursue value-accretive acquisition
opportunities, which we see as being more
likely in AEP. 
Overall, we continue to expect that the current
financial year will see a return to growth.
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
13 November 2013
More information on health, safety and
environmental matters and our employees
can be found on  pages 49 to 54 11
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Underlying operating profit
Although underlying operating profit was below the level achieved in
2012, it was the second highest in the Group’s history. The outcome
for 2013 reflected, in particular, the contributions made by both the
improved trading performance in the second half of the year and
businesses acquired during the year . 
Underlying earnings per share, which was also lower than 2012, was
in line with the Board’s expectations at the time of the Group’s half
year results.
Net debt rose during the year by £23.4m, reflecting expenditure on
fixed assets (£27.3m) and acquisitions (£62.5m). Net debt/EBITDA
also rose as EBITDA reduced. Financial covenants require that net
debt to adjusted EBITDA (being reported EBITDA adjusted for certain
items including, inter alia, acquisitions and non-cash items) is less
than 3.5 times. 
Interest cover fell slightly as EBITDA reduced in the year . Financial
covenants require that adjusted EBITDA must be at least 3 times net
interest payable. As such, the Group remains very comfortably ahead
of the covenanted level of interest cover .
Underlying earnings per share
Net debt/EBITDA EBITDA interest cover
Our key performance indicators (“KPIs”), which include financial and non-financial
measures, enable the Board to monitor performance. They have been selected as
being important to the success of the Group in delivering its strategic objectives.
KEY PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
£m
Year
0
30
60
90
120
150
91.4
11
57.0
10
41.3
09
118.8
12
101.5
13
Pence
Year
0
8
16
24
32
40
28.1
11
17.9
10
12.8
09
36.1
12
30.1
13
Year
0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
0.9
11
1.5
10
2.9
09
0.7
12
0.9
13
Times
Year
0
3
6
9
12
9.9
11
7.0
10
5.5
09
9.4
12
8.8
13
Times
Definition: Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired
and exceptional items.
Definition: Net debt less cash and cash equivalents, divided by operating
profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment charges and exceptional
items.
Definition: Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment
charges and exceptional items, divided by net interest payable on bank
overdrafts and loans, other loans and bank deposits.
Definition: Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent before
amortisation of intangible assets acquired, exceptional items and notional
interest, divided by the basic weighted average number of shares in issue and
ranking for dividend.
Directors’ Report Business Review 12
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Sales per employee Safety performance
Return on gross capital employed Capital expenditure/depreciation
£’000
Year
0
40
80
120
160
200
159.1
11
142.9
10
136.7
09
167.3
155.7
12 13
LTIs LTIFR
LTIs Year LTIFR
0
30
60
90
120
150
0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
75
68
82 81
11 10 09 12 13
58
%
Year
0
6
12
18
24
30
20.3
11
13.5
10
10.9
09
24.0
12
18.9
13
Times
Year
0.0
0.6
1.2
1.8
2.4
3.0
0.8
11
0.6
10
2.3
09
1.4
12
1.2
13
Despite measures taken by ECS in the USA and Australia to reduce
headcount, sales per employee fell during the year, principally
reflecting lower Group revenue. Certain skilled employees were
retained in anticipation of future growth. 
The Group achieved an outstanding result with significant falls in
both LTIs and the LTIFR. The Group will seek to maintain its
improving trend in the safety performance.
The return on gross capital employed was lower than 2012 principally
due to lower underlying operating profit, following the record
performance in 2012.
The return achieved is well in excess of the Group’s estimated cost of
capital.
This is one measure of the extent to which we are investing in
growing the Group’s asset base. Capital expenditure remained
comfortably in excess of depreciation.
Definition: Underlying operating profit divided by gross capital employed,
being the average of the opening and closing non-current assets (excluding
deferred tax and derivative financial instruments), inventories, trade and
other receivables and trade and other payables.
Definition: Capital expenditure per the cash flow statement divided by
depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of intangible assets
acquired).
Definition: Total annual third party revenue at constant exchange rates
divided by the average number of employees.
Definition: Lost Time Incidents (“LTIs”): the number of incidents connected
with work which results in the injured person being away from work, not
including the day of the incident. LTIFR: LTIs per 200,000 man-hours. 13
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Report Business Review
Divisional Review
ENGINEERED 
CONVEYOR SOLUTIONS
ECS offers a unique, comprehensive suite of products
and services which serve the conveying needs of mining,
power generation and bulk handling markets.
SERVICE
REPLACEMENT
BELT
NEW CUSTOMER 
CAPACITY
Mine expansions
New mines
Maintain / Manage
Install / Replace
Emergency repair
Monitor conveyor condition
Detect conveyor faults
£550m Revenue 67% of Fenner
64%
21%
15%
Worn out
Damaged
Typical belt life 
3-5 years
£550m Revenue 67% of Fenner
42%
12%
28%
18%
2013
BULK MATERIALS
Sand, gravel, cement
Construction & 
infrastructure
METALLURGICAL COAL
Underground mining
Ports & coking plants
Steel production
OTHER MINERALS
Iron, copper ores
Hard rock open pit mining
Highly abrasive
Steel & copper production
THERMAL COAL
Underground mining
Ports & power 
stations 
Electricity generation
Revenue analysis 
By markets served
ECS is one of the world’s leading heavyweight conveyor belting suppliers and has the most
comprehensive range of belting products, services and packaged solutions
Demand for ECS products and services is primarily determined by the volume of material extracted
ECS products and services are critical to its customers’ businesses, although conveying represents
only a small proportion of total extraction costs
ECS manufacturing plants are well invested and are strategically located in mining regions with a
long-term future
Over the last five years, ECS has significantly increased revenue, operating profit and operating
margin; during this period, some £196m has been invested in capital expenditure and acquisitions 
Find out more about ECS and its
operations at www.fenner .com
Summarised financial record
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Over period 
1
Revenue (£m) 361.8 389.5 510.7 593.4 549.8 +11.0% 
2
Underlying operating profit (£m) 30.8 40.5 61.1 84.4 63.0 +19.6% 
2
Underlying operating margin 8.5% 10.4% 12.0% 14.2% 11.5% +3.0 pcp
Investment expenditure (£m)
3
65.2 18.7 32.6 42.0 37.6 196.1
1  The period relates to 2009 to 2013.  2  CAGR.  3  Total investment over period (net capital expenditure plus acquisition spend less disposal proceeds).
Revenue analysis 
Replacement belt and service (85%) against new customer capacity (15%) 14
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
ECS business model and value creation
ECS is a recognised leader in the global
conveying market, under the “Fenner”,
“Fenner Dunlop” and “Dunlop”  brand names. 
ECS has developed a comprehensive range of
heavyweight belt products, including ply, solid
woven and steel cord, which it manufactures
in its plants around the world. 
Alongside its traditional expertise in belt
manufacture, ECS has developed a
comprehensive range of conveying services,
including monitoring, maintenance, design
and installation. 
ECS offers commercial arrangements to its
customers that vary from a purely
transactional relationship to a full strategic
partnership. Each type of product or service
within the ECS portfolio provides benefits but
the full value is only realised by the integrated
offer which is optimised to reduce the
customer’s conveyor downtime and total cost
of ownership. Flexible solutions can also be
adopted to respond to a customer’s market
constraints.
Geographic coverage has also been key to
ECS’s development. ECS has particular
strengths in the USA and Australia and
developing positions in Chile, China, India and
southern Africa. More recently, it has
established a presence in north Africa,
Mexico, the Middle East and sub-Saharan
Africa. These have offset revenue declines
from customers in more traditional areas
such as Europe.
ECS is continuing to broaden its product
range, service capabilities and locations to
further improve its global offering of belt
products and services. Service remains a
relatively low proportion of revenue in certain
regions, although this is expected to increase
over time.
Recent acquisitions have brought new
capabilities into ECS which are being rolled
out across the division worldwide. 
Examples of ECS products and services
A typical underground “finger splice” on a
mainline belt which transfers the coal from
the coal face to the surface.
An overland steel cord belt where ECS
partnered with the customer on the design
and selection of products for the whole
project.
A sorting installation handling sand, gravel
and granite. These short belts on a more
arduous application need our premier range
of belting to give superior belt life.
  
     
 
   
  
   
  
    
    
    
   
  
  
   
     
     
      
    
   
  
     
    
 
     
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
        
     
        
   
        
     
 
 
                                 
 
 
                                     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                    
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
 
 
Idlers
Cleaners
Idlers
Drives
Idlers
Cleaners
Idlers
Cleaners
Idlers
Cleaners
Install
Maintain
Manage Belt
Idlers
Cleaners
Pulleys
Drives
Structure
Monitor
Detect
Integrate
Design
24/7
Emergency
Services                             Facilities                                 Components                                            
       Engineering                         Diagnostics 15
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Review of end-markets and business drivers
Strong & Resilient - ECS’s response to market downturns in the USA and Australia
ECS’s businesses in the USA and Australia
each took decisive steps to reduce costs as
trading conditions deteriorated at different
times in 2013.
In the USA, hourly average headcount was
reduced by over 100 people, resulting in
annualised cost savings of £4m. Other cost
reducing initiatives targeted purchasing,
factory and business overheads.
In Australia, overall headcount and other
business costs were reduced. At the same
time, significant amounts of labour were
redeployed from the coal mining areas of
Eastern Australia to the iron-ore producing
areas in Western Australia to meet higher
demand for repair and maintenance
services.
In both countries, skilled employees were
retained in anticipation of recovery in demand.
Prior to the year end, certain manned
capacity in the USA was restored in
anticipation of a recovery in demand for
belting.
Demand for ECS products and services is
chiefly driven by tonnage of material extracted
and consequently consumption of the related
commodity. The three principal commodities
that impact ECS are steel, through its major
feedstocks iron ore and metallurgical coal,
thermal coal and copper. 
During 2013, record steel production in Asia
(principally China which accounts for over
one-half of global production) helped to
underpin demand for iron ore and
metallurgical coal.
As illustrated in the graph, Fenner expects
global production of copper, iron ore and coal
to continue to grow, driven by further
urbanisation of the populations in China and
elsewhere in the developing world, leading to
higher demand for steel and electricity.
Fenner expects worldwide consumption of
thermal coal to increase, of which the
seaborne trade will represent an increasing
share. While coal is the major source of fuel
for power generation in the USA, long-term
declines in consumption are anticipated;
these declines are expected to be more than
offset by increasing demand from China and, to
a lesser extent, India. Environmental legislation
across the world is likely to adversely impact
producers of lower quality coal. 
Fenner expects that these changing patterns
in the demand for, and supply of, commodities
will increasingly favour low-cost producers of
high quality coal and ore, with a significant
proportion located in Australia, where Fenner
is market leader in the supply of belts and
related services. 
Usage of belt is also impacted by reductions
in the quality of ore and increases in
overburden, meaning that, in the future,
larger tonnages of material will have to be
moved for each tonne of commodity produced,
especially copper. 
Fenner believes that mining companies’
increasing focus on cost efficiency will favour
usage of its belts which offer lower life-time
costs and also the outsourcing of conveyor-
related services, which should provide further
opportunities for Fenner.
Summary of results
ECS has grown significantly in recent years;
since 2009, revenue and underlying operating
profit have grown at compound annual rates
of 11.0% and 19.6% respectively and the
underlying operating margin has increased by
3.0 percentage points. These increases, which
include the impact of acquisitions, were
achieved despite the falls in revenue and
underlying operating profit seen in 2013 as
the mining industries in the USA and Australia
saw markedly weaker trading environments. 
In the financial year ended 31 August 2013,
ECS achieved revenue of £549.8m and
underlying operating profit of £63.0m.
In 2013, replacement belts and services
accounted for 85% of revenue, compared with
only 15% attributable to new customer
capacity. The Americas, principally the USA,
was once again the largest region, accounting
for 42% of total revenue (2012: 44%). The coal
sector represented 54% of revenues, slightly
higher than last year. 
The acquisition of Australian Conveyor
Engineering in November 2012 contributed
£18.2m of revenue and £1.6m of underlying
operating profit to the Group’s results for the
year. Movements in foreign exchange,
principally the US and Australian dollars
against sterling, led to reductions in revenue
and operating profit of £1.4m and £0.2m
respectively. On a like-for-like basis, revenue
and underlying operating profit fell by 10%
and 27% respectively.
The underlying operating margin for the year
was 11.5% (2012: 14.2%). The underlying
operating margin was 12.1% in the second
half of the year, compared with 10.8% during
the first half, reflecting the seasonality of the
business and changing trading conditions as
the year progressed.
CASE STUDY
Directors’ Report Business Review
Divisional Review continued
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 09 08 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 96 95 94
Copper Production Copper Forecast
Coal Production Coal Forecast
Iron Ore Forecast Iron Ore Production
Global copper, iron ore and coal production
index (1994=100)
Source : BusinessMonitorInternational 16
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Growing - Completion of Kwinana expansion
On 4 June 2013, four years after the factory
first opened, Fenner Dunlop Australia
officially opened this A$25m expansion to
double the capacity of the Kwinana plant in
Western Australia. The expanded plant now
houses two of the largest and longest
presses to build the biggest and best quality
steel cord belting in the world. It also has
the best rubber calendering and steel cable
tensioning equipment available anywhere in
the world, which all leads to a faster
throughput than was previously considered
possible. The plant produces steel cord belt
and rubber ply belt up to 3200mm wide. It
has an annual capacity of 450,000 square
metres, equating to about 200km of belting,
and includes the most modern technical
testing facility in the southern hemisphere.
This Australian manufacturing plant is
Fenner’s fifteenth global conveyor belt
manufacturing facility and strengthens the
Group’s reputation as a world leader and
innovator in conveyor belt technology.
ECS and the commodity cycle
The great majority of ECS’s revenue is
generated through the supply of consumable
belt products and related services, representing
operational expenditure by its mining and
other customers. Usage of these products and
services is a function of the tonnages of
material extracted and moved; as with similar
consumable products such as truck tyres,
there is an optimum time at which to replace
a belt in order to minimise life-time costs.
Commodity prices do not impact demand for
conveyor products and services directly, but if
commodity prices fall, the resulting adverse
impact on miners’ profits and general sentiment
in the industry may lead users to seek to reduce
short-term cash outflows. One way they can do
this is by delaying the replacement of belts, even
though this is likely to require additional running
repairs and carries the risk of a belt failure
which has the potential to shut down the
user’s facility for a period whilst the failure is
rectified, with possibly significant losses of
production and revenue.  
Later in the cycle, as commodity prices and
sentiment start to improve, mines are more
likely to focus on increasing efficiencies, which
tends to lead to belt replacements returning
towards normal levels and the resumption of
planned maintenance programmes.
The below chart showing the changing
attitude of the mining companies to
operational expenditure (“OPEX”) through the
commodity cycle, illustrates that OPEX is
considerably less volatile than capital
expenditure (“CAPEX”) such as the
construction of new capacity, which accounted
for only 15% of ECS’s revenues.
At the end of the 2013 financial year, the
mining industry in the USA appeared to be
recovering with cautious resumptions in OPEX
leading to ECS seeing an improved order
book, albeit below the levels seen in 2011.
Australia appeared to be behind the USA in
the commodity cycle and, while conditions
have shown some signs of stabilising, mining
companies continue to maintain a tight
control on OPEX.
CASE STUDY
  
     
 
   
  
   
  
    
    
    
   
  
  
   
     
     
      
    
   
  
     
    
 
     
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
        
     
        
   
        
     
Growth CAPEX cancelled/deferred                                 Growth CAPEX resumes                                     CAPEX turns to expansion
 Stable commodity prices
Falling commodity prices                                                    High commodity prices                                               Rising commodity prices
Growth CAPEX cancelled/deferred
OPEX
increases
OPEX
resumes
High
OPEX
Tight OPEX
control
                             
                                 
                                            
       
                          17
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
AEP products are performance-critical with significant design content
Unit prices of AEP’s products are a small proportion of total unit cost
AEP typically has strong positions in chosen market niches which are expected to show
sustained growth over the medium term
AEP has unique and high-end manufacturing expertise and external certifications
AEP provides its customers with timely delivery and customer logistics support
AEP has a consistent record of growing revenue and profit, while achieving attractive
operating margins and returns on capital employed
Find out more about AEP and its
operations at www.fenner .com
ADVANCED 
ENGINEERED PRODUCTS
AEP uses advanced polymeric materials and technical
expertise to provide high value-added solutions to customers’
most challenging engineering problems. 
MINING
Mining equipment
Roof supports
Seals/bushings
3%
Oil & Gas
FLUID POWER
Seals
Industrial
Mobile 
Textiles/seals/hoses
Aerospace
Trucks
TRANSPORTATION
ATMs
Printing
Automation
Belts & rollers
AUTOMATION
Construction equipment
Tile, brick, lumber 
processing equipment
Seals/hoses/belts
CONSTRUCTION
Medical
Alternative energy
Green solutions
Power transmission
Motion control
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL
Seals/belts/rollers/hoses
£271m Revenue 33% of Fenner
28%
12%
7%
13%
20%
AGRICULTURE
5%
5%
7%
2013
56%
16%
28%
EMEA Americas
Asia Pacific
£271m Revenue 33% of Fenner
Revenue analysis By markets served Revenue analysis By destination
Directors’ Report Business Review
Divisional Review continued
Summarised financial record
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Over period 
1
Revenue (£m) 137.6 163.0 207.6 237.2 270.8 +18.4% 
2
Underlying operating profit (£m) 15.8 22.6 38.2 43.6 46.8 +31.2% 
2
Underlying operating margin 11.5% 13.9% 18.4% 18.4% 17.3% +5.8 pcp
Investment expenditure (£m)
3
6.1 8.3 13.5 20.8 47.4 96.1
1  The period relates to 2009 to 2013.  2  CAGR.  3  Total investment over period (net capital expenditure plus acquisition spend less disposal proceeds). 18
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
AEP business model and value creation
Examples of AEP products
The acquisition of Norwegian Seals enhanced
the geographic coverage and technical
capabilities of CDI Energy Products,
particularly for subsea applications such as
the well head pictured above.
Designed for ease of installation and flexibility
in application, Fenner PowerTwist Plus
v-belts outperform traditional fixed length
belts.
Using our polymer knowledge and advanced
assembly techniques, Xeridiem supported the
development of the award winning
PleuraFlow
TM 
active tube clearance system.
AEP’s business model is centred around its
expertise in polymeric materials and its ability
to utilise its expertise to identify and develop
new opportunities. 
Customers are spread across a variety of
end-user segments and geographies where
AEP technology or expertise is profitably
utilised. Expansion into further mission-
critical applications is a key part of AEP
strategy.  
Launch  
• Supply product to launch 
customers 
• Provide additional 
added-value through 
timely delivery and 
customer support 
Development    
• Develop new product 
•  Develop manufacturing 
process using AEP 
manufacturing facilities 
and expertise 
Product roll-out  
• Market new products across 
existing and new customer base 
• Adapt product and service offering 
for customers and opportunities 
in adjacent markets 
Follow up 
• A successful roll-out leads 
to an enlarged customer 
base 
• Exposure to new sub 
segments and industries 
Knowledge  
• AEP market knowledge
• Engineering know-how
• Research 
Identify and assess 
potential new products
•  Does it utilise AEP technology and 
know-how?
•  Is the product performance-critical?
•  Is there an identifiable and growing 
market for the product?
•  Is the product capable of generating 
sufficient margins and return on 
capital?
 
 
                                 
 
 
                                     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                    
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
 
 
                             
                                 
                                            
       
                          19
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Resilient - Transforming high-performance materials 
Relaunched in May 2013 with its own
focused management team and dedicated
facilities, EGC Critical Components designs,
engineers and manufactures thermoplastic
and elastomeric components that make
critical applications work; from small, 3mm
hearing aid parts to large, 2.5m wind
turbine components. Serving industries
including chemical processing, nuclear,
aerospace and defence, semiconductor and
medical equipment, EGC Critical
Components uses its extensive polymer
knowledge with world-class capabilities to
provide innovative, high-performance
custom sealing solutions, wear products
and precision components for pumps,
valves, connectors, filtration and purification
systems. With extensive knowledge of
working with hundreds of plastics,
elastomers and composites and a wide
range of moulding, extrusion and machining
techniques, our experts work closely with
customers from design to final product.
Compliance with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and
OHSAS 18001 underscores commitment to
quality and dedication to health, safety and
the environment.
CASE STUDY
Markets, end-user segments and supply chain
Summary of results
AEP uses its expertise in advanced polymeric
materials and in application design to serve
customers across a variety of industries. In
2013, sales to customers in the oil & gas and
medical industries, which have been identified
by AEP management as offering particular
growth opportunities, accounted for 40% of
AEP’s revenues. Other important industries
served are construction equipment,
automation, transportation and fluid power. 
Many larger OEM customers are served
directly by AEP, often with products designed
to each particular customer’s own
specifications. Certain products may be used
within a variety of different industries; as
these reach the roll-out phase of their
development, they may increasingly access
their end-user through independent
distributors and are normally included as
“general industrial” sales, which in 2013, were
20% of AEP’s total revenues.
As a US-centric business, AEP considers the
single most useful forward indicator of its
trading environment to be US Manufacturing
PMI. As well as the macro-economic climate,
sales by AEP to individual OEM customers are
impacted by conditions in their particular
domestic and export markets; for example,
during the first half of 2013, a general over-
supply of construction equipment in China
contributed to a slow-down in orders from
AEP’s OEM customers in the USA. 
AEP’s business is weighted towards the
Americas, principally the USA, which
accounted for 56% of AEP’s revenues in 2013.
As AEP develops, both organically and
through acquisition, its revenues from
customers in Europe and Asia Pacific are
likely to represent an increasing proportion of
revenues. Much of this development will arise
from opportunities to roll-out products
developed for the USA to wider markets; for
example, many of AEP’s medical products are
more heavily used within populations which
are aging and sedentary, characteristics
which have traditionally been associated with
the USA but which are likely to become more
widespread as global populations become
more affluent and urbanised. However, an
important part of this development will reflect
changes in the industries served by AEP such
as US-based oil service companies delegating
more purchasing decisions to regional offices
in oil producing regions like the North Sea
and South-East Asia. In response, AEP now
has established manufacturing and service
facilities in Norway and Singapore.
AEP’s human capital and knowledge are
crucial parts of its business model and higher
investment is planned in these areas. 
Raw materials typically represent a relatively
small proportion of the price of finished
products, meaning that AEP’s margins are not
especially sensitive to changes in input prices.
The great majority of products sold by AEP
are manufactured in-house, although certain
products, mainly within Precision Polymers,
are sourced from a small number of qualified
third parties. 
AEP has an outstanding record of growing
revenue and operating profit, while at the
same time increasing its operating margin.
In the financial year ended 31 August 2013,
AEP achieved revenue of £270.8m (2012:
£237.2m), an increase of 14.2%. 
Underlying operating profit for the year was
£46.8m (2012: £43.6m), an increase of 7.3%. 
Since 2009, AEP’s revenue and underlying
operating profit have increased at compound
annual rates of 18.4% and 31.2% respectively. 
In 2013, customers in the oil & gas and
medical industries together accounted for
40% of total revenue (2012: 33%); general
industrial customers, including distributors,
accounted for 20% (2012: 25%).
In 2013, acquisitions contributed £45.1m of
revenue and £10.7m of underlying operating
profit. Movements in foreign exchange,
principally the US dollar against sterling, led
to increases in revenue and operating profit of
£2.2m and £0.6m respectively. On a like-for-
like basis, revenue and underlying operating
profit fell by 6% and 18% respectively.
The underlying operating margin for the year
was 17.3% compared with 18.4% in 2012 and
11.5% in 2009. In 2013, the underlying
operating margin was 19.1% in the second
half of the year, compared with 15.2% during
the first half, reflecting an improved
performance as conditions in AEP’s principal
markets recovered.
Directors’ Report Business Review
Divisional Review continued 20
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
AEP organisation
Biomedical textiles.
Single-use 
disposable devices
USA
ADVANCED ENGINEERED PRODUCTS
CHINA, NORWAY,
UK and USA  
 
Precision
Polymers
Engineered belts for power-
transmission and automation.
Hoses for diesel engines and 
oil & gas industries
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS
PRODUCT GROUP
PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND MARKETS
PRINCIPAL LOCATIONS
Sealing solutions for oil
& gas and hydraulic 
fluid power
AUSTRALIA, CHINA, GERMANY, 
NORWAY, SINGAPORE, 
UK and USA
 
Advanced
Sealing Technologies
AEP is organised into three product groups.
Acquired businesses typically retain their
brands and corporate identities, which are
seen as important in maintaining the
business’ presence in its local markets, while
gaining access to Fenner’s technical
expertise, international presence and
financial resources to achieve further growth.  
Strong & Growing - Serving the oil & gas industry CASE STUDY
Based in Norway, Mandals have developed
Superman HVT and Ultraman lay-flat hoses
specially for use in “fracking”. Fracking is a
technique in which water is mixed with sand
and chemicals and the mixture is injected at
high pressure into a wellbore to create small
fractures along which fluids such as natural
gas and oil flow into the well. Made from
extruded polyurethane with circular woven
filament polyester reinforcement, this
ensures very high tensile strength combined
with excellent wear and tear properties. The
hose has high resistance against commonly
used chemicals and excellent abrasion
resistance, making the hose ideal for use in
rugged terrain or in applications where the
strength and abrasion resistance either for
the cover or lining is essential. Flexible lay-
flat hoses offer many advantages over more
inflexible types of hoses or pipes, particularly
in terms of transport and storage volumes,
handling and usage, advantages recognised
in the extraction business in the USA and
around the world. Building on our success in
this and other markets, Mandals have
embarked on a major development to
substantially increase their capacity. 21
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Risk factors
The Fenner Risk Universe explained below
analyses the risks identified into 11 categories
which reflect our business and the
environment in which we operate.
Our strategy is the focal point of all our risk
factors. We define risk as events or situations
which may be damaging to the achievement of
our strategic business objectives.
Group risks (Inherent and Residual) are
measured on a 10 point scale of impact and a
five point scale of likelihood. Our assessment
of impact considers both financial and non-
financial measures. Risk impacts are
continuously monitored, as are their mitigation
and management strategies.
We focus in particular on understanding the
link between cause, risk and effect so that we
correctly identify the risk factor which is best
measured, understood and upon which control
can be best exercised.
Culture and policy
Fenner recognises that effective risk
management is not only essential for
the delivery of strategic objectives,
but that it also improves
performance, decision making and
helps drive sustainable shareholder
value.
The management of risks is a
continuous process at Fenner which
is embraced at all levels from the
Board, Executive Committee and
divisional management to the
operating unit.
Our philosophy on risk is to accept
those risks which enhance value,
provided that those risks are fully
understood and can be managed and
controlled effectively by the Group.
We have robust risk management
and reporting procedures which
allow Fenner to maximise
opportunities, while also restricting
inappropriate activities.
Our risk management process is
driven from Board level, but
significant responsibility is also taken
by operating unit managers and the
risk identification process at Group
and operating unit level is linked to
our strategic planning process.
Directors’ Report Business Review
   Health & Safety
Operations
Purchasing Technology
Selling
  Legal  
    Environment        Socio - economic
            Market                     Strategy  
  Finance
Risks of the Group are considered as a Group-
wide top down exercise which is supported and
validated by an independent assessment at
operating unit level. This produces a
consolidated “Risk Universe” and is our
principal risk management and reporting tool.
Externally facilitated Risk Workshops are run
at each operating unit. These focus on the
activities and strategies of the operating units
and the possible risks that those activities, and
the environment in which the businesses
operate, may generate.
Risk Heat Maps and detailed Risk Sheets are
prepared for each operating unit. These
quantify the risks and allocate responsibility for
their management. Controls for each risk are
identified and the mitigating effect of these
controls is also assessed and recorded. All
controls are monitored and tested to ensure
these are working as stated and are providing
effective mitigations to the risks identified.
We measure both Inherent Risk, before
controls and mitigating actions, and the
resulting Residual Risk, which takes account of
our controls and management strategies.
The operating unit Heat Maps are reviewed at
Group level and their risks are incorporated
into the Group Risk Universe.
A schedule of Principal Risks is produced
which summarises the key risks for reporting
and monitoring at Audit Committee and Board
level.
                                            Identify/Quantify                 Manage/Mitigate
 Re-evaluate                                Monitor
Risk Management: a continuous process
Risk Universe
Principal
Risks
Group
Risk Universe
Business Heat Maps
and Risk Sheets
Summary of risks and themes from the
Risk Universe and Heat Maps. 
Reported to the Audit Committee
and the Board
Group-wide risks validated from
the operating unit Heat Maps.
Reported to the Executive
Committee
Detailed risk assessment
for each operating unit
for management and
control of risks
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk Hierarchy
Identification and management 22
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Fenner’s operations around the world are
exposed to a number of risks which could,
either on their own, or in combination with
others, have an adverse effect on the Group’s
results, strategy, business performance and
reputation which, in turn, could impact upon
shareholder returns. The principal risks listed
here are taken from the Fenner Risk Universe
and are deemed “principal” due to their
overall risk ranking and their specific
relevance to the Group's business, strategy
and operations. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to Fenner
or that Fenner currently consider immaterial
may also have an adverse effect on its
business.
Risk and owner Description and relevance Controls and mitigation
Risk
Key markets
Owner 
Chief Executive Officer &
Executive Committee
The economic recovery continues to be slow with some markets
weakening as others strengthen. Commodity volumes continued to grow
and in recent months, prices staged a fragile, perhaps temporary,
recovery. Although Fenner has successfully traded through previous
cycles, a substantial downturn in one or more key markets could have a
material adverse impact on the business.
Fenner has and will continue to benefit from underlying
volume growth in energy markets, other basic minerals and
the slow recovery in industrial markets. We continue to identify
and develop opportunities within each operation and across
the Group that are counter cyclical to help balance out any
market downturn.
Risk
Competitor activity 
Owner 
Executive Committee &
operational management
Our global competitor landscape is complex and dynamic. Commercial
activity by competitors or changes in their products or technology could
impact upon Fenner’s market share and profitability. 
In addition to a diverse product range, market intelligence and
competitor analysis supports market activities and informs
investment in R&D and technical product development.
Risk
Climate change 
Owner 
Chief Executive Officer &
Executive Committee
The impact on the market for our goods, the way Fenner operates and
the ability to acquire raw materials could be driven by real or perceived
climate change and regulatory actions in response to that. 
As well as the monitoring of government initiatives and public
opinion, Fenner has entered into alternative energy markets
including wind and seeks to diversify further into non-carbon
markets when appropriate opportunities arise. 
Risk
Raw materials 
Owner 
Operational management
Fenner purchases a variety of raw materials which could be susceptible
to uncontrollable and rapid movements in price, leading to margin
erosion. There are limited or even single source suppliers for certain of
our raw materials. A loss of supplier could lead to an inability to produce
goods in a timely or efficient manner .
With the Group’s wide geographical spread and devolved
purchasing functions, Fenner utilises a wide range of
techniques including long-term purchase contracts,
escalation clauses in sales contracts and dual sourcing. We
retain conversion know-how in-house and in specific
situations purchase base materials.
Risk
Liquidity and currency  
Owner 
Group Finance Director
Operating across a number of territories adds complexity to managing
liquidity and exposes the income statement and balance sheet to currency
variations. Longer-term issues arise from a cost base in one currency
and markets supplied in another . High foreign exchange volatility
increases hedging costs. Liquidity constraints could lead to reduced
funds for further investment or working capital requirements. 
Fenner has secure long-term debt finance and committed
facilities supported by sound banking and investor
relationships. Group treasury policy covers, inter alia, the use
of currency contracts, investment hedging policy and regular
reporting of trading exposures.
Risk
Major projects and
acquisitions  
Owner 
Chief Executive Officer,
Group Finance Director &
Executive Committee 
Our investment programme requires selecting the correct investment
opportunities and designing, building and effectively operating
appropriate facilities. Issues also exist around successfully integrating
acquired businesses into the Group. In addition, there is a risk of
management focus becoming diverted from external market issues to
internal operational issues in undertaking new projects and acquisitions.
Group control, authority levels and approval processes are
supplemented by the use of experienced project managers.
Group acquisition procedures include due diligence and the
use of professional advisors, appropriate and enforceable
representations and warranties with detailed integration
planning. 
Risk
Loss of intellectual
property 
Owner 
Operational management
Our products and processes have high levels of technical innovation and
know-how resulting in a strong brand, represented by recognised
trademarks. These rights are susceptible to theft, infringement, loss and
replication by competitors. This could lead to loss of competitive
advantage, loss of brand premium and loss of business. 
Fenner actively registers, manages and enforces intellectual
property rights and monitors competitor activity both directly
and by use of specialist services and use of non-disclosure
and non-compete agreements. Appropriate steps are taken to
retain and incentivise key people.
Risk
Key personnel 
Owner 
Chief Executive Officer &
Executive Committee 
The future success of Fenner is dependent on the continued services of
key personnel. Certain of our processes require specialist skills which
are not routinely available. A loss of key personnel, with associated
intellectual property and know-how, could disrupt production or even
our strategy. 
The corporate culture and management style of Fenner is
augmented by bespoke terms and conditions of employment
for key personnel, including bonuses, pension and long-term
incentive plans. 
Risk
Employee benefit
schemes
Owner 
Chief Executive Officer &
Group Finance Director
Fenner has a number of employee benefit schemes including defined
benefit post-retirement and US healthcare schemes. Risks arise from
exposure to changes in legislation, interest rates, investment returns,
dividends and life expectancy which can increase year-on-year costs
to Fenner . 
Scheme structures are under continual review using
professional advisors. All options including insurance are
considered. 
PRINCIPAL RISKS 23
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Report Business Review
Group Finance Director’s Review
Financing
The Group is financed principally by a mix of
equity, retained earnings, US dollar private
placement loan notes and committed bank
facilities. The principal loan facilities are
raised centrally while operating companies
supplement this funding with local overdraft
and working capital facilities. 
The Group’s principal committed loan
facilities consist of US dollar private
placement loan notes and bank facilities.
The Group’s US dollar private placement loan
notes total $290m (£187.1m). These mature
between 2017 and 2023 and bear fixed interest
rates averaging 5.4%. The Group also has
£0.4m of US Industrial Revenue Bonds.
The committed bank facilities, which total
£100m, are multi-currency revolving credit
agreements. They comprise £80m with a club
of four major UK based banks and a further
bilateral facility of £20m with one of the banks.
Both facilities mature in April 2017.
The Group’s total committed loan facilities at
31 August 2013 were £287.5m (2012:
£305.7m). At 31 August 2013, £71.0m (2012:
£106.2m) of these facilities were not drawn
down. Uncommitted facilities were in excess
of £35m.
The maturity profile of the committed loan
facilities is shown in the table below.
£m
0
30
60
90
120
150
180
2023 2021 2017
Revolving Credit Facilities (£100.0m) 
- floating rates & US Industrial Revenue 
Bonds (£0.4m)
Private Placements - fixed rates
87.1
41.9
100.4
58.1
GROUP FINANCE
DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Richard Perry
Group Finance Director
A robust financial performance.
Revenue and operating profit
Group revenue marginally decreased to £820.6m (2012: £830.6m). The favourable translation
effect of exchange rate movements was negligible, at £0.8m, despite the weakening of the
Australian dollar in the latter part of our financial year. The effect of acquisitions completed in
the year contributed £63.3m, which mitigated the effect of the softer activity levels in existing
businesses.
In the ECS division, revenue decreased by 7% to £549.8m (2012: £593.4m) and in the AEP
division, revenue increased by 14% to £270.8m (2012: £237.2m).
ECS AEP Total
£m £m £m
Revenue in 2012 593.4 237.2 830.6   
Exchange rate movements (1.4) 2.2 0.8
Revenue in 2012 at constant exchange rates 592.0 239.4 831.4
Revenue in 2013 before acquisitions 531.6 225.7 757.3
Acquisitions 18.2 45.1 63.3
Revenue in 2013 549.8 270.8 820.6
Underlying operating profit decreased by 15% to £101.5m (2012: £118.8m). The favourable
translation effect of exchange rate movements amounted to £0.4m. The effect of acquisition
activity contributed £12.3m.
Divisional profits contributed were £63.0m (2012: £84.4m) from the ECS division and £46.8m
(2012: £43.6m) from the AEP division.
ECS AEP Corporate Total
£m £m £m £m
Underlying operating profit in 2012 84.4 43.6 (9.2) 118.8   
Exchange rate movements (0.2) 0.6 - 0.4
Underlying operating profit in 2012 
at constant exchange rates 84.2 44.2 (9.2) 119.2
Underlying operating profit in 2013 
before acquisitions 61.4 36.1 (8.3) 89.2   
Acquisitions 1.6 10.7 - 12.3
Underlying operating profit in 2013 63.0 46.8 (8.3) 101.5
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired increased to £16.0m (2012: £11.2m), principally due
to acquisition activity.
Group operating profit decreased by 21% to £85.5m (2012: £107.6m). 24
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
The principal financial covenants relating to
the committed loan facilities are the ratio of
net debt to EBITDA and interest cover for
EBITDA. Net debt must be less than 3.5 times
adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA must be at
least 3 times the net interest charge. For
compliance with loan covenants, reported
EBITDA is adjusted for, inter alia, acquisitions
and non-cash items, which improves the
reported ratios.
Throughout the year under review, the Group
complied with all of its loan covenants, with
significant headroom available. Net debt to
reported EBITDA was 0.9 times (2012: 0.7
times). Reported EBITDA interest cover was
8.8 times (2012: 9.4 times). 
The private placements and bank facilities
provide the Group with a diversified range of
committed loan facilities, with a medium and
long-term maturity profile. The Group
remains well placed to fund and support its
operations with continuing access to medium
and long-term debt finance, cash resources
and, where necessary, shorter-term facilities. 
In normal circumstances, the Group aims to
maintain significant headroom in its net debt
to EBITDA ratio. The Board has indicated that
it might allow net debt to increase for short
periods when organic or acquisitive growth
opportunities arise which are expected to
enhance shareholder value.
Net finance costs
Finance costs, net of finance income, reduced
by £1.4m to £17.6m (2012: £19.0m).
2013 2012
£m £m
Fixed rate debt 
1
11.1 11.2
Floating rate debt 
2 3.7 3.8
Loan and commitment fees 0.4 0.6
Less: Interest receivable (0.6) (0.7)
Net interest payable 14.6 14.9
Notional interest 3.0 4.1
17.6 19.0
1 Including the cost of long-term cross-currency swaps. 
2 Including the cost of shorter-term cross-currency swaps.
The majority of the Group’s net interest
payable is at fixed interest rates, principally
arising from the US dollar private placement
loan notes and related cross-currency swaps.
The remaining borrowings and cash deposits
are at floating interest rates.
During the year, the Group’s average net
borrowings were substantially higher than at
the year end. Free cash flow is stronger in the
second half and much of the expenditure on
acquisitions arose in the early part of the year.
In addition, the global nature of the Group
leads to some territories requiring debt
funding while in others, cash balances arise,
in part supporting the hedging of net
investments in foreign currencies. The private
placement notes are fully drawn down and
used to fund or hedge Group operations,
partly through the use of swaps.
Notional interest comprises amounts related
to defined benefit post-retirement schemes of
£0.3m (2012: £0.4m), amounts in respect of
acquisitions, including unwinding of the
discount on deferred payments as well as
revisions to estimates of the redemption
liability on the purchase of non-controlling
interests, totalling £2.6m (2012: £3.2m) and a
charge of £0.1m (2012: £0.5m) relating to
other loans.
Taxation
The underlying tax rate for the year was 28.8%
(2012: 29.3%), being the rate on the profit
before amortisation of intangible assets
acquired and notional interest. The tax rate
for the year was 27.5% (2012: 29.6%). This tax
rate results from the blending of the different
rates of tax applied by each of the countries in
which the Group operates and, in any financial
year, will depend on the mix of profits made
between those countries.
The tax rate is higher than the UK statutory
corporation tax rate (currently 23.6% as
applied to the profits for our financial year) as
most of the Group’s profits are made outside
the UK in territories where the tax rate is
higher. A high proportion of group profits are
generated in the USA, where tax rates
including local state taxes are in excess of
35%. 
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share was 30.1p
(2012: 36.1p) and basic earnings per share
was 23.5p (2012: 30.3p).
Dividends
The interim dividend of 3.75p per share (2012:
3.5p) was paid on 6 September 2013. The
Board is recommending a final dividend of
7.5p per share (2012: 7.0p) to make a total
dividend for the year of 11.25p per share
(2012: 10.5p). If approved by shareholders, the
final dividend will be paid on 7 March 2014 to
shareholders on the register on 31 January
2014.
The total dividend represents a distribution of
37% (2012: 29%) of underlying earnings.
Acquisitions
The Group completed four acquisitions during
the financial year. The Group acquired these
businesses with a combination of initial
payments, deferred amounts and contingent
deferred amounts. Deferred amounts are
payable after an appropriate time has elapsed
in relation to the seller’s contractual
representations and warranties period.
Contingent deferred amounts are the
estimated amounts payable based upon the
future growth in performance of the acquired
business. Initial payments, net of debt
acquired, amounted to £54.1m, deferred
amounts are £3.8m and contingent deferred
amounts are estimated at £13.0m. From the
dates of their respective acquisitions until the
end of the financial year, the acquired
businesses contributed £12.3m to underlying
operating profit which represents a 22.7%
return on the initial payments.
On 1 September 2012, the Group completed
the acquisition of substantially all of the
assets and liabilities of American Industrial
Plastics (“AIP”), based in Florida, USA. AIP is
a precision machining company with the
ability to machine advanced polymers for
application in the oil & gas and medical
markets as well as manufacturing
performance precision components for a
range of niche applications including
aerospace. The initial cash consideration was
£16.7m with contingent deferred amounts
estimated at £7.2m.
On 3 September 2012, the Group completed
the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of
The above table demonstrates a record of consistent long-term shareholder value
added investments and returns.
Delivering shareholder value
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
£m
Acquisitions & disposals (net debt) Free cash flow Net capital expenditure Dividends 25
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Norwegian Seals, which has operations in
Norway and the UK. Norwegian Seals
manufactures and distributes performance-
critical seals into the oil & gas market. This
acquisition has increased FAST’s presence in
the North Sea market and is enabling
Norwegian Seals to build its growing industry
reputation and presence in new markets. The
initial cash consideration, net of debt
acquired, was £11.8m with deferred amounts
of £3.8m.
On 3 September 2012, the Group completed
the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of
Mandals, principally based in Norway with a
smaller facility in Sweden. Mandals is a
leading manufacturer of innovative lay-flat
and speciality hoses for use in demanding
applications including in the exploitation of
shale gas reserves, where its products have
important cost and logistical advantages over
traditional pipes. The cash consideration, net
of debt acquired, was £11.6m.
On 30 November 2012, the Group completed
the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of
Australian Conveyor Engineering Pty Limited
("ACE"), based in New South Wales, Australia.
ACE specialises in supplying engineered
conveyor solutions for the design,
manufacture and installation of high capacity
conveyor systems for both surface and
underground mining. The acquisition has
enhanced Fenner Dunlop's service offering to
mining customers, initially in Australia, with
the expectation of this being rolled out
elsewhere in the future. The initial cash
consideration, net of debt acquired, was
£14.0m with contingent deferred amounts
estimated at £5.8m.  
All amounts above are based on exchange
rates at the dates of completion.
Contingent and deferred consideration
payments made during the year which related
to prior year acquisitions amounted to £8.4m.
Further disclosures of acquisitions are given
in note 33 to the Group financial statements.
Disposals
On 29 April 2013, the Group sold Svenska
Brandslangfabriken AB, a non-core business
in Sweden, which was acquired as part of the
Mandals businesses on 3 September 2012.
Net cash proceeds were £4.5m and the profit
on disposal amounted to £2.7m.
Further disclosures are provided in note 34 to
the Group financial statements. 
Financial risk management
In the normal course of business, the Group is
exposed to certain financial risks, principally
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk,
liquidity risk and credit risk. These risks are
managed by the central treasury function in
conjunction with the operating units, in
accordance with risk management policies
that are designed to minimise the potential
adverse effects of these risks on financial
performance. The policies are reviewed and
approved by the Board.
The exposures are managed through the use
of borrowings, derivatives and credit
management procedures. The use of
derivatives is undertaken only where the
underlying interest or foreign exchange risk
arises from the Group’s operations or sources
of finance. No speculative trading in
derivatives is permitted. Further information
on foreign exchange risk management is
given below and on financial risk
management in note 20 to the Group financial
statements.
Foreign exchange translation risk 
The Group has operations around the world,
which report in their respective functional
currencies. The Group is exposed to
translation risk in respect of its income
statement.
Principal average exchange rates applied on
translation of the income statement for 2013
and 2012 were as follows:
US$ AUD$ Euro
2013 1.56 1.56 1.19
2012 1.58 1.53 1.21
Translation of the Group results for 2013 at
exchange rates ruling at 31 October 2013
(US$ = 1.61, AUD$ = 1.70 and Euro = 1.18)
Directors’ Report Business Review
Group Finance Director’s Review continued
Cash flow and net debt
The table below summarises the cash flows giving rise to the movement in net debt.
2013 2012
£m £m
Net cash from operations 126.5 127.1
Taxation paid (24.5) (23.5)
Net cash from operating activities 102.0 103.6   
Net capital expenditure (27.0) (28.3)
Net interest paid (14.9) (12.3)
Free cash flow 60.1 63.0
Acquisitions (62.5) (34.3)
Disposals 4.5 -
Dividends (23.6) (18.0)
Cash (absorption)/generation (21.5) 10.7
Exchange movements (0.4) (4.7)
Other movements (1.5) (1.9)
Movement in net debt (23.4) 4.1
Opening net debt (97.7) (101.8)
Closing net debt (121.1) (97.7)
Net cash from operations was £126.5m (2012: £127.1m) and net cash from operating activities
was £102.0m (2012: £103.6m). This was a strong performance given the reduction in underlying
operating profit and included a reduction of £6.4m (2012: £8.3m absorption) in working capital.
Net capital expenditure was £27.0m (2012: £28.3m). Three projects to increase the
manufacturing capability of our ECS operations in Australia, the Netherlands and China were
completed and there was further investment in our AEP operations, including capacity
expansion at Mandals in Norway and Secant Medical in the USA to meet the needs of our
customers. Net interest paid was £14.9m (2012: £12.3m). The resultant free cash inflow of
£60.1m (2012: £63.0m) facilitated the Group’s acquisitive expansion.
The net cash outflow on acquisitions, net of debt acquired, and disposal activity was £58.0m
(2012: £34.3m), of which £8.4m (2012: £11.5m) related to deferred and contingent amounts on
prior year acquisitions. Dividends paid increased to £23.6m (2012: £18.0m). The resultant cash
absorption was £21.5m (2012: £10.7m generation).
After adverse exchange rate movements of £0.4m (2012: £4.7m) and other increases in debt of
£1.5m (2012: £1.9m), closing net debt increased by £23.4m to £121.1m (2012: £97.7m).
Gross debt amounted to £220.3m (2012: £206.4m) while cash and cash equivalents were £99.2m
(2012: £108.7m). 26
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
would have reduced underlying operating
profit by £4.5m to £97.0m compared to the
actual reported outturn of £101.5m.
The Group is also exposed to translation risk
in respect of its net assets in foreign
operations. Where cost effective, the Group
hedges a proportion of its exposures through
a combination of borrowings, cross-currency
swaps and forward foreign currency
contracts, principally in respect of net assets
denominated in US dollars, Australian dollars
and euros. 
The Group has entered into cross-currency
swaps linked to the US dollar private
placement cash flows. In 2007, $27.2m was
swapped into €20.0m at a fixed rate of 5.05%,
maturing in 2017. In 2011, $44.7m was
swapped into AUD$45.0m at a fixed rate of
8.43%, maturing in 2023. These swaps provide
hedges against the Group’s net investments in
the euro and Australian dollars, at fixed
interest rates, and mirror the private
placement cash flows. These swaps have
been accounted for as hedges in accordance
with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement’, with the
charge or credit recognised directly in other
comprehensive income in equity.   
Foreign exchange transaction risk
Transaction exposures arise where an
operation sells or purchases goods and
services in a non-functional currency.                               
Material transaction exposures are hedged,
principally with forward foreign currency
contracts, once cash flows can be identified
with sufficient certainty. Where derivatives are
used to hedge transaction exposures, the
Group does not hedge account for such
transactions under the requirements of IAS
39, recognising that cash flows through to the
maturity of the derivative are unaffected. In
compliance with IAS 39, all financial
instruments have been measured at their fair
value as at the balance sheet date. A charge
or credit to the income statement has been
recognised for the loss or gain on these
instruments. In addition, in accordance with
IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates’, all foreign currency
monetary items have been retranslated at the
closing rate, with changes in value charged or
credited to the income statement.
Return on gross capital employed
The return on gross capital employed has
decreased to 18.9% (2012: 24.0%) largely due
to the reduction in underlying operating profit
from the record level achieved in 2012.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined
benefit post-retirement schemes for
qualifying employees in operations around the
world. 
The principal scheme is the Fenner Pension
Scheme which is based in the UK and was
closed to new entrants in 1997. The latest
formal actuarial valuation of the scheme by a
qualified actuary was carried out as at 31
March 2011.
The total defined benefit post-retirement
deficit, as calculated by the schemes'
actuaries in accordance with IAS 19
‘Employee Benefits’ and recorded on the
balance sheet at 31 August 2013, decreased
to £26.8m (2012: £48.2m). The decrease was
principally due to a reduction in the deficit of
the Fenner Pension Scheme to £16.2m (2012:
£35.9m). The deficit of overseas schemes
totalled £10.6m (2012: £12.3m).
During the year, the fair value of assets of the
schemes increased by £19.3m (2012:
increased by £11.4m), principally generated
from actuarial gains in the Fenner Pension
Scheme’s equity investments and additional
Group contributions paid to reduce the deficit.
The present value of obligations reduced by
£2.2m (2012: increased by £27.8m).
For the year ending 31 August 2014, the Group
is required to adopt IAS 19 (Revised)
‘Employee Benefits’. The impact of the revised
standard on the year ended 31 August 2013
would have increased finance costs and
reduced profit before taxation by £1.5m,
principally due to the new requirement for the
expected return on assets to be calculated by
applying the corporate bond yield discount
rate to pension assets. It is expected that net
assets at 31 August 2013 would have
increased by £1.2m, principally due to the
removal of an allowance within obligations,
representing the capitalised value of future
expenses relating to benefits already accrued.
Further details of post-retirement benefits are
disclosed in note 25 to the Group financial
statements.
Accounting policies
The Group financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the accounting
policies described in note 1 to the Group
financial statements, in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards
as adopted by the European Union. 
The Company financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the accounting
policies described in note 1 to the Company
financial statements, in accordance with UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have
formed a judgement at the time of approving
the financial statements that there is a
reasonable expectation that the Company and
Group have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, the directors continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements. In forming this view,
the directors have reviewed the Group’s
budget and cash flow forecasts against
availability of financing, including an
assessment of sensitivities to changes in
market conditions.
Richard Perry
Group Finance Director
13 November 2013 27
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Mark Abrahams (58)
Chairman
Appointed to the Board as Group
Finance Director in October 1990,
became Chief Executive Officer in May
1994 and non-executive Chairman in
March 2011. He is also non-executive
Chairman of Inditherm plc and Vice
Chairman of The Leeds Teaching
Hospitals NHS Trust.
Nicholas Hobson (54)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board in March 2011
after being with the Group for over 20
years. He was the Divisional Director of
the Advanced Engineered Products
division for nine years prior to being
appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Richard Perry (63)
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board in September
1994. He is also a non-executive
director of Scapa Group plc.
Vanda Murray OBE (52)
Senior Independent Director
Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
She was formerly Chief Executive Officer of
Blick plc and is currently a non-executive
director of Chemring Group plc, Carillion
plc and The Manchester Airports Group.
Directors’ Report Governance
THE BOARD 28
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Alan Wood (66)
Appointed to the Board in April 2010. He
was formerly non-executive Chairman
of Siemens Holdings plc.
John Sheldrick (64)
Appointed to the Board in September
2010. He was formerly an executive
director of Johnson Matthey plc and a
non-executive director of GKN. He is
currently a non-executive director of
Low & Bonar PLC.
Non-executive 
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee
Debra Bradbury (48)
Company Secretary 
Joined the Company in April 2001 and was
appointed Company Secretary in July 2002.
David Buttfield (66)
(Retired 16 January 2013)
Appointed to the Board in January 2003.
He was formerly an executive director
of D S Smith Plc. 29
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Foreword from the Chairman
I believe that strong leadership and
governance has enabled the Group to achieve
good results during a year of challenging
operating conditions.
We as a Board are committed to maintaining
high standards of governance and promoting
a culture of strong business ethics throughout
the Group. Our core values are to: do no harm
to employees, the environment or corporately;
to have a strong culture of autonomy with
accountability and empowerment; to promote
honesty, integrity and decency; to deliver
excellence; and to adhere to high business
standards. 
I and my colleagues have found that high
standards of governance do engender effective,
entrepreneurial and prudent management,
which in turn contributes towards the long-
term success of the Group. The Board
continues to adhere to the UK Corporate
Governance Code (“the Code”), which was
adopted in 2011, and continues to work in
accordance with the Principles outlined within
it and will look to implement changes
introduced by the revised Code which are
effective for our year ending 31 August 2014. 
Changes to the Board
Changes to the Board are included in the
Chairman’s Statement on page 5 and in the
activities of the Nomination Committee on
page 31. Other than as noted, there were no
other changes to the Board in the year.
Governance and compliance visits
Vanda Murray and I met with several major
shareholders during the year to discuss
corporate governance, remuneration and
shareholder engagement. We will continue to
offer to meet with our major shareholders and
the proxy voting agencies from time to time to
ensure that we maintain an open and clear
dialogue with our shareholders. These
meetings have provided an opportunity for
both the Company and major shareholders to
gain insight, mutual understanding and
comfort over the corporate governance
policies in operation at Fenner. The meetings
are entirely separate to shareholder meetings
that the executive directors undertake. I am
pleased to confirm that the shareholder
engagement has been very positive and that our
shareholders continue to be supportive of the
Board, the Group and its management team.
Board independence
The Board comprises three independent non-
executive directors, two executive directors
and myself as non-executive Chairman and we
are supported by the Group Company
Secretary. It is my belief that the Board has the
right balance of independent, experienced
directors and is compliant with all main
provisions of the Code. Therefore we can
provide assurance to our shareholders that
Board decisions are taken in the long-term
interests of the Group and its shareholders,
employees and wider stakeholders as a whole. 
Board visits
The Board tries to visit different Group
operations each year which reflect the
spectrum of Fenner’s business interests and
their geographic spread. This year however, a
provisionally planned visit to the Australian
operations was postponed, although I did attend
and officiate over the opening of the second
steel cord line at the Kwinana facility in Perth,
Western Australia. A Board meeting and plant
tour was held at the Hallite Seals site in
Hampton, UK. In 2014, the Board is planning to
visit the Mandals operation in Norway. Mandals
was acquired at the start of the year under
review and has been a very successful
acquisition for AEP and the Group.
These visits help to broaden and deepen the
non-executive directors’ knowledge and
understanding of the Group’s businesses.  
Initiatives and activities 
The Board completed the external Board
evaluation process which was started towards
the end of the previous financial year . Details of
the evaluation are given on page 33. 
We considered the changes to remuneration
reporting under the BIS proposals which will
become mandatory for our year ending 31
August 2014. We also reviewed the changes to
the UK Corporate Governance Code which we
will adopt in the next reporting year .
The corporate strategy initiative started in 2011
has been distilled down to the operations to
help form their local complementary strategic
goals. The Board maintains a close eye on
corporate strategy and it is a standing item on
the Board agenda. The Risk Workshop
programme continues to be well received by
the operations and a full presentation has been
received by the Audit Committee on progress to
date. The programme offers each business the
opportunity to look at their operations in a
more objective and strategic way and evaluate
their specific risks, controls and related
mitigation strategies. 
Four acquisitions were completed early in the
year and are highlighted in the Business
Review on pages 24 to 25. Potential acquisition
targets and strategic fit are discussed regularly
by the Board.  
In addition to the above, the Board, amongst
other matters, covered the following:
received the annual HSE review from the
Group HSE Coordinator;
reviewed and approved, where
appropriate, major capital expenditure
items and considered how they helped
towards the strategic goals of the Group;
approved the disposal of a non-core
business in Sweden;
approved the succession plans and
appointments for two senior management
roles and changes to the Group Executive
Committee;
reviewed divisional strategic and
operational performance;
considered Group financial performance
against budget, forecast and market
expectations; and
received a report on the design and
implementation of the new UK defined
contribution pension plan.
This report sets out in more detail what we
have done in the year, how we have applied
A detailed review of Risk Management
and Principal Risks are set out on 
pages 21 to 22
Directors’ Report Governance
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
A culture of strong business ethics. 30
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
the Principles of the Code, including any
areas of divergence from the Code, and what
initiatives we are examining. The report also
explains how the Board and its Committees
are structured and highlights changes to the
Board during the year. 
Compliance with the provisions of
the Code
The Board reviewed the requirements of the
Code and has complied with the provisions
and spirit of the Code. 
This Corporate Governance report should be
read in conjunction with the Business Review
on pages 5 to 26, Other Statutory Information
on pages 37 to 39 and the Board
Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 48. The
information required under Rule 7 of the
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the
Financial Conduct Authority is included on
pages 37 to 39.
Leadership
Our approach to corporate governance
Strong governance and controls are expected
throughout the Group from the Board down.
The Board equally expects all Group
operations to share the same vision, values
and standards of governance. This is
particularly important in a Group that
promotes a culture of entrepreneurial
leadership, encompassing autonomy and
accountability.
The performance of the operations and the
management teams is reviewed by the Board
via regular reports, meetings and
presentations and the Board plays a key role in
reviewing strategy, risk and the management
of risk. Shareholders’ requirements are also
managed by the Board and it acts as a conduit
between shareholders and operations to
ensure that their interests are aligned.
Role and responsibilities of the Board
One of the primary roles of the Board is to
provide strong leadership which in turn
enables the executive directors to give
effective management and oversight to the
operations to promote the long-term
objectives and strategy of the Group. The
Board ensures that there are highly competent
and professional management teams in place
around the Group, with robust controls and
financial and commercial expertise to ensure
the long-term success of the Company. 
Specific matters are reserved for the Board’s
consideration under a formal schedule which
is reviewed on an annual basis. Under that
schedule the Board:
reviews trading performance and business
strategy; 
approves significant capital expenditure
including acquisitions and disposals; 
manages relations and communication
with shareholders; 
considers senior management
appointments; and
approves Group policies. 
The Board has formal Board meetings
throughout the year to deal with prescribed
matters and to receive the reports of the
executive directors. Between formal
meetings, the Chairman and non-executive
directors have access to the executive
directors and the Group Company Secretary
and meet with the members of the Executive
Committee throughout the year. Day-to-day
management and operational matters are
delegated to a duly authorised Executive
Committee comprising senior executives,
while other specific Board level matters are
delegated to sub-committees of the Board.
Details of the composition and purpose of
these delegated Committees are set out on
pages 30 to 32.
Responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer are separate and distinct and codified
in a written description of specific
responsibilities. The principal responsibility of
the Chairman is for the leadership and
effectiveness of the Board while the principal
responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer
are for the operational performance of the
Group, promoting a strong health and safety
ethos and communicating the expectations of
the Board in relation to the Company’s
culture, values and behaviours.
The role of the Chairman
Mark Abrahams continues to fulfil the role of
a non-executive Chairman professionally and
properly, being mindful of promoting strong
and effective governance and preserving the
culture of the Company. The presence of three
independent non-executive directors ensures
that no one individual has unfettered powers
in terms of decision making or Board
direction. The Chairman sets the overall tone
and promotes strong leadership resulting in
an effective and cohesive Board, he fosters
the vision, values, governance standards and
ethical behaviour of the Company and
encourages an atmosphere of openness and
invites robust and constructive debate around
the Board table. The Chairman sets the Board
agenda, chairs the meetings and ensures that
directors receive timely and clear information
and maintains close contact with Board
members and the Company Secretary.
The role of the non-executive directors
The non-executive directors bring
independence of mind and a breadth of
complementary skills and experience to the
Board. Their role is to engender constructive
debate and challenge during Board
discussions and help develop strategy. They
scrutinise the performance of management,
satisfy themselves on the integrity of the
financial systems, controls and risk
management and determine the levels of
remuneration for the executive directors. 
Vanda Murray is the Senior Independent
Director and her role, amongst other matters,
is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman
and serve as an intermediary for the other
directors as necessary. The Senior Independent
Director is available to shareholders and
attends the meetings with the corporate
governance heads of major shareholders
alongside the Chairman. The visits to corporate
governance heads are separate to the analyst
and shareholder meetings that the executive
directors attend and help to foster the
relationship between the Company and its
shareholders, help the Company better
understand the requirements of its major
shareholders and allow shareholders to have
access to the Company to raise concerns or
issues or to confirm that they are happy with
the performance of the Company and the way it
is being governed. These meetings take place
on a regular basis. Invitations are extended to
the proxy voting agencies as well as major
shareholders, although not all organisations
take up the offer of a meeting. 
There have been three independent non-
executive directors on the Board throughout the
year . David Buttfield was a non-independent,
non-executive director until the conclusion of
the AGM on 16 January 2013. The non-executive
directors have broad and valuable experience,
depth of knowledge and complementary skills
and are independent in character and
judgment. There are no known relationships or
circumstances which are likely to affect, or
could appear to affect, their judgment.
The role of the Committees
Remuneration Committee
Responsibilities
The Committee reviews legislation and
guidance and considers shareholders’
opinions relating to remuneration practices
and reporting requirements on behalf of the
Board, with input from external advisors,
where necessary, and the Group Company
Secretary. It is also consulted on the granting
to certain employees of an executive cash
long-term incentive plan with performance
measures aligned with growth in the
underlying earnings per share of the Company
over a three year measurement period.
Remuneration Committee governance
Terms of Reference set out the Committee’s
role and duties. The Chief Executive Officer, if
invited to attend, does not participate in any
decision in relation to his own remuneration.
The Committee has the power to request the
attendance at meetings of any director or
Group employee as considered appropriate.
The remuneration policy of the Company
is set out in the Board Remuneration
Report on pages 40 to 48 31
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
The Remuneration Committee received advice
during the year from AON Hewitt in relation to
the Performance Share Plan. AON Hewitt has
no other connection with the Company.
Activities
The Committee reviewed the new
remuneration reporting requirements and
further details of the Committee’s work are
set out in the Board Remuneration Report on
pages 40 to 48.
Audit Committee
Nomination Committee 
Responsibilities
Terms of reference set out the Nomination
Committee’s role and duties. The Committee
adheres to the Group Diversity Statement when
recruiting candidates to the Board. Although
specific diversity targets are not set, each
candidate is assessed on their own individual
merits, skills, experience, knowledge and
suitability for the role regardless of gender,
ethnicity or religious beliefs. The overall aim of
the Committee is to maintain a Board with the
right balance of skills and experience to help
govern and lead the Company.
Nomination Committee governance
The Committee generally meets at least twice
a year and has the power to request the
attendance at meetings of any director or
Group employee as considered appropriate.
Activities
During the year, the Committee reviewed and
recommended the reappointment of both Alan
Wood and John Sheldrick as non-executive
directors; neither of whom took part in the
discussions relating to their own
reappointment. The Committee believes that
both Alan and John have demonstrated over
their initial three year tenures that they had
the skills, experience and knowledge required
by the Company to maintain a suitable fit and
balance to the Board. Both Alan, as a former
engineer, and John, as a former finance
director, have extensive experience in
companies that operate globally. In addition,
John has considerable experience in public
companies.  
The Committee will be giving consideration to
the reappointment of the Chairman as he will
complete three years of service at the end of
February 2014.  
Terms of reference of the Committees of the
Board
The terms of reference of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees
are reviewed at least annually and are
available to view on the Group’s website at
www.fenner.com or upon request to the Group
Company Secretary.
Role of the Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is chaired by the
Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two
executive directors, the Group Company
Secretary and seven members of the Group’s
senior management including senior
The work, responsibilities and
governance of the Audit Committee 
are set out on pages 35 to 36
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee
Role
Responsible for the oversight of the
Company’s financial reporting, internal
controls and risk management,
managing the relationship with fraud
detection and reporting and
whistleblowing reporting and the
effectiveness of the external auditors.
Role
Responsible for determining the
remuneration packages of the executive
directors and other senior executives
and advises on executive remuneration
policy issues, as well as reviewing the
appropriateness of the remuneration
policy. The Committee administers the
long-term Performance Share Plan.
Role
Responsibilities include reviewing the
composition of the Board, the
identification and nomination of
candidates to fill Board vacancies and
considering succession planning for all
Board positions and senior executives. 
Role
Responsibilities include day-to-day
management of the Group and
operational matters. 
Committee Chairman
John Sheldrick 
Committee Chairman
Alan Wood
Committee Chairman
Mark Abrahams
Committee Chairman
Nicholas Hobson
Non-executive directors
Alan Wood
Vanda Murray
Non-executive directors
Vanda Murray
John Sheldrick
Non-executive directors
Vanda Murray
Alan Wood
John Sheldrick
Executive director
Nicholas Hobson
Executive director
Richard Perry
Other members
Group Company Secretary: 
Debra Bradbury  
Managing Directors of operations: 
David Landgren
Leonard Casey
Allen Cubell
John Pratt
Edwin Have
Karen West
Corporate Development Director: 
Richard Morello
External auditors
Chairman
Chief Executive Officer
Group Finance Director
Group Company Secretary
Group Financial Controller
Group Treasurer and Head of Tax 
Group Business Risk Manager
Senior Internal Auditor
Chairman
Chief Executive Officer
Group Finance Director
Group Company Secretary
Independent external advisors
Group Finance Director
Group Company Secretary
External advisors as required
Group Business Risk Manager
Group HSE Coordinator
Director of Strategic Planning and
Investor Relations
Group HR Development Director
External advisors as required
How are we structured to ensure good, strong governance?
Directors’ Report Governance
Corporate Governance continued
Others who are invited to attend from time to time
Membership  32
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
executives from the operations. The Executive
Committee meets at least six times a year
and deals with the daily management of the
Group through powers delegated to it by the
Board. The Committee is responsible for:
helping to develop and execute strategy;
overseeing and managing the operational,
financial and safety performance of the
Group; identifying and managing risk; and
playing an instrumental part in identifying and
managing acquisitions in conjunction with
local management teams. 
Effectiveness
Composition of the Board
The Board comprises the non-executive
Chairman, three non-executive directors, the
Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance
Director and it is supported by the Group
Company Secretary. The balance of
independence on the Board is carefully
maintained and it continues to have the
appropriate balance of skills, experience,
independence and knowledge necessary for
the operation of an effective and robust Board.
The non-executive directors have extensive
experience at executive and non-executive
Board level of running international industrial
engineering companies and bring these skills
to bear at Board meetings. The current Board
is comprised of five male directors and one
female director.
Appointments to the Board 
The Nomination Committee manages Board
appointments and agrees the candidate
specification, which sets out the type of skills,
experience, qualifications and knowledge a
preferred candidate should ideally have; this is
agreed and discussed with external
independent recruitment consultants. The
Board considers diversity, including gender,
when recruiting new candidates and a Board
Diversity Statement has been put in place. All
candidates are chosen on merit, against the
objective criteria set in the candidate
specification, regardless of race, gender or
religious beliefs and therefore in line with the
Board Diversity Statement. The principal
concern of the Nomination Committee is to
ensure all candidates are of appropriate
experience and ability and fit for the role. The
Board does not intend to set specific diversity
targets because it could fetter the ability to
appoint the best candidate based on merit
alone which would be against Board and
Group philosophy. Board succession is borne
in mind and discussed as part of the process.
Commitment
All Board members are expected to be able to
devote sufficient time to the Company to
discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board members are expected to attend all
main Board and Committee meetings and
have sufficient time available to prepare for
such meetings. Executive directors cannot
hold more than one non-executive
directorship in a FTSE 100 company although
currently neither of the executive directors
holds such a FTSE 100 role.
Development, information and support
New Board appointments receive a full,
tailored induction when joining the Company,
which includes one on one meetings with the
Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director
and Group Company Secretary as well as with
key members of the management team from
health, safety and environment, finance, tax
and treasury, risk management, business
development and human resources. New
Board appointees are given a tailored induction
pack along with an explanation of different
areas of the Group. 
The Chairman, via the Group Company
Secretary, ensures that information is
submitted to the Board and its Committees in
a timely manner so that all documents, papers,
briefing notes, proposals and financial
information can be reviewed ahead of meetings
to enable the Board to discharge its duties
proficiently. Board papers are issued
electronically over a secure web based portal
which improves the timeliness and portability
of information to the Board. 
The Group Company Secretary is available to
all Board members. She is responsible for
ensuring that the Board follows procedures,
providing information, guidance and advice as
well as ensuring that the Board members are
kept up to date on governance, regulations,
development and best practice. 
The Board has access to independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense
should they require it to discharge their duties.
Ensuring an effective Board 
The Board believes that maintaining the right
balance of skills, experience, knowledge and
independence is crucial in maintaining an
effective Board and it is confident that the
current Board structure and membership
achieves this aim. Board members interact
well with each other and have a high regard
for each other. They also interact with the
wider management team thereby helping to
ensure that all Board members are able to
make meaningful and cohesive contributions
to Board discussions and decisions.      
Biographies of the Board, setting out their
current appointments and experience, are
set out in The Board on pages 27 to 28
33%
17%
50%
Chairman Non-independent directors
Independent non-executive directors
Gender
83%
17%
Female
Male
Independence
Meetings of the Board
The attendance of each director at Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and
Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
             
                  Audit Remuneration Nomination director
                  Board Committee Committee Committee meetings 
      
Number of meetings during the year 63 3 2 2
Chairman 
M S Abrahams 6 3* 3* 22
Executive directors
N M Hobson 6 3* 3* 2 n/a
R J Perry 6 3* 2* 0 n/a
Non-executive directors
V Murray 63 3 2 2
D F Buttfield (up to 16 January 2013) 2 1* 1* 00
A J Wood 63 3 1 2
J N Sheldrick 63 3 1 2
*   By invitation 
Non-executive 33
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Board evaluation
An externally facilitated Board evaluation
programme was concluded in December 2012
and was carried out by an independent
consultant, Dr Stuart Slatter, formerly a
professor at London Business School. Dr
Slatter had previously worked with the
Company on strategy workshops and
seminars and his knowledge of Fenner was
very helpful in the facilitation of the Board
evaluation process.    
Dr Slatter met separately with each member
of the Board including the Group Company
Secretary before a Group meeting to explore
Board dynamics, behaviour, effectiveness,
cohesiveness, composition, expertise, Board
governance, Board processes, adequacy and
completeness of Board papers and the
effectiveness and structure of the Committees
of the Board.
The evaluation highlighted how trust,
confidence and understanding had developed
between the Board members and how the
strength of the relationships had been forged.   
For the year under review, an internal
evaluation process has been started by the
Chairman but will not conclude until after the
publication of the Annual Report.
Relations with shareholders
Communicating with shareholders
The Company continues to engage in regular
dialogue with its major shareholders, private
client brokers and also with private investors
at the AGM. There are regular face to face
meetings throughout the year with major
shareholders along with briefings with
brokers and analysts. While most meetings
are conducted by the Chief Executive Officer
and Group Finance Director, there are also
meetings between shareholder compliance
and governance departments and the
Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
All Board members understand that they have
responsibility for engendering and
maintaining good relations and
communications with shareholders. Non-
executive directors can request to be present
at meetings with major shareholders and will
be available to attend meetings as requested
by major shareholders.
Shareholder views and comments are
communicated to the Board. The Board also
receives copies of all analyst and broker
reports. 
A new Group website was launched during the
year which has enhanced shareholder
information and gives more clarity on the
Group and its operations. The website
includes analyst presentations, the current
share price, regulatory announcements,
financial performance information,
shareholder information and an investor
relations contact address. It also includes a
briefing on the Group operations worldwide
and its markets and divisions.  
Constructive use of the AGM
Before the formal commencement of the
AGM, there is a presentation to the attending
shareholders by the Chief Executive Officer
and Group Finance Director, following which
shareholders are invited to ask questions. At
the conclusion of the formal business of the
AGM, all members of the Board make
themselves available to answer questions.
In relation to the AGM:
separate resolutions are proposed for
each substantially separate issue
including the receipt of the Annual
Report;
proxy forms allow shareholders to direct
their proxy vote either for or against the
resolution or to withhold their vote;
the proxy count is available at the AGM in
respect of each resolution after it has
been dealt with on a show of hands;
the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report
and any other related papers are made
available to shareholders more than one
month before the meeting; and
shareholders are invited to ask questions
during the AGM as well as having an
opportunity to meet the Board before and
after the formal meeting.
Conflicts
The statutory duties for directors relating to
conflicts of interest are set out in the
Companies Act 2006. No conflicts arose
during the year and the Board continues to
monitor events with a view to ensuring any
conflicts are handled appropriately.
Internal control
In accordance with the requirements of the
Code and the recommendations of the
Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the
directors can confirm that, after having
reviewed the effectiveness of the control
systems and arrangements, no significant
changes to material risks, control failings or
weaknesses have been identified that resulted
in unforeseen material losses. While the
directors are responsible for the Group’s
system of internal control, like any system of
internal control, it can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Key procedures within the internal control
structure are:
the identification of major business and
insurance risks faced by the Group’s
operations, by both the Board and senior
management, and the determination of
the most appropriate course of action to
deal with these risks; 
central review and approval procedures in
respect of major areas of risk such as
acquisitions and disposals, litigation,
treasury management, taxation and
environmental issues; 
a clear management structure with well-
defined lines of responsibility and the
appropriate levels of delegation; 
regular review of the Group’s operating
units by operational and executive
management and monthly reports from
the senior managing directors;
a structured process for appraising and
authorising capital projects which
includes clearly defined authorisation
levels; projects are subject to post-
investment appraisals; 
well established consolidation and
reporting systems for both the statutory
and monthly management accounts;
monthly, half yearly and annual financial
results are prepared by the consolidation
team and reviewed by management, with
financial reports distributed to all Board
members;
comprehensive budgeting systems with
an annual budget approved by the Board;
monthly results are reported against
budget and revised forecasts for the year
are prepared regularly; 
an internal programme of monitoring
visits by the internal audit team, as
agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews
the compliance of each operating unit
with the Group's standard internal
financial control procedures; 
competition compliance programmes are
in place in several jurisdictions;
compliance policies are applied including
a Code of Business Conduct, an Anti-
bribery & Corruption Policy and a
Whistleblowing Policy; and 
a programme of business risk reviews
with operational management focusing on
non-financial controls and risk
management.
Statement of directors’
responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration
Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year. Under that law the directors
have prepared the Group financial statements
in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by
the European Union and the parent company
Directors’ Report Governance
Corporate Governance continued 34
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
financial statements in accordance with
United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom
Accounting Standards and applicable law).
Under company law the directors must not
approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Group and the
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently;
make judgements and accounting
estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
state whether IFRS as adopted by the
European Union and applicable United
Kingdom Accounting Standards have been
followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the
Group and parent company financial
statements respectively; and
prepare the financial statements on the
going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that are
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of
the Company and the Group and enable them
to ensure that the financial statements and
the Board Remuneration Report comply with
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and
the Group and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
The Board believes it meets the Code provision
of presenting a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Company’s position and
prospects via its Annual Report, Half Yearly
Financial Report, Interim Management
Statements and through its periodic analyst
and shareholder presentations.
The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. Each of the
directors, whose names and functions are
listed in The Board on pages 27 to 28 and who
remain in office, confirm that, to the best of
their knowledge:
the Group financial statements, which
have been prepared in accordance with
IFRS as adopted by the European Union,
give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit of
the Group; and
the Business Review contained on pages
5 to 26 includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the
business and the position of the Group,
together with a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties that it
faces.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
13 November 2013 35
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Foreword by the Chairman of
the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which comprises the
three independent non-executive directors,
met three times during the year. The
Committee’s responsibilities include
reviewing the Company’s financial
statements, internal financial controls and
risk management systems. To support this
work, the Committee receives reports from
the Company’s external and internal auditors.
The Committee meets separately with both
external and internal auditors and also
reviews their independence and effectiveness.
The work carried out by the Audit Committee
in the year under review is set out in the
following report. 
Composition and governance
The Audit Committee operates under formal
written terms of reference which govern its
role and responsibilities. 
The Committee comprises John Sheldrick,
Vanda Murray and Alan Wood, all of whom are
independent non-executive directors with
John Sheldrick acting as Chairman of the
Committee. Neither the Board Chairman nor
executive directors are members of the
Committee although they can attend by
invitation. John Sheldrick, as Chairman of the
Committee, met the requirement of having
had recent and relevant financial experience,
having been Group Finance Director of
Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 until his
retirement in 2009. The Group Company
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee,
which also has access to the services of the
Group Finance Director, Senior Internal
Auditor, Group Business Risk Manager and
external professional advisors. The
Committee can request the attendance at
meetings of any director, external auditor or
Group employee as considered appropriate.
The Committee meets with the external
auditors without the presence of management
at two of its meetings during the year. 
Responsibilities and activities
during the year
The Audit Committee met three times in the
year under review. Its work covers the
following:
monitor the integrity of the Annual
Report, Full Year Results and Half Yearly
Financial Report;
review the going concern status of the
Company;
review analyst presentations at the half
year and full year;
review of internal financial controls and
the internal control management systems
including cyber security risk and potential
preventative measures;
monitor and review the effectiveness and
performance of the internal audit
function, including the approval of the
internal control programme and review
visits, and meet with the Senior Internal
Auditor at least once a year;
approve the Charter for Internal Audit;
review the risk management systems and
reports which are outlined in more detail
in the Business Review on page 21;
review procedures for detecting fraud;
review the Whistleblowing Policy annually;
review the whistleblowing report semi
annually;
review the summary of Group insurance
policies and levels of deductibles;
make recommendations to the Board in
relation to the appointment or
reappointment and remuneration of the
external auditors and their terms of
engagement, including approval of the
audit plan;
make recommendations to the Board
about putting the external audit out to
periodic tender;
ensure that the external auditors are
independent, objective and effective;
annually review the policy on non-audit
work carried out by the external auditors;
this policy takes into account external
guidance relating to the provision of non-
audit services;
review the schedule of non-audit work
carried out by the external auditors in the
year;
review non-audit fees of the external
auditors;
review the financial statements of the UK
Fenner Pension Scheme;
review the terms of reference for the
Audit Committee on an annual basis; and
review the Group’s treasury policies.
Financial reporting
The Audit Committee reviewed a wide range
of financial reporting and related matters in
respect of the Company’s half year and
annual results statements and its Annual
Report prior to their consideration by the
Board. In particular this included the
significant judgement areas of the accounting
for business combinations, the impairment of
goodwill, provisions, taxation and the main
assumptions underlying retirement benefit
obligations. Analysis to support the going
concern statement given on page 26 was also
reviewed with the Committee receiving
reports from management and the external
auditors on this matter. Reports highlighting
key accounting matters and significant
judgements were also received from our
external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP (“PwC”), in respect of the year end
statements and discussed by the Committee. 
Following consideration of the matters
presented to it and discussion with both
management and PwC, the Committee was
satisfied that the significant judgements
made were justified and that the financial
reporting disclosures made were appropriate. 
The Committee also reviewed management’s
half year and full year results presentations
for analysts and shareholders. 
Risk management and internal
control
The Group has a continuous process for
identifying, evaluating and managing risk,
Directors’ Report Governance
Corporate Governance continued
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
REPORT
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee 36
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
with the process itself being subject to
regular review and refinement. Risks are
reported to the Audit Committee twice a year
and the Committee has received updated
presentations from an independent
consultant, Maxaim, who are helping to run
the Group Risk Workshop programme in
conjunction with the Group Business Risk
Manager. The process is now well established
and enhancing both the Committee’s and
management’s understanding of risk in a
broad as well as specific sense in relation to
the Group and its operations. The Audit
Committee reviews the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control and
assures itself on the rigorousness of the
internal control process. The internal control
review covers operational, financial and
compliance controls. The Committee receives
a financial internal control report at least
twice a year from the Senior Internal Auditor.
Based upon the internal control and risk
reports, the Board determines the nature and
extent of the significant risks it is willing to
take in achieving strategic objectives and the
Board believes it does maintain sound risk
management and internal control systems. 
Whistleblowing
Fenner operates an international Group-wide
hotline to support the Group Whistleblowing
Policy. The hotline is run by an external and
independent third party. The hotline facilitates
arrangements whereby employees can make
confidential disclosures (on an anonymous
basis if preferred) about suspected
impropriety and wrongdoing. Any matters so
reported are investigated and escalated to the
Audit Committee as appropriate. A report
summarising all disclosures made during the
period is submitted to the Audit Committee
twice a year. 
External auditors
Independence
The Committee continues to monitor the
external auditors’ compliance with applicable
ethical guidance and guidelines and considers
the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors as part of the Committee’s
duties.
The Committee received and reviewed written
confirmation from the external auditors on all
relationships that, in their judgement, may
bear on their independence. The external
auditors have also confirmed that they
consider themselves independent within the
meaning of UK regulatory and professional
requirements. 
As a general principle, the external auditors
are excluded from consultancy work and
cannot be engaged by Fenner for other non-
audit work unless there are compelling
reasons to do so. The Committee periodically
reviews the Group’s policy on non-audit
services and those services which can be
provided by the external auditors under the
policy are set out in the table below. During
the year, non-audit services amounting to
£268,000 were incurred. This amount
comprised tax compliance of £33,000, tax
advisory of £104,000 and assurance services
of £131,000, principally relating to half year
agreed upon procedures.
Effectiveness and reappointment
The Committee evaluated the performance of
the external auditors during the year and
received a report from management on the
effectiveness of the external audit function;
this confirmed that the senior finance staff
around the Group felt that the external
auditors performed well. The report outlined
that a questionnaire had been issued to the
senior finance staff assessing the external
auditors on robustness of audit, quality of
delivery of the audit service and quality of the
audit team and service provided. The
Committee also made its own assessment of
the external auditors’ performance. The
Committee concluded that the performance of
the external auditors remained satisfactory
following the reviews. The performance of
PwC will continue to be reviewed annually.
Following the performance and effectiveness
evaluation, the Committee concluded it was
appropriate to recommend to the Board
PwC’s reappointment as the Company’s
external auditors for the next financial year. 
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code,
which will apply to Fenner in the financial year
ending 31 August 2014, has recommended
that FTSE 350 companies put their external
audit contract out to tender at least every ten
years. The Committee has considered this
recommendation and it has recommended to
the Board that the external audit contract be
put out to tender when the current audit
partner is due to rotate out of the post in
2016. Mindful of the Financial Reporting
Council’s advice on the impracticality of all
companies conducting a tender exercise at
the same time, the precise timing of this
exercise will be kept under review.
Internal audit
The Committee receives a report from the
Senior Internal Auditor at least twice a year.
The Committee reviewed the results of audits
undertaken by the internal audit team and
considered the adequacy of management’s
response to any matters raised, including the
implementation of any recommendations
made. The Committee considered and
approved the 2013 internal audit programme.
The effectiveness of internal audit was
formally reviewed, taking into account the
views of directors and senior management on
such matters as objectivity, proficiency,
resourcing and audit strategy and planning.  
In addition, an external review of internal
audit is being conducted. The results of that
review will be considered by the Committee
during the 2013/14 financial year.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee
13 November 2013
A detailed review of Risk Management is
set out on page 21
Prohibited non-audit services Permitted non-audit services, subject to
approval by the Committee
auditing their own work;
making management decisions for the
Company;
acting as advocate for the Company;
authorising, executing or consummating
a transaction on behalf of the Company;
determining which recommendation of
the audit firm should be implemented by
the Company;
internal audit services, other than
specific projects determined by the
Committee;
provision of IT consultancy;
legal services;
HR and recruitment consultancy; and
underwriting services.
taxation services;
specific projects on internal audit where
the scope and management is
determined by the Committee;
staff secondments where management
is clearly directing and controlling the
secondee and on the basis that the
secondee cannot make management
decisions;
litigation support services, providing it
does not include significant advocacy
from the audit partner; and
corporate financial services involving
advisory, acquisitions and disposals and
due diligence.
Policy on non-audit services by the external auditors 37
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Report Governance
The directors submit their management
report and the audited Group financial
statements for the financial year ended
31 August 2013.
Principal activities
Fenner PLC is a holding company which is a
public limited company listed on the London
Stock Exchange and is incorporated and
domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address
of the registered office is Hesslewood Country
Office Park, Ferriby Road, Hessle, East
Yorkshire, HU13 0PW. The principal activities
of the Group are detailed in the Business
Review on pages 5 to 26.
Results and dividends
2013 2012
£m £m 
Group profit for the year 49.2 62.4 
Dividends:
Interim 3.75p per share 
(2012: 3.5p) – payable 7.3 6.8
Final 7.5p per share 
(2012: 7.0p) – proposed 14.5 13.5
Total dividend 21.8 20.3
Donations
During the year, the Group made donations of
£108,000 (2012: £102,000) to charitable, social
and community related organisations. It is the
Group’s policy that no donations are made to
political parties.
Substantial shareholdings
As of 13 November 2013, the following
interests in shares have been notified to the
Company:
         % of issued
Interested party share capital
        
Standard Life Investments Limited           11.39
Threadneedle Asset Management 
Holdings Limited                                           7.62
Lloyds Banking Group Plc                            6.36
Norges Bank Investment Management      3.89
Montanaro Asset Management Limited     3.37
Directors and their interests
The names of the directors in office during the
year and up to the date of signing the financial
statements and their brief biographies and
other details, including other significant
commitments, are as shown on pages 27 to 28. 
Details of the directors’ beneficial interests in
the ordinary shares of the Company, in share
options over the ordinary share capital of the
Company and in the Performance Share Plan
are given in the Board Remuneration Report
on pages 40 to 48.
Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration
Report:
No director has any interest (beneficial or
non-beneficial) in any share or loan
capital of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries;
   No change in the interests of directors
has occurred between the end of the
financial year and 13 November 2013; and
There were no contracts of significance
subsisting during or at the end of the
financial year in which a director of the
Company was materially interested.
In accordance with the recommendation in the
UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors
will be offering themselves up for re-election
on an annual basis. The performance of each
of the directors continues to be effective and
they continue to demonstrate commitment to
the role and the Company.
Directors’ indemnities and
insurance cover
A qualifying third party indemnity (“QTPI”), as
permitted by the Company’s Articles of
Association and the Companies Act 2006, has
been granted by the Company to each of the
directors. Under the provisions of the QTPI,
the Company undertakes to indemnify each
director against claims from third parties in
respect of certain liabilities (excluding
criminal and regulatory penalties) arising out
of, or in connection with, the execution of their
powers, duties and responsibilities as
directors of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries. The Group also holds
appropriate Directors and Officers Liability
Insurance. These policies were in force during
the financial year ended 31 August 2013 and
remain in place at 13 November 2013.
Supplier payment policy
Given the international nature of the Group’s
operations, the Group does not operate a
standard code in respect of payments to
suppliers. Individual operating units are
responsible for agreeing the terms and
conditions under which transactions with their
suppliers are conducted, including the terms
of payment. It is the Group’s policy that
payments to suppliers are made in accordance
with these terms. The average creditor days
for the Group during the year ended 31 August
2013 was 55 days (2012: 54 days). The
Company does not have any trade creditors.
Employment policy
The Group operates worldwide and its
employment policies are designed to meet
local conditions and requirements, but are
established on the basis of the best practices
in each country and support the principles of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Wherever the Group operates, it encourages
the provision of equal employment
opportunities, thereby ensuring a competent
and diverse workforce. 
The Group’s policy is to secure good relations
between management and all employees, to
promote a better understanding of all the
issues, both internal and external, that
OTHER STATUTORY
INFORMATION
Mark Abrahams
Chairman 38
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
influence the Group’s business performance
and to improve performance and productivity.
Formal and informal meetings are used to
consult employees and to keep them informed
about the performance of the Group. The
practices of consultation and involvement vary
from country to country according to local
customs, legal considerations and the size of
the operation. The regular issue of the Group-
wide magazine “Fenner Focus” assists
internal communication, as do briefing
meetings, information bulletins and meetings
with employee representatives.
The Group continues to recognise its social and
statutory duties to disabled persons and does
all that is practicable to meet this
responsibility. Full and fair consideration is
given to the recruitment, training, career
development and promotion of disabled
persons, bearing in mind the aptitude and
ability of the individual concerned. If an
employee becomes disabled while employed
by the Group, wherever possible, he or she will
continue to be employed in the same job. If this
action is not practicable or possible then every
effort will be made to find suitable alternative
employment. In these circumstances,
retraining would be made available using
Group resources as well as by contact with the
local disabilities employment advisor .
Environmental policy
The Group recognises and accepts that
concern for the environment is an integral
and fundamental part of the Group’s
corporate business strategy.
Financial risk management
Details of the Group’s financial risk
management policies are given in the
Business Review on page 25 and note 20 to the
Group financial statements on pages 80 to 82.
Statutory information
Set out below is a summary of certain
provisions of the Company’s current Articles
of Association (the “Articles”) and the
Companies Act 2006 (“Companies Act”). If
further information is required, the relevant
provisions of the Articles and the Companies
Act should be consulted. 
Share capital
Details of the Company’s issued share capital
as at 31 August 2013, together with details of
shares issued during the year, are set out in
note 8 to the Company financial statements on
page 101. Each ordinary share of the Company
carries one vote. The Company has a single
class of share capital which is divided into
ordinary shares of 25p each.
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies
Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution,
from time to time declare dividends not
exceeding the amount recommended by the
Board. The Board may pay interim dividends,
including fixed rate dividends, whenever the
financial position of the Company, in the
opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
Dividends will be paid pro-rata to the amounts
paid up on the shares. In specie and scrip
dividends can be authorised at a General
Meeting at the Board’s recommendation.
Voting rights
Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching
to any shares by or in accordance with the
Articles, at a General Meeting, every member
who is present in person or by proxy shall have
one vote and, on a poll, every member present
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for
each share. In the case of joint holders of a
share, the vote of the senior holder who
tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy,
shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes
of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined
by the order in which the names of the holders
stand in the register . 
Restrictions on voting
Unless the Board determine otherwise, no
member shall be entitled to vote at a General
Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in
respect of any share held unless all moneys
are fully paid up on that share. In addition, no
member shall be entitled to vote if he has been
served with a notice after failure to provide the
Company with information concerning
interests in those shares required to be
provided under the Companies Act.
Deadline for exercising voting rights
Voting rights may be exercised in person, by
proxy or by a Corporate Representative. The
deadline for submission of proxy forms is not
less than 48 hours before the time appointed
for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights
Subject to the provisions of legislation, the
Articles specify that rights attaching to any
class of shares may be varied or abrogated,
either with the consent in writing of the holders
of three-quarters in nominal value of the
issued shares of the class being varied or with
the sanction of a special resolution passed at a
separate General Meeting of the holders of the
shares of that class.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of certificated shares may be in
any usual form or in any other form which the
Board may approve. The instrument of transfer
shall be signed by or on behalf of the
transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by
or on behalf of the transferee. An instrument of
transfer need not be under seal. Transfers of
shares which are in uncertificated form are
effected by means of the CREST system.
The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a
share which is not fully paid, provided that the
refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in
the Company from taking place on an open and
proper basis. In the case of uncertificated shares,
the Board may exercise its discretion to refuse to
register a transfer of a share to the extent
permitted by the regulations and the facilities and
requirements of the relevant system.
The Board may also refuse to register the
transfer of a certificated share unless the
instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped
(if stampable) at the office or at another place
appointed by the Board, accompanied by the
certificate for the share to which it relates and
such other evidence as the Board may
reasonably require to show the right of the
transferor to make the transfer (and, if the
instrument of transfer is executed by some other
person on his or her behalf, the authority of that
person to do so); is in respect of only one class of
shares; and is in favour of not more than four
transferees.
If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a
share, it shall send the transferee notice of its
refusal together with reasons for the refusal
within two months after the date on which the
instrument of transfer was lodged with the
Company. 
Appointment and replacement of directors
Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the
number of directors (other than alternate
directors) shall be not less than two nor more
than 15 in number .
At each AGM, all directors shall retire from
office and be eligible for re-election, in line with
best corporate practice. 
The Board may appoint a director either to fill a
casual vacancy or as an additional director
provided that the appointment does not cause
the number of directors to exceed the maximum
prescribed by the Articles. A director so
appointed shall hold office only until the next
following AGM. If not re-elected at such AGM,
the director shall vacate office at its conclusion.
Powers of directors
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act
and Articles and to any directions given by
special resolution, the business of the Company
shall be managed by the Board which may
exercise all the powers of the Company. 
The Board may exercise all the powers of the
Company to borrow money, to mortgage or
charge all or any part of its undertaking,
property, assets (present or future) and
uncalled capital and to issue debentures and
other securities whether outright or as
collateral security for any debt, liability or
obligation of the Company or of any third party. 
A detailed review of the Group’s
employment policy is set out in Corporate
Responsibility on pages 51 to 52
A detailed review of the Group’s
environmental policy is set out in Corporate
Responsibility on pages 52 to 54
The Group Environmental Policy can be
viewed at www.fenner .com 39
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act
and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Board
may request authority to allot shares and the
power to disapply the statutory pre-emption
rights and the authority to buy the Company's
own ordinary shares in the market. Currently
the Board requests such consent at each AGM.
The details of requested authorities and
powers in connection with the AGM to be held
on 15 January 2014 are set out in the Notice of
Annual General Meeting.
Significant agreements: change of control
All of the Company’s current share plans
contain provisions relating to a change of
control. Outstanding awards and options would
normally vest and become exercisable on a
change of control, subject to the satisfaction of
any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment to Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Articles may be made
in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Independent auditors
A resolution to re-appoint
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent
auditors to the Company will be proposed at
the AGM.
As far as each director is aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware. Each
director has taken all the steps that they ought
to have taken as a director in order to make
themselves aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
Annual General Meeting
As special business at the forthcoming AGM,
resolutions will be proposed to renew the
directors’ authority to allot shares, to disapply
the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited
extent and to make market purchases of
ordinary shares in the Company subject to
defined limits. Resolutions will also be
proposed to hold General Meetings on 14 days
notice. The proposed resolutions and further
details regarding these proposals are set out
in the Chairman’s explanatory letter
accompanying the Notice of Annual General
Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
13 November 2013
Directors’ Report Governance
Other Statutory Information continued 40
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Dear Shareholder
Our people are key to enabling Fenner’s
success. Therefore the Group’s remuneration
policy is structured to meet our aim of being a
“strong, growing, resilient” company
generating sustainable long-term returns for
employees and shareholders alike.
Group performance remains a key
consideration when setting remuneration
levels but the overarching aim of the
remuneration policy has to be to reward the
executive directors and senior managers
appropriately for their hard work,
commitment, drive, experience, leadership
skills and performance against Group
objectives, while balancing the interests of
shareholders. As with all well run and
successful companies, to execute our strategy
and meet the demanding targets set for the
Group, we have to carefully position ourselves
in the market to attract, motivate and retain
the best available talent.
Against somewhat difficult trading conditions,
the Group still managed to achieve strong
results, albeit below the 2012 outturn.
Consequently, the annual bonus programme
for the executive directors has resulted in a nil
award for the year. We believe that this
demonstrates the alignment of our
remuneration policies and practices with the
performance of the Group and the interests of
shareholders. Remuneration incentives are
deliberately set with challenging targets given
the markets in which the Group operates, but
we do also expect that those same principles
and targets will reward generously when
results show growth against the stated
objectives and strategy of the Group. We feel
that overall this is fair and equitable and in the
interests of Fenner and shareholders alike.
In order to promote understanding and gain
clarity we believe in remuneration policies
which are simple wherever possible and avoid
complexities that may refine targets but
reduce understanding.
2013 outcomes
The outcomes of the various plans that make
up the 2013 total remuneration for executive
directors are summarised in the table on page
46.
Bonus
The annual bonus has a performance target
based on growth in underlying earnings per
share (“EPS”) of the Company; the targets are
set at the beginning of each financial year and
are aligned with some of the KPIs of the
Company. The EPS performance target was
not met and therefore no bonuses will be paid
to the executive directors for the financial year
ended 31 August 2013. 
Performance Share Plan
The long-term incentive plan in the form of
the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) had two
performance targets for the three year
Performance Period ended  31 August 2013:
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) against an
appropriate peer group of companies; and
growth in underlying EPS of the Company. The
TSR performance over this period ended
below the median and therefore no award will
be made under that performance metric.
However, over the performance period, the
EPS performance did exceed the target and
cap for that measure and therefore there will
be a final allotment of shares equating to 33%
of the initial award, although the final value of
those shares will not be known until after the
printing date for this Annual Report. This
further demonstrates that while the Group
operates in markets which can be cyclical, the
underlying strong performance of the Group
can still result in an appropriate level of
long-term award.
It should be noted that payment of a long-term
incentive cash award was made to Nicholas
Hobson but this relates to his employment
with the Group prior to his appointment as CEO.
Basic annual salary and other benefits
Salary increases of 4.7% and 3.7% were
awarded to Nicholas Hobson and Richard
Perry respectively at the start of the year
under review. Pension contributions and
pension allowances remained unchanged as a
constant percentage of salary. Nicholas
Hobson received reimbursement for on-going
relocation expenses as per the terms of his
Service Agreement.  
2014 policy
For the financial year ending 31 August 2014,
the overall policy for the executive directors
remains largely unchanged and is summarised
on pages 41 to 42. The remuneration package
broadly consists of basic annual salary, an
annual performance related bonus, a long-
term share-based incentive plan, retirement
benefits and benefits in kind. In the case of
Nicholas Hobson there may also be some
continuing reimbursement of costs and
expenses arising from his relocation. The
salaries and incentive programmes continue to
reflect performance of the individuals and
performance against Group metrics. Nicholas
Hobson has had an increase to his PSP
provisional entitlement to raise it to 100% of
basic salary from 70% of basic salary to reflect
his growing experience and success in the role
of CEO. This considered acceleration of
benefits has been highlighted in our previous
two Board Remuneration Reports, where the
Remuneration Committee has stated that
remuneration would increase as Nicholas
Hobson developed into his CEO role
successfully.  
Report format
The UK government has issued regulations on
the revised reporting requirements for
directors’ remuneration effective for the year
ending 31 August 2014. Although not
Directors’ Report Remuneration
BOARD REMUNERATION
REPORT
Alan Wood
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE’S STATEMENT 41
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Changes for year ending
31 August 2014
Base salary Core element of fixed
remuneration reflecting the
individual’s role, skills and
experience.
Market competitive
packages are provided to
attract, retain and motivate
high calibre people to the
roles.
Increases to base salary tend
to be in line with the wider
Group. Higher increases may
be awarded in exceptional
circumstances or in line with
previously stated policy (as in
the case of the CEO).
Increases could reflect an
increase in scope and
responsibility or promotion.
Nicholas Hobson’s salary is
partly denominated in US
dollars and the reported
amounts in sterling will vary
with changes to the
sterling/US dollar rate of
exchange.
Group performance and
results as well as
individual performance,
experience and
effectiveness are taken
into account when setting
salaries. 
Reviewed annually with
external advice being
sought from time to time
along with salary trends in
comparable companies as
appropriate. 
Benchmarked
externally from time to
time as appropriate.
Individual performance
is one of the
considerations when
setting base salary
awards.
Increases from 1 September
2013 were 6.0% for Nicholas
Hobson and 2.9% for
Richard Perry; these
increases take account of
and are compatible with
increases awarded to
employees in our western
economies. 
Increases reflect strong
individual performances
during the year (see
explanatory note below for
further details). 
Remuneration policy table for executive directors for 2013
Directors’ Report Remuneration
Board Remuneration Report continued
mandatory for this year’s Report, the
Committee has sought to comply with the new
requirements where it is practical to do so,
while still remaining compliant with existing
regulations. Therefore this Report has been
split into two sections: a Remuneration Policy
Report, which sets out the remuneration policy
of the executive and non-executive directors;
and an Annual Remuneration Report, which
discloses how the current remuneration policy
has been implemented in the year ended 31
August 2013. We will be seeking shareholder
support for both parts of the report by way of a
single advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on
15 January 2014.
I intend to meet with a number of key
shareholders during 2014 to gain a deeper
understanding of their perspectives on
remuneration and to discuss the remuneration
policy ahead of it going to a binding vote at the
AGM in 2015. The discussions will also consult
on plans to replace the current PSP with a new
plan before the existing scheme comes to the
end of its term. In the year under review, the
Chairman of the Board and the Senior
Independent Director provided the Committee
with feedback from major shareholders on
their views on remuneration; this feedback has
been borne in mind by the Committee when
setting remuneration for the executive
directors.  
The Committee’s remuneration policy will
continue to strive to have a rewards structure
that is fair, recognises achievement and
maintains the ability of the Group to recruit and
retain the best talent in the interests of all
shareholders. Any elements of the discretion
that the Committee may want to reserve under
the remuneration policy will be set out in the
Board Remuneration Report in 2014 once
those aspects have been discussed both
internally and externally.
Alan Wood
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
13 November 2013
Remuneration policy and philosophy
When setting the remuneration policy, the
following principles and objectives are borne in
mind:
maintain the ability of the Group to attract,
recruit and retain the best people with the
qualities, experience and skills necessary
to operate and develop its businesses;
reward hard work, commitment, drive,
experience and leadership skills;
have a fair structure that recognises and
rewards achievement and is aligned with
the strategic goals of the Group; 
in recognition of the Group’s global nature,
have a package of reward with both short
and long-term incentives, thereby helping
to promote its long-term growth and
stability; 
align the interests of the executives with
those of the shareholders by rewarding
them for enhancing shareholder value and
performing at the highest level;
have a remuneration policy that
appropriately incentivises without
detracting from the goals of good
corporate governance; and
when setting remuneration and developing
the remuneration policy, take into
consideration the views of shareholders
and best practice guidelines.
When considering remuneration packages for
the executive directors, the Remuneration
Committee is aware of and takes into
consideration the pay and conditions of
employees across the Group, particularly when
considering any increases in base salary.
Consideration is being given to a suitable
comparator group to compare the percentage
change in the CEO salary, benefits and short-
terms incentives with that of a wider employee
group. This is something the Committee will
put in place for the reporting year ending 31
August 2014. Given the nature, complexity,
geographic spread and autonomous nature of
the Group operations, the Committee is keen
to ensure that the chosen comparator group is
suitable and provides a sensible robust metric
to compare increases in CEO remuneration
against.  
The Committee recognises that it may on
occasion have to step outside the stated
remuneration policy in order to attract,
motivate and retain particular individuals.  
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT 42
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Changes for year ending
31 August 2014
Retirement
benefits
To ensure that sufficient
pension provision in
retirement is provided.
Part of the package to
attract, retain and motivate
employees.
The CEO is entitled to a
pension allowance of 26% of
base salary; part is paid into a
defined contribution plan and
part is delivered in cash. 
The Group Finance Director
participated in the Company’s
defined benefit scheme until
April 2012 and now receives a
pension allowance of 88.2%
of base salary. 
Positioned to be
competitive with the
market.
Some legacy pension
arrangements in respect of
Richard Perry are
explained further in the
note below.
Not applicable. None.
Benefits in
kind
To provide benefits in line
with normal corporate
practice.
Variable but include car
allowance, phone allowance,
private medical insurance,
business travel and
subsistence, reimbursement
of relocation expenses (where
appropriate) and other
ancillary benefits including
repatriation expenses (where
appropriate).
The car allowance is
generally set periodically
and increased annually by
RPI. Other expenses are
paid as they arise or are
reviewed periodically.
Not applicable. CEO car allowance to
increase automatically by
RPI annually to be
consistent with the Group
Finance Director.
Annual
bonus
scheme
The performance target is
growth in underlying EPS,
which is a stated KPI of the
Company and has been
selected as being important
to the success of the Group
in delivering its strategic
objectives, which in turn
helps to deliver long-term
sustainable growth and
value.
Underlying EPS is viewed by
the Committee as having an
inherent link to inflation.
Maximum award currently
100% of base salary for the
CEO and 70% of base salary
for the Group Finance
Director.
In exceptional circumstances
such as recruiting to a role,
the Committee would
consider extending the bonus
of an incoming executive
director beyond 100% of base
pay if necessary to attract a
key person into a role.
Focused on delivery of
growth in underlying EPS
to drive the long-term
success of the Company.
Reviewed annually. 
The Committee takes
account of material
corporate events and their
impact on EPS when
making final bonus awards
so that they are not
artificially impacted by
major acquisitions,
disposals or significant
change to the issued share
capital of the Company. 
100% based on EPS
growth which is felt to
be a challenging but
achievable target.
The bonus will pay out
for underlying EPS
growth capped at 16%,
with payments linear
between 0% and 16%. 
No bonus will pay out
unless there is growth
in underlying EPS
compared to the
previous year. 
No change to quantum or
performance targets. 
Long-term
incentive -
PSP
Provides a clear link
between the remuneration
of executive directors and
members of the Group
Executive Committee and
the long-term value
creation for shareholders
and the Company.
The PSP can issue
conditional awards up to
150% of base salary in
normal circumstances (rising
to 300% of base salary in
exceptional circumstances
such as recruitment).  
The current plan generally
makes conditional awards
based on 70% of base salary
for all members except the
CEO who will receive
conditional awards based on
100% of base salary. 
There is a dividend roll up
applied to the conditional
awards which is accrued over
the Plan Cycle and added to
the original conditional award
before the final allotment of
shares is made. 
Reviewed annually by the
Committee.
The performance targets
are discussed in detail by
the Committee each year
and are set with the aim of
encouraging and
motivating appropriate
behaviour which is aligned
with the careful running
and management of the
Group. Part of the
assessment includes the
degree of challenge
provided by the targets in
the current economic
environment.
67% Relative TSR
against the PSP Peer
Group and 33% growth
in underlying EPS. 
Performance is
measured over three
years. 
No awards will vest
unless the Committee
is satisfied that TSR and
EPS performance
reflect the Company’s
underlying financial
performance. 
Vested shares are
retained for a further
three years.
Increase in the maximum
award for the CEO in line
with market norms and to
reflect the package
alignment as indicated in
previous Annual Reports.
Shareholding
guidelines
Promotes share ownership
and aligns the interests of
the executive directors with
both the Company and
shareholders.
Executive Directors to hold
the equivalent of 100% of
base salary in the Company’s
shares.
On-going requirement. Not applicable. None.
Remuneration policy table for executive directors for 2013 continued 43
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Report Remuneration
Board Remuneration Report continued
Additional detail on remuneration
policy
Base salary
As previously reported, the salary of the CEO is
being increased over time to an appropriate
level in line with the responsibilities and scope
of the role, his initial salary having been below
market levels on taking on the role of CEO in
March 2011
Retirement benefits
Nicholas Hobson is in receipt of a pension
entitlement equivalent to 26% of his annual
salary, part of which is paid into an
occupational defined contribution plan; the
balance is paid in cash and the Company does
not retain any responsibility for the investment
performance of the pension payments.  
Richard Perry retains benefits in the defined
benefit section of the Fenner Pension Scheme
where he became a postponed member under
the Scheme from April 2012. From April 2012,
Richard Perry receives a Pension Allowance
under the terms of his Service Agreement
which is equivalent to the total cost the
Company previously incurred to meet the
contracted pension arrangement he was
entitled to in the Fenner Pension Scheme,
plus the top up Pension Allowance which was
designed to enable him to enhance his pension
provision up to two-thirds of remuneration.
Richard Perry retains full discretion in how he
chooses to invest the Pension Allowance
payments and the Company does not retain any
responsibility for the investment performance.
The Pension Allowance paid to Richard Perry
has been frozen at a fixed percentage of base
salary. Richard Perry’s pension entitlement
should be viewed as a legacy arrangement, set
when such pension payments were the norm
and were in line with remuneration practice and
packages for senior executives at the time of
his appointment. Future executives would have
a more prescribed pension arrangement as
befits current remuneration practice and
mores. 
Shareholding guidelines
An Executive Management Share Ownership
Policy was introduced in 2011, setting the
expectation that executive directors hold the
equivalent of 100% of salary in the Company’s
shares and members of the Executive
Committee to hold the equivalent of 50% of
salary in the Company’s shares, at the point of
acquisition of the shares. The Policy allows
shares to be sold to settle tax liabilities on
them and for retirement planning purposes.
The Policy aims to encourage executives to
build and maintain a meaningful shareholding
in the Company which can be achieved by the
retention of shares vesting under the long-
term incentive arrangements and the purchase
of shares in the market. This helps ensure that
their interests are aligned with those of
shareholders. Both executive directors
currently hold shares exceeding the
shareholding guidelines.
Chairman and non-executive directors
The Chairman and non-executive directors are
generally appointed for fixed three year terms,
with provision for additional fixed term
appointments as deemed appropriate and in
the best interests of the Company.
The non-executive directors do not participate
in any of the Group’s bonus or share incentive
schemes nor do they accrue any pension
entitlement. 
Effective date of service Unexpired term at                              Notice
contract/letter of appointment 31 August 2013                              period
Executive directors
Nicholas Hobson 1 March 2011 -                    1 year
Richard Perry 5 April 2012 -                    1 year
Non-executive directors
Mark Abrahams 1 March 2011 6 months                    1 year
Vanda Murray 11 January 2012 17 months                    1 year
David Buttfield* 12 January 2012 -                             -
Alan Wood 1 April 2013 31 months                    1 year
John Sheldrick 1 September 2013 36 months                    1 year 
*David Buttfield elected to retire at the conclusion of the AGM in January 2013.
The executive directors have rolling 12 month
contracts. The Company has agreed to the
payment of a prescribed sum equivalent to 12
month’s salary and contractual benefits if
there is a change of control or termination of
their contracts by the Company other than for
cause.
The service contracts do not contain any
provision for compensation on early
termination other than the notice period and
the provision noted above. The Committee will
seek to mitigate the cost to the Company
while dealing fairly with each individual case.
The details of the service contracts in relation
to the executive directors and letters of
appointment in relation to the Chairman and
non-executive directors who served as
directors during the year are as follows:
Directors’ service contracts and termination payments
Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Changes for year ending
31 August 2014
Fees To attract, motivate and
retain the best non-
executive talent for the role.
Not applicable. Increased annually by RPI.
The remuneration of the
non-executive directors is
determined by the Board
as a whole (with individuals
absenting themselves from
discussions relating
directly to their own
remuneration). 
Benchmarked
externally from time to
time as appropriate.
Fees had been reviewed
every three years but from
April 2013 they will be
increased by RPI each year.
Benefits in
kind
In line with market practice. The non-executive Chairman
receives a car allowance. 
Travel and subsistence
expenses are paid by the
Company.
Not applicable. Not applicable. Not applicable.
Remuneration policy table for non-executive directors & Chairman for 2013 External appointments
External non-executive appointments broaden
the experience and knowledge of the executive
directors, which in turn is of benefit to the
Company. Executive directors may, subject to
approval by the Board and providing there is no
conflict of interest, be allowed to accept
appointments as a non-executive director of
another company (with only one such
appointment allowed in a FTSE 100 company).
The CEO, Nicholas Hobson, does not currently
hold any external non-executive positions. The
Group Finance Director, Richard Perry, is a
non-executive director of Scapa Group plc and
retained fees of £42,000 in relation to Scapa
Group plc’s year ended 31 March 2013. 
Reward scenarios
The following table shows how the composition
of each of the executive directors’
remuneration packages varies at different
levels of performance achievement. This is an
estimate of future reward opportunity split
between the various elements of remuneration
showing opportunity for on-target, maximum
and below-target performance.
44
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Base salary
The CEO received a salary increase of 6.0%
from 1 September 2013, reflecting his
continued progress and proven track record as
CEO and his increasing knowledge and
experience in the role. This increase is an
above-inflation award in line with previously
stated intent of increasing the CEO salary up
from its original low base in line with growing
experience in the role. The Group Finance
Director received an increase of 2.9% from
1 September 2013; the Committee believe that
the salary increase is fair but not excessive and
in line with the solid performance of the Group
in the last twelve months and continuing strong
performance and leadership shown by Richard
Perry in the Group Finance Director role. Their
base salaries following the pay review on
1 September 2013 are £430,334 (Nicholas
Hobson) and £260,500 (Richard Perry).
Retirement benefits
A new UK defined contribution plan was put in
place in April 2013 and pension contributions
are paid into that plan for Nicholas Hobson,
with the balance of his 26% entitlement being
paid as a cash pension allowance over which he
has full discretion in how he chooses to invest it.  
Richard Perry continues to receive his Pension
Allowance of 88.2% of basic salary as a cash
sum over which he also has full discretion in
how he chooses to invest it.
Annual bonus
The executive directors will not be in receipt of
a bonus under the short-term incentive plan
for the year ending 31 August 2013 because the
performance target of growth in underlying
EPS of the Company was not achieved. 
For the year ending 31 August 2014, the annual
bonus is again based on year-on-year growth
in underlying EPS, with a bonus cap at 16%
growth and payments linear between 0%
growth and 16% growth. No bonus is payable
unless there is growth in underlying EPS
compared to the prior year . Nicholas Hobson’s
bonus cap is at 100% of basic annual salary
while Richard Perry’s cap is at 70% of basic
annual salary.
Long-term incentive - PSP
The policy of granting awards based on 70% of
salary will be applied to the 2013/14 award for
the Group Finance Director and members of
the Executive Committee. Nicholas Hobson will
be granted a conditional award based on 100%
of his annual basic salary.
The primary performance condition used in the
PSP is relative TSR. TSR performance accounts
for 67% of the potential award. The Committee
considers that TSR, which comprises, inter alia,
dividend yield and share price movement in
comparison with the PSP Peer Group, remains
a fair measure of long-term performance as it
aligns the interests of executives with
shareholders and reflects market conditions in
the Group’s industrial sector.
A peer group of companies from the FTSE All
Share Industrial Engineering Sector and the
General Industrials and Electronic & Electrical
Equipment Sectors (“PSP Peer Group”) have
been carefully selected to measure the
Company’s TSR performance against. The PSP
Peer Group is a group of businesses similar in
nature to the Company and which represents
alternative investment options for our
shareholders.
In addition to TSR, there is a performance
element relating to underlying EPS growth in
the Company. EPS performance accounts for
33% of the potential award. This EPS element
is aligned to the Company’s strategy of
developing its global position and underlying
earnings and, being measured over a three
year period, it encourages focus on longer-
term profitable growth. Structural changes to
the Group are taken into account by the
Committee to ensure that the outcome of an
annual bonus plan or PSP Plan Cycle is not
artificially impacted by material corporate
events such as major acquisitions, disposals or
significant change to the issued share capital
of the Company. 
The PSP is the sole long-term incentive vehicle
for executives and is designed to encourage its
participants to deliver sustained long-term
performance and above market returns to
shareholders. The Remuneration Committee
insists that any shares allotted under the PSP
at the end of a Plan Cycle are then held for a
further three years, although discretion can be
applied in exceptional circumstances. This
added stricture on holding the shares further
aligns the long-term interests of the
shareholders with the long-term incentive
programme that the executive directors and
Executive Committee participate in. Shares can
also be sold to settle the tax liability on share
allotments under the PSP.  
The following sections of the Board Remuneration Report are audited.
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT
£000
0
300
600
900
1200
1500
Maximum On-target
Chief Executive Officer
Minimum
0
300
600
900
1200
1500
Maximum On-target
Group Finance Director
Minimum
Bonus PSP Fixed Pay
Note: On-target assumes 50% of potential maximum award under short and long-term incentive plans Rewards under the PSP are linked to the
Company's performance against demanding
targets over three year periods (“Performance
Periods”). A conditional award of ordinary
shares is based on a percentage of the
participant's annual basic salary up to a
permitted normal maximum of 150%. The
grant policy currently and historically under the
PSP is to make awards of 70% of salary (which
is below median of comparable benchmarks)
although Nicholas Hobson will be granted an
award based on 100% of salary from 2013 as
previously discussed. 
Both TSR and EPS are measured over the
three years from the end of the financial year
preceding the year in which the award is made.
Prior to each grant being made, the EPS
performance targets will be reviewed to ensure
that they remain challenging.
The Remuneration Committee will be
consulting with major shareholders on plans
for a new long-term incentive programme to
replace the current PSP when it reaches the
end of its 10 year life. The final plan cycle
under the current PSP has to be issued before
9 January 2017.
EPS target
When we look over a three year period the
performance of the Group looks strong and
this is reflected in the long-term plan. The EPS
target for the short-term incentive programme
requires underlying EPS to increase over the
prior year, with growth of 16% providing a
maximum payout. In the year under review, the
final underlying EPS outturn was below the
prior year and therefore no amount was
payable. The EPS target over the three year
performance period for the PSP requires
underlying EPS to increase by at least 25%,
with growth of 40% providing a maximum
payout. Underlying EPS grew in excess of 40%
over the performance period and this will
result in a final award of 33% of the conditional
award under the EPS performance condition of
the PSP. The shares under the 5th Plan Cycle
of the PSP cannot be allotted until after the
Company releases its Full Year Results and
therefore the final value of that allotment is not
known at the time this report was written.
45
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Report Remuneration
Board Remuneration Report continued
Relative TSR over
three years
% of share award
vesting
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Between median
and upper decile
Between 25% and
100% on straight-
line basis
Upper decile 100%
Underlying EPS
growth over three
years
% of share award
vesting
25% or below 0%
Between 25% and
40%
Between 0% and
100% on straight-
line basis
40% 100%
Single figure of remuneration
The following table provides a single figure for remuneration of the executive directors. In calculating this figure, we have used the methodology
proposed by the Financial Reporting Lab at the Financial Reporting Council.
Nicholas Hobson                  Richard Perry
2013 2012 2013                        2012   
£000 £000 £000                        £000  
Base salary 403 383 253                  244
Benefits 42 48 23                    23
Pension 105 100 223                  193
Annual bonus - 383 -                  171
PSP/Long-term incentive 285 340 350                  361
Currency adjustment 6 - -                      -
Total 841 1,254 849                  992
Chief Executive Officer five year historic pay figures
The table below shows Nicholas Hobson’s
total remuneration since March 2011 when
he took office. It also shows total
remuneration for Mark Abrahams for the
years from 2009 to the end of February 2011
when he stepped down as CEO and became
the non-executive Chairman of the Group.
The table also shows annual bonus and PSP
vesting outcomes. The total remuneration
figure is calculated on the same basis as the
single figures given above.
Financial year Incumbent CEO total Annual bonus               PSP vesting  
remuneration outcome                     outcome
£000 % of max.                   % of max.
2013 Nicholas Hobson 841 0%                 100%
2012 Nicholas Hobson 1,254 100%                   46%
2011 (from 1 March 2011 to 31 August 2011) Nicholas Hobson 456 100%                     n/a
2011 (from 1 September 2010 to 28 February 2011) Mark Abrahams 648 100%                   50%
2010 Mark Abrahams 901 100%                 100%
2009 Mark Abrahams 635 0%                     0% 46
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Dilution limits
Fenner share plans comply with the current
ABI Guidelines on headroom which provide that
overall dilution under all plans should not
exceed 10% over a 10 year period in relation to
the Company’s issued share capital, with a
further limitation of 5% in any 10 year period
on executive plans. Assuming none of the
outstanding awards lapse and will be exercised
and having included all exercised awards, as at
31 August 2013, the Company has utilised
1.92% of the 10% in 10 years limit and 1.92% of
the 5% in 10 years limit.
The performance chart illustrates the
Company’s TSR over the past five years
compared to the TSR of the FTSE All Share
Industrial Engineering Index and the FTSE 250.
The Committee obtains appropriate third party
confirmation of the extent to which the PSP
targets are met.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Aug‘13 Aug‘12 Aug‘11 Aug‘10 Aug‘09 Aug‘08
FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index Fenner PLC FTSE 250 Index
FTSE All Share
Industrial
Fenner FTSE 250 Engineering 
PLC Index Index
31 August 2008 100 100 100
31 August 2009 58 97 92
31 August 2010 101 111 142
31 August 2011 185 122 194
31 August 2012 179 137 206
31 August 2013 182 180 292
Total Shareholder Return
This graph shows the value, by 31 August 2013, of £100 invested in Fenner PLC on 31 August
2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and FTSE All Share
Industrial Engineering Index on the same date. These indices have been chosen because the
Company has been a constituent for the majority of the period illustrated. The other points
plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters
Directors’ detailed emoluments
Annual
performance Other Total Total Annual pension Annual pension
Annual salary Benefits in related long-term emoluments emoluments allowance allowance
or fees kind bonus incentives 2013 2012 2013 2012
££ £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive directors
Nicholas Hobson (1) 402,672 41,864 - 129,334 573,870 813,850 104,694 99,534
Richard Perry (2) 253,250 23,289 -- 276,539 437,997 223,290 192,701
Non-executive directors (3)
Mark Abrahams 120,000 6,875 -- 126,875 125,523 - -
Vanda Murray (4) 49,666 935 - - 50,601 31,198 - -
Alan Wood 45,130 1,132 -- 46,262 44,095 - -
John Sheldrick 44,375 495 -- 44,870 42,500 - -
David Buttfield (5) 18,239 713 -- 18,952 48,407 - -
933,332 75,303 - 129,334 1,137,969 1,543,570 327,984 292,235
The Board did not waive any emoluments in respect of the
year ended 31 August 2013.
(1) Nicholas Hobson’s annual salary and performance related
bonus are partly denominated in US dollars and converted
to sterling for payment purposes. The reported amounts in
sterling will vary with changes to the sterling/US dollar
rate of exchange. His benefits in kind include a car
allowance, healthcare insurance and reimbursement of
continuing relocation costs. No annual performance
related bonus is due for the year ended 31 August 2013.
However, £129,334 was paid in the year comprising £6,131
relating to a difference in the reported amount of his 2012
bonus due to changes in the US dollar exchange rate and
£123,203 being the payment of a long-term incentive award
which related to the period before he was appointed CEO in
March 2011. No further awards are due under this plan.
The pension allowance includes £30,588 of company
contributions into the defined contribution section of the
Fenner Pension Scheme and, from April 2013, the Fenner
Retirement Plan.
(2) Richard Perry’s benefits in kind include a car allowance,
telephone allowance and healthcare insurance. In 2012, the
Pension Allowance is for part of the year only and
additional pension was accrued until April 2012 into a
defined benefit pension scheme. There was no additional
pension accrual in 2013.
(3) The non-executive directors’ benefits in kind comprise
travel expenses. In addition, Mark Abrahams also has a car
allowance.
(4) Vanda Murray’s 2012 emoluments relate to the period from
her date of appointment on 11 January 2012.
(5) David Buttfield’s 2013 emoluments relate to the period up
to 16 January 2013, when he retired from the Board.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
£m
Total Pay Dividends Profit after taxation
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 05 10 15 20 25 30 0 15 30 45 60 75 90
£248.3m
£231.6m
£21.8m
£20.3m
£49.2m
£62.4m
2012 2013
+7% +7% -21%
The graph below shows the Group’s total expenditure on pay, Company dividends and profit
after taxation relating to the year and the prior year and the percentage change year-on-year . 47
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
(1) These represent the total conditional and final awards
made to Nicholas Hobson, part of which relate to the
period before he was appointed CEO on 1 March 2011.
£80,791 of the final value awarded during the year relates
pro-rata to the period since he became CEO.
(2) This award relates to the period up to 28 February 2011
when Mark Abrahams had been CEO. No awards relate to
his period as Chairman since 1 March 2011.
* The Performance Periods for each of the PSP Plan Cycles
run for three years from 1 September in the year the Plan
Cycle was conditionally awarded to 31 August in the year of
the third anniversary of the Plan Cycle.
** Dividend roll ups have been applied since 2008 in line with
the PSP Rules. They accrue over the Plan Cycle and are
added to the original conditional award before the final
award and allotment of shares is made.
The performance criteria attached to the conditional award of
shares made on 14 November 2012 relate to the Company’s
TSR which is compared with the TSR of the PSP Peer Group in
the Company and the EPS performance target.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of
scheme interests during the year.
The Plan Cycle that ended on 17 November 2012 was
independently evaluated and resulted in an award of 100% of
the conditional award plus the dividend roll up that was
applied to the conditional award over the three year Plan
Cycle. The market value (as defined in the PSP Rules) of an
ordinary share of the Company at the beginning of the Plan
Cycle was 182.64p, at the end of the Plan Cycle was 384.06p
and at 14 November 2012 for the 7th PSP was 358.12p.
Share schemes
None of the directors held any share options during the year.
Awards to executive directors under the PSP were as follows:
    
                                                                       Conditional Dividend roll up Conditional End of
                                                                                award Conditional applied to award Performance
                                                                    1 September award in conditional award Shares Shares 31 August Period & Award
                                                                                  2012 the year in the year** awarded lapsed 2013 Value Determination
Allocation Date                                                  Number Number Number Number Number Number awarded Date*
                                                                                          
Nicholas Hobson                                      
18 November 2009 (1)                   41,638 - 434 42,072 - - £161,582 17 November 2012
17 November 2010 (1)                   66,226 - 2,639 -- 68,865 - 16 November 2013
16 November 2011                         74,663 - 2,975 -- 77,638 - 15 November 2014
14 November 2012                                  - 78,871 2,296 -- 81,167 - 13 November 2015
                                                                    
Richard Perry                                           
18 November 2009                         90,077 - 940 91,017 - - £349,560 17 November 2012
17 November 2010                         60,977 - 2,430 -- 63,407 - 16 November 2013
16 November 2011                         47,883 - 1,907 -- 49,790 - 15 November 2014
14 November 2012                                  - 49,501 1,441 -- 50,942 - 13 November 2015
Mark Abrahams                                       
18 November 2009 (2)                   74,724 - 778 75,502 - - £289,973 17 November 2012
Total of awards in year                             208,591 £801,115
                                                                   
Interests in shares                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 August 2013                                  1 September 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             or date ceased to be a director         or date appointed as a director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Nicholas Hobson                                                                                                                                                              260,622                                 215,677
Richard Perry                                                                                                                                                                   623,000                                 567,000
Mark Abrahams                                                                                                                                                               726,726                                 690,485
Vanda Murray                                                                                                                                                                        2,000                                     2,000
David Buttfield                                                                                                                                                                    48,618                                   48,618
Alan Wood                                                                                                                                                                           5,528                                     5,528
John Sheldrick                                                                                                                                                                    10,000                                   10,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
All directors’ interests are beneficially held. There have been no other changes in the interests set out above between 31 August 2013 and
13 November 2013.
Directors’ Report Remuneration
Board Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ pension entitlement
Executive retained benefits
Richard Perry has been an executive director
for the complete financial year ended 31
August 2013. On 4 April 2012, Richard Perry
ceased to be an active member of the Fenner
Pension Scheme and became a postponed
member . As such, Richard Perry has not
accrued any benefits in the Fenner Pension
Scheme in the year ended 31 August 2013. As
at 31 August 2013, Richard Perry’s deferred
benefit entitlement amounted to £83,805 per
annum.
The overall value of Richard Perry’s pension
benefits has reduced year-on-year . While the
Pension Allowance has increased by £30,589,
this increase is more than offset by Richard
Perry withdrawing from the defined benefit
Fenner Pension Scheme and not being
provided with any pension accrual under the
Fenner Pension Scheme. 48
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Movements in share price during
the year
The market price of the Company’s shares at
the end of the financial year was 343.0p and
the range of market prices during the
year was between 305.9p and 435.2p.
A resolution on this, the annual Board
Remuneration Report, will be put to
shareholders at the Company’s AGM, inviting
them to approve this Report. Details of the
Remuneration Committee’s membership and
governance responsibilities are given in
Corporate Governance on pages 30 to 31.
Advisors used in the year
The Committee has taken advice from AON
Hewitt who provided data in relation to the
PSP and TSR outcome for the 4th Plan Cycles.
AON Hewitt originally designed the current
PSP ahead of it being adopted in 2007. AON
Hewitt do not provide any other services to the
Company. They are viewed as independent
and cost effective given their involvement at
the outset of the PSP.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Alan Wood
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
13 November 2013 49
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Why corporate responsibility is important
to Fenner
Fenner understands that corporate
responsibility is an essential cornerstone in
the deliverance of long-term sustainable
business success. We also recognise that we
have social and environmental responsibilities
to the communities in which we work. By
recognising and managing our corporate
responsibilities appropriately, we add to the
overall success of the business and further
enhance our reputation, profitability and
shareholder return.
How we manage corporate responsibility
Fenner strives to understand and manage
significant risks to the environment and
communities in which we operate, as well as
considering the positive impact we can make
through our activities. We have identified five
key areas which we use to address the
potential impact of our activities on the
environment, our employees, the
communities in which we work and wider
stakeholders:
Health and safety (H&S);
Our people;
Environment;
Community; and
Business behaviours.
The risks associated with these five areas are
managed within the Group’s risk management
framework and are continuously monitored
and assessed, with necessary controls put in
place in order to reduce any potential impact. 
The Board sets the strategy and has overall
responsibility for the development and
monitoring of the Group’s policies relating to
corporate responsibility. The task of ensuring
that these policies are communicated and
applied at a divisional and operating unit level
is delegated through the Chief Executive
Officer to senior managing directors and on to
each operating unit’s senior management. All
policies and associated management systems
are reviewed at least annually and at any time
when significant changes in the business,
legislation or industry standards demand.
Each operating unit is responsible for
ensuring that, as a minimum, it meets local
statutory requirements and is encouraged to
reflect identified best practice within the
Group. 
All employees are expected to take personal
responsibility for their conduct and Fenner
recognises that the necessary culture and
behavioural environment must be in place
across the Group to facilitate the successful
implementation of the Group’s policies.
Health and safety
Why it matters to Fenner
Fenner has a very clear vision as to why H&S
is important to us. We believe that anyone
who works for Fenner should expect to return
home in the same fit and healthy state in
which they came to work. It is expected that
everyone who works for Fenner, regardless of
location, is responsible for the safety of both
themselves and their colleagues. We
continually strive to ensure this individual and
collective responsibility is discharged to
ensure that the workplace is safe for
ourselves, our colleagues, our customers and
all those with whom we work.  
Fenner looks for and promotes H&S as a key
element in the culture of each of its
operations. Since its launch in 2009, the
Health & Safety Management System
Framework (“The Framework”) has provided
structure and guidance to operations,
irrespective of size, to deliver continuous
improvement within the unique culture and
autonomy of our operations. The Framework
provides individuals, operating units and new
acquisitions with a clear understanding of
what is required of them, while allowing local
management the freedom to develop their
systems to satisfy local legislation, practice
and social mores.
What policies and practices are in place?
The Framework, together with Group policies,
forms the foundation of the Group Health and
Safety Management System. The Framework
   
       
     
   
    
      
  
    
       
 
    
 
       
   
  
 
  
      
     
     
      
      
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
Code 
of Conduct
Policies
Procedures
Communication
Board 
  Audit Committee
Board
Chief Executive Officer
Group Compliance Officer/ 
Group Company Secretary
Divisional 
Directors
Employees
Local Compliance
Officers
External Reporting
Confidential 
Whistleblowing 
Procedure
Corporate Responsibility and Governance
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
Fenner believes that being a good employer and
operating our companies in a safe and responsible
manner underpins the sustainability of our business. 50
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
comprises 13 Elements subdivided into 89
Expectations. The Expectations provide clear
guidance to all our operating units to enable
them to undertake a risk-based assessment
of their local H&S management systems and
develop appropriate improvement plans. In
line with the culture of delegated
accountability in the Group, the accountability
for managing H&S and developing local H&S
management systems resides with local
management; this ensures the systems are
appropriate to the local culture, organisation
and regulatory environment, while additionally
seeking to meet best practice standards. The
principle of continuous improvement
enshrined in The Framework drives the
enhancement of the local H&S systems and
culture, ensuring that the resultant local H&S
management system is robust and fit for
purpose.
A number of key activities take place that
ensure the operating units are focused on the
correct risks: there is an external assurance
programme which measures Group
performance against industry-wide
benchmarks and best practice standards; at a
divisional level, senior H&S professionals
have multi-site oversight to share best
practice and internally challenge local
improvement plans; and improved
communication and sharing across the
broader H&S community within the Group. 
Embedding The Framework into Group
operations will be a long-term project as it
necessitates a degree of cultural change. The
process is built on individual operating unit
improvement plans that are refreshed
annually. Each year, all operating units review
what improvements have been achieved in the
previous year and revise priorities based on
long-term improvement goals and new input
gleaned from sources including incident
investigations, assurance visits and
Group/industry communications. The
continuous improvement approach to H&S
management and the core processes integral
to this are illustrated in the Safety
Management System diagram below. The
response within the Group to the structure
and clarity provided by The Framework is
extremely positive.  
What are we doing?
The Framework requires each operating unit to
conduct an annual assessment of its current
level of compliance with the Expectations,
taking into account the current operational risk
profile and applicable regulatory requirements.
The unit then produces an improvement plan
which incorporates and builds on its existing
H&S programmes. The Framework is a core
component of the integration plan for all
acquisitions. Progress against these plans is
monitored and subject to independent
assessment through an assurance
programme. The benefits of a structured
approach are evident in both the established
Fenner operations and our recent acquisitions.
At the core of The Framework is the concept of
continuous improvement. This idea permeates
the Group’s approach to H&S and
encompasses continual monitoring and
periodic review. At an operational level, this is
demonstrated by the development and delivery
of the operating unit improvement plans. At a
Group level, it is delivered by a periodic review
of The Framework to ensure that it remains
relevant and applicable when addressing the
risks faced by our operations. At its launch in
2009, it was envisaged that a major review of
The Framework would take place every five
years to ensure that it continued to remain
appropriate. Accordingly, during 2013, an
extensive programme of internal reviews and
interviews across the Group and at all levels of
the organisation has been undertaken. This
exercise has confirmed that The Framework
content is fit-for-purpose for most of the
Group’s operations and that only a few specific
additions need to be made to address risks
that have resulted from growth and the
evolution of the Group across the globe.
Since the inception of The Framework in 2009,
it has been recognised that an essential part of
the management of H&S in the Group is the
effectiveness of its associated assurance
programme. An appropriate assurance
programme was implemented shortly after the
roll-out of The Framework. This comprises
visits by independent, third party H&S experts
who review documentation, engage with staff
at all levels in the operating unit and assesses
the local H&S culture and behaviours. We
recognise that the assurance programme
delivers multiple benefits in the Group’s
diversified culture; it provides independent
verification to the Executive Committee and the
Board as to the state of local safety
management systems and safety culture
across the Group; it provides each operation
with recommendations for improvement based
upon a broad cross-Group perspective; and it
acts as another conduit for sharing best
practice across the Group.
We believe strongly that H&S is at the heart of
the way we do business. Every manager and
supervisor is accountable for delivering high
levels of H&S performance in their area of
influence. These leaders are supported by a
network of local H&S managers within the
operations who are able to advise, support and
drive improvements in their safety
management systems. All operations have an
H&S committee which meets regularly to
discuss H&S topics and concerns, make
recommendations and implement and monitor
any improvements or initiatives. H&S key
issues and measurements are also routinely
monitored and discussed at management
meetings with investigations into serious
incidents and near misses reported to the
Group for dissemination across all global
operations.
Accidents and near misses are recorded and
reviewed locally and safe systems of work
updated if necessary. Accidents involving lost
time are reported through divisional
management to the main Board. The process
for sharing details of an incident and the
The Group Health and Safety Policy can
be viewed at www.fenner .com
   
       
     
   
    
      
  
    
       
 
    
 
       
   
  
 
  
      
     
     
      
      
    
 
Challenge and continuous
improvement
Operational
review
Ownership, communication and promotion
(Balance of accountability)
Local
Group
Operational strategy
Planning and execution
H&S performance
Core 
processes
• Learning from past experiences
• Risk management
• Training and competencies
• Policy and procedure
• Leadership and direction
• Measurement and assurance
• Technical integrity
Regulatory compliance
Group policies
The Framework
Safety Management System 51
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
measures around the Group to prevent similar
accidents happening elsewhere has been
formalised and extended to include near
misses and guidance on wider health issues
with a business impact. H&S regulators are
increasing their level of activity, increasing
penalties and extending their interest across
businesses with common ownership. The
Framework and our Group-wide processes not
only ensure our performance improves, but
also address this increased regulatory activity.
Highlights from the year
In 2011, we created a new award for sustained
H&S performance. The award was recognition
for any operating unit who passed 1,000,000
hours worked without a lost time incident. In
July 2013, the Houston facility in the USA
passed this prestigious milestone. Local
management believe that a fundamental
change in culture has been undertaken over
the past five years. All employees now enforce
the safety culture through education,
awareness and empowerment to affect their
working environment. 
In November 2012, the inaugural Global
Fenner HS&E Conference was held in
Manchester, UK. The conference was
attended by over 50 delegates drawn from
primarily H&S and operations personnel
across the Group. Key note speeches were
delivered by Executive Committee members
and the Chief Executive Officer. The purpose
of the conference was to build upon the
common foundation The Framework provides,
to enhance the understanding and sharing of
how to deliver improved H&S and
Environmental performance.
Two of the Group’s operating units have
received external recognition and awards
during the year for their performance: 
The Fenner Dunlop Americas service
operation in Chile was recognised with
awards from two of their major customers
for sustained safe working, which has
resulted in over 18 months of accident-
free operations on their sites;
The Hallite operation in Wixom, USA
received a SafeTask™ Safety Vigilance
Award. This award is presented by CSM
Inc., our external, independent HSE
assurance providers, in recognition of
their significantly improved safety culture.
Since 2008, we have also awarded the annual
Fenner Group Health and Safety Improvement
Award. The award recognises the operating
unit which has made the most progress
towards achieving our goals of making safety
the top priority in all work environments and
ensuring that all those who work for Fenner
can expect to return home in the same fit and
healthy state in which they came to work. 
There were a number of operating units that
were in contention for this year’s award, with
the Fenner Dunlop Americas belting operation
in Bracebridge, Canada, the Fenner Dunlop
Australia service locations in Wollongong and
Darwin, Australia, the Fenner Precision
operation in Wilmington, USA and the Hallite
operation in Hamburg, Germany all receiving
commendations for the improvements that
they have made over recent years.  
The 2013 Fenner Group Health and Safety
Improvement Award has been awarded to the
Hallite operation in Wixom, USA. Following
the introduction of The Framework in 2009,
the Group-wide review against the
Expectations revealed that the business had
significant opportunities for improvement.
Consequently, there was a fundamental
rethink regarding the H&S approach at
Wixom. Today, Wixom is considered to be one
of the Group’s leaders in H&S culture, ably
supported by local management. The culture
change has taken place over a number of
years as employees were engaged to take
personal ownership of their H&S agenda. This
change in approach was embraced at all
levels within the business and pervades the
day-to-day approach taken by operating units,
where H&S is seen as an integral part of
business practice.
Our people
Why it matters to Fenner
Our ability to consistently deliver reliable and
superior solutions to customers is founded
upon a stable, technically skilled, innovative
and committed workforce. We are committed
to recruiting, developing and retaining the
best people to help ensure the continued
success of the Fenner Group.
What policies and practices are in place?
Each operating unit employs recruitment
practices which identify the best available
candidate for each position. All employees are
actively encouraged to apply for roles,
including cross-divisional opportunities where
applicable.
Fenner aims to provide an inclusive and
diverse workplace environment, in which all
employees are treated with dignity and
respect. Fenner is committed to providing
equal opportunities in recruitment,
employment and development; we do not
discriminate against any person based on
gender, race, age, caste, origin, religion,
disability, sexual orientation or any other
status protected by law. Fenner does not
tolerate any form of harassment,
discrimination or bullying and is committed to
progression based on merit. 
What are we doing?
Fenner strongly believes in the importance of
providing training and development
opportunities to enable employees to increase
their contribution to the Group and realise
their full potential. New employees receive
induction training on a variety of subjects,
including H&S and Group policies and
procedures. Additional training requirements
are continually assessed at a local level and
further appropriate training is provided to
meet the development needs of both the
operating unit and the employee. Employees
take part in formal annual appraisals to
discuss performance, achievements and
potential areas for development and
progression. 
Fenner believes that regular communication
helps to increase employee awareness and
understanding of our culture and vision at
both a local and Group level. In addition to
publications provided at a divisional and local
level, the “Fenner Focus” magazine is
produced and distributed to all employees on
a quarterly basis and is an effective route to
communicate matters of Group and
operational significance. The magazine also
recognises operating units and individuals for
Our Houston facility, which is used by CDI Energy
Products and EGC Critical Components, has
successfully changed its safety culture over a
period of five years. It was not about creating
safety rules and policies, but more about
educating employees on the risks associated with
their jobs and developing a true belief that all
work can be done safely.
This was achieved by developing a culture and
understanding amongst all employees, which gave
them the confidence to be their own safety officer
and if there is any doubt about the safety of a task
to “Stop Work”. This cultural change has resulted
in FAST Houston exceeding 1,000,000 hours
worked without a lost time incident and become
the first member of the Fenner “Millionaire’s
Club”, an award for sustained H&S performance.
Case Study
Corporate Responsibility continued 52
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
their work in the community, H&S and
environmental initiatives and long service
awards.
At a local level, operating units regularly
communicate with their employees through
the use of staff meetings, management
walkabouts, newsletters, consultative councils,
suggestion schemes, electronic messaging,
appraisals and social events. All operating
units encourage two-way communications and
provide channels for feedback and comment
on the Group’s activities.
Highlights from the year
Due to the global nature of the Group’s
business and customer base, we have a
geographically and culturally diverse
workforce. On average during the year, the
Group employed 5,272 people (2012: 4,970), of
which 31% were located in EMEA, 44% in the
Americas and 25% in Asia Pacific.
During the year, Fenner appointed a Group HR
Development Director to provide expert
guidance and support to operating unit
management in the furtherance of their local
HR development programmes. Over the year,
she has also worked closely with the Group’s
Executive Committee to identify the qualities
and behaviours that we expect from our
business leaders. These qualities and
behaviours will be used to support the
development of staff across the business,
further enhancing succession planning at a
Group level.
Fenner attaches a great deal of importance to
the health and welfare of our employees, both
in the workplace and in their private lives. Over
the year, operating units have continued to
provide a variety of health programmes and
initiatives to their employees. A large number
of operating units offer free health screenings
and vaccinations to employees. Several
operating units also encourage their
employees to lead healthier lifestyles through
the use of wellness programmes. These
programmes range from the provision of
smoking cessation and weight loss initiatives to
encouraging gym membership and offering on-
site exercise sessions to employees. During the
year, Fenner Drives’ US operating units
introduced Employee Assistance Programmes,
where employees are able to take advantage of
free sessions for counselling and wellness
programmes. Xeridiem in Tucson, USA
provides a welfare programme which offers
incentives to employees who complete certain
screenings throughout the year . Xeridiem
receives a health report based on the results of
screenings which identifies the top three
biggest health risks at the company, so that
future wellness initiatives can be targeted
towards minimising those risks.
Environment
Why it matters to Fenner
Concern for the Group’s impact on the
environment is a fundamental part of the
Group’s business strategy as it endeavours to
contribute towards a sustainable future.  
The Group is committed to identifying and
assessing the risks of pollution and other
forms of environmental impact arising out of
its activities and actively seeks to reduce its
impact on the environment to the lowest
practical level by ensuring that all operations
and activities of the Group exemplify current
environmental best practice. 
What policies and practices are in place?
At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has
specific responsibility for the development of
policy and management systems.
Responsibility for each operating division is
delegated to the senior managing director
and, at a local level, to a senior manager at
each site, supported by in-house or third party
professionals. Each senior managing director
reports to the Board on a regular basis and
advises the Board immediately of any
environmental risks or other incidents likely
to be significant to the business. No new
material environmental risks or incidents
were reported to the Board in the last year.
We believe that, due to the large variation in
environmental regulation and approach
across different countries, our best response
to deliver environmental management is to
ensure that each operational location is fully
aware and supported with respect to its local,
national and international regulatory
obligations. Taking this locally-focused
approach, operating units have established a
number of different local environmental
management systems. These systems are in
line with the Group Environmental Policy and
The Framework, which outlines a set of Group
Environmental Expectations. Currently, where
local management believe that it provides a
benefit, 31% of the Group is either accredited
or working towards accreditation under the
internationally recognised ISO14001 scheme.
All acquisitions are subject to appropriate
environmental due diligence, which is
specifically extended to include environmental
management systems and operational
compliance.
The Group Environmental Policy can be
viewed at www.fenner .com
Employees by location
31%
44%
25%
Asia Pacific
EMEA
Americas
In 2013, Fenner introduced the Jobs at
Fenner website for its employees. The
website allows each of the Fenner
businesses an opportunity to share
vacancies across the Group. By sharing
professional and managerial vacancies in
this way, we aim to provide more varied
career opportunities, strengthen inter-
divisional cooperation and improve the
retention of skilled staff.
Case Study
Over the course of the year, Fenner
conducted a review of the continued
appropriateness of the pension provision for
our UK companies. As a result of the
review, a new pension scheme has been
introduced, which is open to all UK
employees. The Scheme provides all
pension scheme members with the
opportunity to take advantage of enhanced
contribution rates, as well as improved
ancillary benefits.
Case Study 53
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Corporate Responsibility continued
What are we doing?
Waste Minimisation
The general principle adopted by the Group is
one of waste minimisation in its broadest
sense, whether that waste is energy, raw
material or water. Wasteful use of any
resource is counter to the efficient running of
any business and incurs additional cost, either
from suppliers or from disposal of the waste;
therefore the minimisation of manufacturing
waste and the maximisation of energy
efficiency are recognised as beneficial to the
Group from both an environmental and
commercial viewpoint.  
Waste minimisation is driven and managed at
the operating unit level. All major
manufacturing operations monitor their waste
emissions and all operating units comply with
local environment legislation. General waste
management programmes and initiatives are
encouraged and the recycling of materials
takes place where practical, either internally
or through external programmes with suppliers
or other third parties. An example of this is the
recycling programme running at our Hallite
facility in Wixom, USA (see case study below).
Climate Change
The Group recognises the increase in public
awareness of the climate change debate and
the need for companies to understand the
scale of their greenhouse gas emissions. It
also recognises that there is no globally
accepted methodology for calculating
emissions, with most countries having a
portfolio of emission factors for various energy
sources based on either the average
composition of primary fuels or averaged
emission factors for secondary energy sources
such as electricity purchased from a national
grid. While these averages are inherently
inaccurate, they are the generally accepted
methodology for estimating the end user’s
greenhouse gas emissions for year-on-year
reporting. To this end, the Group has elected
to report global figures based on emission
factors proscribed within the internationally
accepted greenhouse gas protocol. We have
engaged a third party data collection
consultancy with expertise in converting utility
usage into carbon emissions to ensure that we
are kept abreast and utilise all the appropriate
national and international factors (see the
case study above).
In the UK, Fenner is registered for the Carbon
Reduction Commitment scheme (“CRC”), a
key component of the Climate Change Act
which subsequently was turned into a carbon
tax. As part of our approach to carbon
emissions, we are a voluntary member of the
British Plastics Federation Climate Change
Agreement (“CCA”). The CCA sets industry-
wide targets for reduction with penalties for
failing to reach those targets. In past years, we
have won the British Plastics Federation
energy award for outstanding improvements in
energy efficiency. It should be noted that only
8% of our scope 1 and 2 emissions come from
our operations in the UK.
Air quality could be adversely affected by some
of our processes and we have implemented
systems to ensure this does not happen. A
number of locations use processes which
involve a range of chemicals which are
generically referred to as volatile organic
compounds (“VOCs”). These chemicals are
subject to strict regulation; their storage and
use is strictly controlled. We continually seek
to identify alternate substances to replace
these regulated chemicals. Where it is not
possible to identify suitable alternatives, we
strictly control and minimise the use of these
substances, as well as invest in equipment to
recover material rather than emit it.
Many of our existing operations, as well as
new acquisitions, are located on sites that are
many decades, even centuries, old. This
presents risks and challenges as we deal with
legacy issues from activities in previous eras,
where environmental control was not so strict.
The Group recognises and actively manages
the legacy environmental risk though local
action plans supported by Group oversight
where appropriate. All new investment is
designed to meet or exceed local regulations
to ensure that our impact on the local
environment is continuously improving.
Since moving to a new location in February
2011, Hallite in Wixom, USA has greatly
reduced its environmental impact through
developing a broad recycling programme.
Since the implementation of the programme,
over 683 tons has been recycled. This
includes six different types of plastic scrap,
scrap metal, used oil, cardboard, office paper,
plastic waste, pallets, batteries, fluorescent
bulbs, printer cartridges, computer
equipment and mobile phones.
The latest material to be added to this list is
the recycling and reuse of the coolant from
CNC machines. Furthermore, the recycling
efforts have had a positive financial benefit by
reducing the waste sent to the landfill by
approximately 62 tons, a saving of over
$10,000 to the business.
The employees’ commitment was a vital part
of the recycling programme’s success and
contributed towards achieving certification of
our Environmental Management System in
only 14 months (ISO14001).
These efforts have also been recognised by
receiving the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality’s “Michigan Business
Pollution Prevention Partnership” award for
two consecutive years.
Case Study
The Group has been working towards
improved greenhouse gas reporting for
the past two years. We have been working
with a third party software provider to
develop a multifaceted, non-financial data
reporting system that creates a single
portal for collecting environmental,
health & safety, energy and greenhouse
gas data.
The portal will be critical in ensuring we
can report in line with the new
greenhouse gas reporting requirements.
Case Study 54
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Fenner undertakes regular reviews of its
activities and the workings of The
Environmental Policy to ensure it is
comprehensive and effective, identifying
objectives and standards that will enable a
demonstrable continuous improvement in
environmental matters.
Highlights from the year
Energy efficiency
During 2013, the Group has undertaken a
global roll-out of an energy and emissions
reporting system. The system will result in
more robust and efficient reporting of
greenhouse gas emissions. The system will
ensure we are able to comply with The
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013, which
requires the Group to report on global
greenhouse gas emissions.
The Group does not set global targets for
greenhouse gas emissions, but many
operating units set local environmental
targets and all operations comply with local
legislative requirements. Due to the diversity
of the Group’s manufacturing processes,
operating unit size and location, it will be
challenging to produce meaningful, consistent
and predictable intensity measures. 
The Group uses a variety of energy sources.
The main contributors to greenhouse gas
emissions are electricity consumption and
fuels burnt on our premises which, combined,
account for 84% of the Group’s emissions.
All of our operating units manage their energy
efficiency as part of their normal operating
cost control. Examples include: the purchase
of new equipment with consideration of
lifetime energy costs; studies underway to
replace older boilers with more efficient
modern boilers; and widespread utilisation of
energy efficient lighting.
Community
Why it matters to Fenner
Fenner believes that good relations and long-
term partnerships with the communities in
which it works are fundamental to its success.
Fenner always considers the potential social
and environmental impacts that its business
activities may have on those communities and
such considerations are embedded within the
Group’s decision making processes. 
What policies and practices are in place?
Our support for the communities in which we
operate is driven at a local, rather than Group
level, with operating units supporting and
enhancing employee efforts in their
communities through the application of the
Group’s resources. 
The Group’s Code of Business Conduct
prohibits any political donations and no
political donations were made during the year. 
What are we doing?
Over the year, the majority of operating units
chose to provide support to local causes.
During the year, total charitable donations of
£108,000 (2012: £102,000) were made.
Highlights from the year
Employees and operating units have given
their time and helped raise funds for a variety
of charities and projects over the past year.
Some examples include:
Employees at Fenner Drives in Manheim,
USA volunteered to teach classes at local
schools through Junior Achievement USA,
which aims to help students connect with
education, develop life skills and discover
their potential;
Fenner Dunlop Europe in Hull, UK
supported rugby, football, cricket and
bowls teams from the local community,
providing on-site playing facilities and
sponsorship;
Hallite in Wixom, USA adopted a local
family through the “Adopt a Family
Program” and raised money for their
thanksgiving dinner and Christmas gifts.
For their participation in this programme
and other charitable work, Hallite
received a 2013 Outstanding Citizenship
Award from the Lakes Area Chamber of
Commerce;
Fenner South Africa provided support for
a disadvantaged student at a tertiary
institution; and
As a custom, Fenner Dunlop in Drachten
in the Netherlands has provided each
employee with a Christmas hamper. This
year, employees were provided with the
option of having the value of their hamper
donated to a number of charities, with the
Company doubling the amount of money
raised. The money raised was split
between; the Imena Foundation, a charity
which supports projects in Africa,
including improved schooling, the
provision of clean drinking water and
healthcare for the poorest; the Salvation
Army, to help furnish a local community
kitchen; and “A better Romanian World”, a
charity which helps orphaned children as
well as the elderly and poor.
Business behaviours
Why it matters to Fenner
Fenner believes that high standards of
integrity and responsible corporate behaviour
help to ensure that an organisation is well
run. Our conduct and reputation also help to
both ensure our long-term sustainable
business success and encourage the
formation of successful partnerships with
third parties throughout the Group’s supply
chain, thereby creating additional business
value. 
What policies and practices are in place?
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the
development and monitoring of the Group’s
policies relating to corporate behaviour and
for ensuring that those policies are
understood and communicated to employees.
Responsibility for ethical and behavioural
standards in each division is delegated via the
senior managing director to the senior
manager at each operating unit. 
Fenner is committed to doing business at all
times in an ethical and transparent manner.
The principles of openness, integrity and
accountability are enshrined within the Code
of Business Conduct, which sets out the
behavioural standards expected from all
employees. The Code is an overarching policy
which is supported by additional policies and
procedures at both a Group and operational
level, including:
Anti-trust/Competition Policy;
Anti-bribery & Corruption Policy;
25%
11%
5%
59%
2%
2%
1%
Electricity
Waste Other
Fuel Water
Vehicles
Air
Greenhouse gas emissions
Donations by type
12%
44% 44%
Education
Health
Community 55
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Corporate Gifts & Hospitality Policy;
Whistleblowing Policy;
Email & Internet Use Policy; and
Group Control Manual.
Fenner encourages its employees to discuss
any ethical concerns that they may have with
local management. In addition, a confidential
and independent whistleblowing helpline is
available to all employees who wish to raise
any concerns they may have regarding
potentially unethical workplace behaviour.
Calls to the helpline are free and the helpline
operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In
recognition of the fact that we are a global
business, reports can be made in a wide
range of languages.
What are we doing?
The vast majority of operating units have, or
are working towards, ISO 9001 or equivalent
status and each undertakes rigorous
customer satisfaction assessments, including
senior face to face meetings and customer
surveys. Performance and the timing and
handling of any complaints are routinely
discussed at management meetings and are
used as a key measurement in determining
the success of the operating unit. Complaints
are regularly recorded and used to help
operating units improve the service that they
provide.
Fenner expects that all business partners will
adhere to the high levels of business conduct
that we require of ourself. It is a standard
requirement of our terms and conditions of
business that both suppliers and customers
comply with all laws relating to anti-
corruption as well as our related policies. In
addition, we expect strategic partners and
service customers to have H&S management
systems that are aligned with those of the
Group.
Highlights from the year 
Training has been provided to appropriate
employees at an operational level for both
anti-bribery and anti-competition through
seminars, meetings and poster campaigns.
Group-wide mandatory e-training
programmes addressing bribery and
corruption, the Fenner Code of Business
Conduct and anti-competitive behaviour are
currently being finalised and will go live in the
near future. We have identified those
employees deemed to have a higher risk of
exposure to bribery and corruption, all of
whom will be required to undergo training.
Such “at risk” employees include:
All senior management;
All sales and purchasing teams; and
Other employees who could potentially be
the subject of external influences.
The whistleblowing helpline received eight
calls (2012: seven) over the year from
employees who wished to raise concerns
alleging unethical workplace behaviour.
Following suitable investigation, no action was
required in three of the cases, with the
remaining cases being appropriately
addressed through further training, policy
improvements or disciplinary process at a
local level. All whistleblowing incidents are
reported to the Audit Committee.
Fenner recognises that gifts and hospitality
can potentially create improper influence and
conflicts of interest, or the perception of a
conflict of interest. Accordingly, we have a
Gifts & Hospitality Policy, communicated to all
operating units regarding the receipt and
provision of gifts and hospitality from and to
third parties. An online gifts and hospitality
register is available for use by all operating
units. 
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
13 November 2013
Fenner’s Corporate Responsibility approach
• Policies and procedures
   – Code of Business Conduct
    – Whistleblowing procedure
•  Management systems
•  Employee training 
•  Business partner   
 relationship management
•  Audit and assurance
•  Data and performance  
 management
•  Reporting and 
 communication
Governance
• H&S management   • H&S culture
• H&S assurance programme
Health and 
safety
Our people
Operational impact areas
Environment
Community
• Training and development • Employee welfare
• Leadership development • Employee communications
• Environment management • Climate change
• Waste management  • Energy efficiency
• Community engagement • Employee community involvement
• Community related donations 
Business behaviours
Corporate Responsibility continued 56
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Fenner PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2013 which comprise the Consolidated income
statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the
Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 33 to 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 August 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union; and 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with
the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
the directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern; and
the part of Corporate Governance relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code
specified for our review; and
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2013 and on the information
in the Board Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Hull
13 November 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results 57
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Revenue
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Distribution costs
Administrative expenses
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired 
Operating profit
Finance income
Finance costs
Profit before taxation
Taxation
Profit for the year
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent
Non-controlling interests
Earnings per share
Basic
Diluted
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 August 2013
                                        
                                        
                             4         
                               
                               
                               
                             5
                             7         
                             8         
                               
                               
                             9
                               
                                        
                                        
                               
                               
                                        
                                        
                           11         
                           11         
                                    830.6
                                  (557.9)
                                    272.7
                                    (64.7)
                                  (100.4)
                                    118.8
                                    (11.2)
                                             
                                    107.6
                                        0.7
                                    (19.7)
                                      88.6
                                    (26.2)
                                      62.4
                                      58.6
                                        3.8
                                      62.4
                                      30.3p
                                      30.2p
                                             
                                     820.6
                                    (558.4)
                                     262.2
                                      (64.3)
                                    (112.4)
                                     101.5
                                      (16.0)
                                        85.5
                                          0.6
                                      (18.2)
                                        67.9
                                      (18.7)
                                        49.2
                                        45.6
                                          3.6
                                        49.2
                                        23.5p
                                        23.5p
                                               
                                               
2012
£m
2013
£m Notes 58
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit post-retirement schemes
Tax on items that will not be reclassified
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences
Cash flow hedges
Net investment hedges
Tax on items that may be reclassified
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent
Non-controlling interests
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 August 2013
                         49.2
                                 
                         17.1
                          (4.2)
                         12.9
                          (9.8)
                           1.2
                           2.6
                          (0.8)
                                 
                          (6.8)        
                           6.1
                                 
                         55.3
                         53.5
                           1.8
                         55.3
                                 
                                 
                         62.4
                       (21.1)
                          4.6
                       (16.5)
                         (3.2)
                         (0.2)
                          3.2
                         (0.7)        
                         (0.9)
                       (17.4)
                        45.0
                        41.4
                          3.6
                        45.0         
                           25
                             9
                               
                           23
                           23
                             9
2012
£m
2013
£m Notes 59
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Deferred tax assets
Derivative financial assets
Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Current tax assets
Derivative financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Total assets
Current liabilities
Borrowings
Trade and other payables
Current tax liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
Provisions
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Trade and other payables
Retirement benefit obligations
Provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
Total liabilities
Net assets
Equity
Share capital
Share premium
Retained earnings
Exchange reserve
Hedging reserve
Merger reserve
Shareholders' equity
Non-controlling interests
Total equity
The financial statements on pages 57 to 96 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
M S Abrahams                 R J Perry
Chairman                           Group Finance Director                                                                                         
Registered Number: 329377
                       220.4
                       262.7
                         13.8
                           5.7
                       502.6
                         91.8
                       133.2
                           2.3
                           1.3
                         99.2
                       327.8
                       830.4
                        (14.4)
                      (146.5)
                        (12.2)
                          (0.1)
                          (8.9)
                      (182.1)
                      (205.9)
                          (0.7)
                        (26.8)
                        (37.3)
                        (11.9)
                          (3.8)
                      (286.4)
                      (468.5)
                       361.9
                         48.5
                         51.7
                       146.7
                         31.0
                           3.0
                         65.9
                       346.8
                         15.1
                       361.9
                                 
                      215.4
                      221.4
                        20.9
                          4.5
                               
                      462.2
                      105.6
                      120.6
                          0.5
                          0.5
                      108.7
                      335.9
                      798.1
                       (11.0)
                     (147.4)
                       (13.6)
                             -
                         (9.4)
                     (181.4)
                     (195.4)
                         (2.0)
                       (48.2)
                       (28.8)
                         (8.1)
                         (5.2)
                     (287.7)
                     (469.1)
                      329.0
                        48.4
                        51.7
                      107.8
                        39.0
                         (0.2)
                        65.9
                      312.6
                        16.4
                      329.0
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 August 2013
                                        
                                        
                               
                           12         
                           13         
                           15
                           23         
                                        
                               
                           16         
                           17         
                               
                           23
                           18
                               
                                        
                                        
                               
                           22
                           24         
                               
                           23
                           27         
                               
                               
                           22
                           24         
                           25         
                           27         
                           15
                           23
                               
                                        
                                        
                               
                           28         
                                        
                                        
                           29
                           29         
                          29         
                                        
                               
                               
                                        
                               
2012
£m
2013
£m Notes 60
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 August 2013
Profit before taxation
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets
Impairment of intangible assets
Release of deferred consideration on acquisitions
Profit on disposal of businesses
Defined benefit post-retirement costs charged to operating profit
Cash contributions to defined benefit post-retirement schemes
Movement in provisions
Finance income
Finance costs
Other non-cash movements
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital
Movement in inventories
Movement in trade and other receivables
Movement in trade and other payables
Net cash from operations
Taxation paid
Net cash from operating activities
Investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets
Disposal of intangible assets
Acquisition of businesses
Disposal of businesses
Interest received
Net cash used in investing activities
Financing activities:
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
Interest paid
Repayment of borrowings
New borrowings
Net cash used in financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2012
Exchange movements
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2013
Cash and cash equivalents comprises:
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank overdrafts 
                               
                               
                           33
                           34
                           10
                                        
                         67.9
                         39.1
                           3.9
                               -
                          (2.7)
                           2.2
                          (7.7)
                          (0.8)
                          (0.6)
                         18.2
                           0.6
                       120.1
                         20.8
                          (3.1)
                        (11.3)
                       126.5
                        (24.5)
                       102.0
                        (25.5)
                           0.3
                          (1.8)
                               -
                        (58.9)
                           4.5
                           0.6
                        (80.8)
                        (20.3)
                          (3.3)
                        (15.5)
                        (14.5)
                         19.8
                        (33.8)
                        (12.6)
                       108.7
                           3.0
                         99.1
                         99.2
                          (0.1)
                         99.1
                                 
                        88.6
                        31.4
                          1.8
                         (1.7)
                             -        
                          1.6
                         (5.8)
                         (0.3)
                         (0.7)
                        19.7
                          0.8
                      135.4
                         (0.5)
                         (0.8)
                         (7.0)
                      127.1
                       (23.5)
                      103.6
                       (26.4)
                          0.4
                         (2.5)
                          0.2
                       (34.3)
                             -
                          0.5
                       (62.1)
                               
                       (15.4)
                         (2.6)
                       (12.8)
                       (17.6)
                        11.1
                       (37.3)
                          4.2
                      104.3
                          0.2
                      108.7
                               
                      108.7
                             -
                      108.7
2012
£m
2013
£m Notes 61
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
At 1 September 2011
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Currency translation differences
Cash flow hedges
Net investment hedges
Actuarial losses on defined benefit
post-retirement schemes
Tax on other comprehensive income
Total other comprehensive income/(expense)
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners:
Dividends paid in the year 
Shares issued in the year 
Share-based payments 
Acquisition of businesses 
Tax on transactions with owners
Transfer of non-controlling 
interests to borrowings
Total transactions with owners
At 1 September 2012
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Currency translation differences
Cash flow hedges
Net investment hedges
Actuarial gains on defined benefit
post-retirement schemes
Tax on other comprehensive income
Total other comprehensive income/(expense)
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners:
Dividends paid in the year 
Shares issued in the year 
Share-based payments 
Tax on transactions with owners
Capitalisation of non-controlling interest
Total transactions with owners
At 31 August 2013
                               
                      301.5
                        62.4
                         (3.2)
                         (0.2)
                          3.2
                               
                       (21.1)
                          3.9
                       (17.4)
                        45.0
                               
                       (18.0)
                             -
                          0.9
                         (0.2)
                          0.6
                         (0.8)
                       (17.5)
                       329.0
                         49.2
                          (9.8)
                           1.2
                           2.6
                                 
                         17.1
                          (5.0)
                           6.1
                         55.3
                                 
                        (23.6)
                               -
                           0.7
                           0.3
                           0.2
                        (22.4)
                                 
                       361.9
                        18.0
                          3.8
                         (0.2)
                             -
                             -
                             -         
                             -
                         (0.2)
                               
                          3.6
                               
                         (2.6)
                             -
                             -
                         (1.8)
                             -
                         (0.8)
                         (5.2)
                         16.4
                           3.6
                          (1.8)
                               -
                               -
                                 
                               -
                               -
                          (1.8)
                           1.8
                          (3.3)
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           0.2
                          (3.1)
                         15.1
Total
equity
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
                      283.5
                        58.6
                               
                         (3.0)
                         (0.2)
                          3.2
                               
                       (21.1)
                          3.9
                       (17.2)
                        41.4
                               
                       (15.4)
                             -
                          0.9
                          1.6
                          0.6
                               
                             -
                       (12.3)
                       312.6
                         45.6
                          (8.0)
                           1.2
                           2.6
                         17.1
                          (5.0)
                           7.9
                         53.5
                        (20.3)
                               -
                           0.7
                           0.3
                               -
                        (19.3)
                               
                      346.8
Total
£m
                        65.9
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                                 
                         65.9
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                         65.9
Merger
reserve
£m
                         (2.5)
                             -
                             -
                         (0.2)
                          3.2
                               
                             -
                         (0.7)
                          2.3
                          2.3
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -         
                               
                             -
                             -
                          (0.2)
                               -
                                 
                               -
                           1.2
                           2.6
                                           
                               -
                          (0.6)
                           3.2
                           3.2
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           3.0
Hedging
reserve
£m
                        42.0
                             -
                               
                         (3.0)
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                         (3.0)
                         (3.0)
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                         39.0
                               -
                          (8.0)
                               -
                               -
                                 
                               -
                               -
                          (8.0)
                          (8.0)
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                         31.0
Exchange
reserve
£m
                        78.2
                        58.6
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               
                       (21.1)
                          4.6
                       (16.5)
                        42.1
                               
                       (15.4)
                         (0.2)
                          0.9
                          1.6
                          0.6
                               
                             -         
                       (12.5)
                       107.8
                         45.6
                               -
                               -
                               -
                         17.1
                          (4.4)
                         12.7
                         58.3
                        (20.3)
                          (0.1)
                           0.7
                           0.3
                               -
                        (19.4)
                       146.7
Retained
earnings
£m
                        51.7
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -         
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               -
                             -
                         51.7
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                         51.7
Share
premium
£m
                        48.2
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -         
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -         
                               
                             -
                          0.2
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                          0.2
                         48.4
                               -
                                 
                               -
                               -
                               -
                                 
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           0.1
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           0.1
                         48.5
                           23
                           23
                               
                           25
                             9
                               
                           10
                           28
                           26
                               
                               9
                               
                           23
                           23
                               
                           25
                             9
                           10
                           28
                           26
                             9
Share
capital
£m Notes
Attributable to owners of the parent
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 August 2013 62
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Notes to the Group financial statements
1.     Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and IFRS
interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
The directors consider that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In forming this
view, the directors have reviewed the Group’s cash flow projections against availability of financing.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of
judgement or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 2.
There were no new standards, amendments or interpretations adopted by the Group and effective for the first time for the financial year
beginning 1 September 2012 that were material to the Group. The Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ was adopted for
the first time for the financial year ended 31 August 2013. This requires changes to the presentation of other comprehensive income on the basis
of whether or not the respective items will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. 
A number of new standards, amendments or interpretations are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and
consequently have not yet been applied in preparing the financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant impact on the
Group’s reported results or financial position. The main change in 2014 will be the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised) ‘Employee Benefits’. The principal
impact of this standard is to replace the interest cost on defined benefit post-retirement scheme obligations and the expected return on scheme
assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit post-retirement scheme deficit. If this
standard had been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2013, the net impact would have been an additional
charge of £1.5m to profit before taxation in the income statement and a £1.2m increase in net assets in the balance sheet.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements of Fenner PLC and subsidiaries controlled by the Group as at 31 August 
each year.
(a) Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity so as to obtain
benefits from its activities. The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for the acquisition is
measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group at the
date of completion. Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The subsidiary’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the date that control is transfered or until control ceases respectively.
Where necessary, the accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are adjusted to bring them into line with those used by the Group. 
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity. Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of
those interests at the date of acquisition and the non-controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
(b) Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policy decisions of the
entity. The Group’s interest in associates is incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method. Investments in associates are
carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate,
less any impairment in the value of investments. Losses of associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those associates are not recognised.
Where a Group entity transacts with an associate, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in that entity.
Foreign currencies
(a) Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it
operates (the functional currency). The Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the presentation currency of 
the Group. 63
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
1.      Significant accounting policies continued
(b) Transactions and balances
Transactions in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are not retranslated. Exchange differences arising on the settlement and retranslation of
monetary items are recognised in the income statement in the period.
(c) Net investment in foreign operations
For the consolidation of operations where the functional currency is different to the Group’s presentation currency, the assets and liabilities are
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date and income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the
period. Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity in the exchange reserve. On disposal of such operations, the cumulative
exchange differences are included in the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets and liabilities of that operation and 
are retranslated at the closing rate at each balance sheet date. The Group has adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to not apply this to
goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, principally on despatch on domestic sales and in accordance with shipping terms for
export sales. Revenue from short-term service contracts is recognised in the period in which the services are completed. 
Interest income
Interest income relates to bank interest or similar income and is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value at the inception of the lease and the
present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease
payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Government grants
Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income in the balance sheet and are recognised in the
income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset. Government grants in respect of revenue expenditure are recognised in the
income statement in the period in which the related expenditure is incurred.
Share-based payments
The Group operates equity-settled share schemes and previously operated a cash-settled share scheme for certain employees. 
The cost of equity-settled share-based payments is measured at fair value at the date of grant, excluding the effect of non market-based vesting
conditions. The cost is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with the corresponding amount
credited to equity, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed annually
and the charge is adjusted accordingly in respect of non market-based vesting conditions. The fair values are measured using the Binomial
option-pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation approach.
The cost of cash-settled share-based payments was measured as per the equity-settled payments, except that it was recalculated at each
subsequent reporting date. In addition, the corresponding amount was credited to trade and other payables instead of equity.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group operates various pension schemes. The schemes are funded through trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial
calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes. 
For defined benefit schemes, the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance
sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 64
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. Current 
service costs are recognised in the income statement. Net finance costs or income are recognised in the income statement in the period in which
they are incurred. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited
to equity in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income
statement unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the
vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the income statement as they are incurred. The Group has no further payment
obligations once the contributions have been paid. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction
in the future payments is available.
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the
period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension schemes. Actuarial gains and losses arising
from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income
in the period in which they arise. These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
The Group has adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to recognise in full the cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 September 2004,
the date of transition to IFRS. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items of income and expense that are material and relevant to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance 
and may be operating or non-operating in nature. In accordance with IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’, such items are presented 
separately on the face of the income statement and analysed in the notes to the financial statements. 
Taxation
Taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable profit for the period using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the balance sheet date, together with any adjustments in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or deductible or are taxable or deductible in other years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, unless specifically exempt. Deferred tax assets
are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be
utilised. Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. The 
resulting charge or credit is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the
charge or credit is also recognised directly in equity.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Board are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by shareholders at the AGM. Interim
dividends are recognised when they are paid. 
Segmental reporting
Segmental information is reported in a manner consistent with the information provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. This information
is used for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use,
including borrowing costs for qualifying assets. The Group has adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to record the previously revalued
freehold land and buildings as deemed cost at 1 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is recognised in the income statement to write down the value of the asset to its
residual value on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset from the date it is brought into use. Estimated useful lives most
widely applied are as follows:
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings Unexpired term of lease
Plant, machinery and equipment 3-10 years 65
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
1.      Significant accounting policies continued
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term
of the relevant lease. Assets under construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and 
is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually,
or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Any impairment is recognised in
the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Any excess of the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities
of the acquired entity over cost is recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is included
within the carrying amount of the investment.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has been recorded at the previous UK GAAP carrying
amount at that date, subject to any impairment required at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 continues to be
included in reserves and is not included in any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value. Other intangible assets are initially recognised at
cost. Intangible assets are subsequently stated at fair value or cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives
most widely applied are as follows:
Computer software 3-5 years Order book within 1 year
Brands and trademarks 3-20 years Leases 5-7 years
Customer relationships 5-16 years Technology based assets 5 years
Non-compete agreements 3-6 years
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently
when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. The carrying amount of property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent
of any impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generative units that are expected
to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows
are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of
its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss previously been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit. Any reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income
statement. Impairment losses on goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with allowance for obsolete or slow moving items. Cost comprises direct
materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location
and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in
marketing, selling and distribution. Raw materials are generally determined on a first in, first out basis. 66
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
(a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. They are recognised
initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Provision is
made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due and this cost is recognised in the income
statement. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purposes of the cash flow statement,
cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts as they are an integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
(a) Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services acquired from suppliers in the ordinary course of business. They are recognised
initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(b) Borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are initially measured at fair value less direct transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement
over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including forward foreign currency contracts, options, currency swaps and non-derivative cash
instruments, including foreign currency borrowings, to hedge its exposure to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates or interest
rates. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently measured at fair value at each
balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised
directly in equity. Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the 
income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or the ineffective portion of financial
instruments that are designated and effective as hedges are recognised in the income statement as they are incurred.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument in equity at that time is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
Provisions
Provisions in respect of restructuring costs, property and environmental costs, contingent and deferred consideration on acquisition and
redemption liability on acquisitions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the
Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a suitable pre-tax rate which matches
the maturity of and risks associated with that liability. 
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly attributable issue costs. 67
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
2.     Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make certain assumptions, estimates and judgements that may affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These are based on historical experience and any other factors, including
expectations of future events, that are considered appropriate and these are continually reviewed. Subsequent actual results may however differ
from these estimates and judgements. Areas where assumptions, estimates and judgements may give rise to risk of material adjustments to the
carrying values of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are as follows:
Taxation
The Group is subject to taxation in various jurisdictions and uncertainties exist over the interpretation of the respective tax regulations and the
ultimate determination by the tax authorities in those jurisdictions. Taxation is calculated based on the best estimates of amounts expected to be
due. Where the final tax determination is different to the amounts initially recorded, they are subsequently adjusted in the period in which such
determination is made. Deferred taxation is recognised based on the estimated likelihood that future taxable profits will be available against
which temporary differences can be utilised. See notes 9 and 15.
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment testing for the carrying amount of goodwill is based on estimated recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, based on value in
use calculations. This is calculated using cash flow projections based on financial forecasts for a period of three years and, thereafter,
extrapolated using estimated growth rates in the respective territories. Cash flows are discounted using an appropriate pre-tax cost of capital for
each respective territory. See note 13.
Inventory provisions
The provision for inventory write downs is based on management’s estimate of the net realisable value of inventories. See note 16.
Impairment of trade receivables 
Impairment of trade receivables is based on management’s estimate of the recoverability of receivable amounts. This is based on a variety of
factors including past default experience. See note 17.
Retirement benefit obligations
Retirement benefit obligations are based on actuarial valuations that use a number of assumptions. These include the discount rate, which is
based on the interest rate of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency of the benefits and that have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related obligation, expected rates of return on assets, inflation rates, expected salary increases and mortality.
See note 25.
Provisions
Provisions represent management’s best estimate of expenditure required to settle obligations existing at the balance sheet date. For certain
obligations within contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions and redemption liability on acquisitions, payments are contingent on the
future performance of acquired businesses and this is estimated based on financial forecasts. Where material, obligations are discounted using
suitable rates based on borrowings that match the maturity of the consideration being discounted. See note 27. 68
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
3.     Segment information 
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used for internal management reporting.
For the purposes of managing the business, the Group is organised into two reportable segments: Engineered Conveyor Solutions and Advanced 
Engineered Products. 
Operating segments within these reportable segments have been aggregated where they have similar economic characteristics with similar
products and services, production processes, methods of distribution and customer types.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) for the purpose of IFRS 8 is the Board of Directors. The financial position of the segments is
reported to the CODM on a monthly basis and this information is used to assess the performance of the Group and to allocate resources on an
appropriate basis.
Segment performance is reviewed down to the operating profit level. Financing costs and taxation are managed on a Group basis so these costs
are not allocated to operating segments.
Transfer prices on inter-segment revenues are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Manufacture of rubber ply, solid woven and steel cord conveyor belting for mining, power 
generation and industrial applications with complementary service operations which design, install,
monitor, maintain and operate conveyor systems for mining and industrial customers.
Manufacture of precision polymer products including:
- precision drives for computer peripherals, copiers and ATMs;
- problem-solving power transmission and motion transfer components;
- silicone and complex hoses for heavy duty trucks, buses and off-road vehicles;
- lay-flat hoses for firefighting, agriculture, water and gas industries;
- seals and sealing solutions for the fluid power and oil & gas industries;
- technical textiles for medical and industrial applications and silicone-based products for 
medical applications;
- rollers for digital image processing and medical diagnostics; and
- fluropolymer components for fluid, oil and gas handling and medical applications.
Engineered Conveyor 
Solutions
Advanced Engineered
Products 69
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
3.     Segment information continued
Segment information for the years ended 31 August 2013 and 31 August 2012 is as follows:
Segment result
Total segment revenue
Inter-segment revenue
Revenue from external customers
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible 
assets acquired 
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired
Operating profit
Net finance costs
Taxation
Profit for the year
Segment assets and liabilities
Total assets
Total liabilities
Net assets
Other segment information
Capital expenditure per cash flow statement
Depreciation and amortisation
Impairment of non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets on acquisition
Unallocated corporate costs relate to corporate expenses incurred which cannot meaningfully be allocated to a segment. Unallocated corporate assets
and liabilities principally comprise deferred tax, borrowings and UK retirement benefit obligations.
Amortisation excludes amortisation of intangible assets acquired.
Geographical disclosures
The Group operates in four main geographical areas: United Kingdom; Rest of Europe, Middle East and Africa; Americas; and Asia Pacific.
Geographical information for the years ended 31 August 2013 and 31 August 2012 is as follows:
United Kingdom
Rest of Europe, Middle East and Africa
Americas
Asia Pacific
Revenue is based on the region in which the customer is located. Non-current assets and capital expenditure are based on the region in which the
assets are located. Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets and derivative financial assets.
No individual customer or group of customers represent more than 10% of Group revenue.
                             -
                             -
                                        
                             -
                         (9.2)
                             -
                         (9.2)
                        21.0
                     (233.8)
                               
                     (212.8)
                               
                          0.1
                          0.1
                             -
                             -
                      833.0
                         (2.4)
                      830.6
                      118.8
                       (11.2)
                      107.6
                       (19.0)
                       (26.2)
                        62.4
                      798.1
                     (469.1)
                      329.0
                               
                        28.9
                        20.2
                          1.8
                        31.0
                      821.3
                          (0.7)
                       820.6
                       101.5
                        (16.0)
                         85.5
                        (17.6)
                        (18.7)
                         49.2
                       830.4
                      (468.5)
                       361.9
                         27.3
                         23.1
                           3.9
                         73.0
                             -
                               -
                                 
                               -
                          (8.3)
                               -
                          (8.3)
                         21.8
                      (233.6)
                      (211.8)
                               -
                           0.1
                               -
                               -
                      239.6
                         (2.4)
                      237.2
                        43.6
                         (4.1)
                        39.5
                      240.6
                       (46.8)
                               
                      193.8
                        10.4
                          5.7
                          1.8
                          8.0
                         22.8
                       147.1
                       384.9
                       265.8
                                 
                       820.6
                        28.4
                      134.7
                      404.7
                      262.8
                      830.6
                          2.0
                          4.8
                        10.7
                        11.4
                               
                        28.9
                       549.8
                               -
                       549.8
                         63.0
                          (8.4)
                         54.6
                       536.3
                      (173.4)
                       362.9
                         18.2
                         15.3
                               -
                                 
                         23.6
                      593.4
                             -
                      593.4
                        84.4
                         (7.1)
                        77.3
                      536.5
                     (188.5)
                      348.0
                        18.4
                        14.4
                             -
                        23.0
                        35.9
                         50.2
                       239.8
                       157.2
                                 
                       483.1
                           2.8
                           6.2
                           7.0
                         11.3
                                 
                         27.3
                        30.6
                        29.5
                      228.7
                      148.0
                      436.8
                      271.5
                          (0.7)
                       270.8
                         46.8
                          (7.6)
                         39.2
                       272.3
                        (61.5)
                       210.8
                           9.1
                           7.7
                           3.9
                         49.4
2012
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
Total
Unallocated
Corporate
Advanced
Engineered Products
Engineered 
Conveyor Solutions
2012
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
Capital Expenditure Non-current Assets Revenue 70
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
4.     Revenue 
Revenue is analysed as follows:
Sales of goods 
Service contracts
5.     Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Material cost of sales
Aggregate employment costs
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets acquired
Impairment of other intangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired 
Amortisation of other intangible assets
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Release of deferred consideration on acquisitions
Profit on disposal of businesses
Research and development costs
Government grants
Operating lease charges
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired is classified within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
Total fees payable by the Group to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for work performed in respect of the audit and other services provided to the
Company and its subsidiary undertakings during the period are as follows:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services to the Company’s subsidiary undertakings:
- audit
- taxation advisory services
- other non-audit services
Further details of non-audit services can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 36.
In addition, fees for actuarial and audit services of less than £0.1m (2012: less than £0.1m) were borne by the Fenner Pension Scheme.
                       697.7
                       122.9
                       820.6
                                 
                      701.8
                      128.8
                      830.6
                               
                       297.2
                       248.3
                         22.0
                           3.6
                           0.3
                         16.0
                           1.1
                           0.3
                               -
                          (2.7)
                           3.5
                               -
                         13.2
                               
                      312.1
                      231.6
                        19.7
                          1.8
                             -
                        11.2
                          0.5
                         (0.1)
                         (1.7)
                             -
                          2.7
                         (0.4)
                        11.8
                           0.1
                                 
                           0.7
                           0.1
                           0.2
                          0.1
                               
                          0.6
                          0.1
                          0.1
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m 71
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
6.     Employees 
Aggregate employment costs are as follows:
Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Pension costs - defined contribution schemes
Pension costs - defined benefit schemes
Share-based payments - equity-settled
Share-based payments - cash-settled
The average monthly number of employees during the year, including executive directors, is as follows:
Production
Selling and distribution
Administration
Information on directors’ remuneration is included in the audited part of the Board Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 48.
7.     Finance income
Bank interest receivable
8.     Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans
Interest payable on other loans
Less amounts capitalised on qualifying assets
Interest payable
Interest on defined benefit post-retirement schemes (note 25)
Interest on the unwinding of discount on provisions (note 27)
Finance charge on redemption liability (note 27)
Interest on the unwinding of other loans
Finance charge on other loans
Notional interest
Total finance costs
                               
                          0.7
                               
                               
                            4.6
                        11.0
                        15.6
                             -
                        15.6
                          0.4
                          1.5
                          1.7
                          0.1
                          0.4
                               
                          4.1
                        19.7
                               
                           0.6
                           5.2
                         10.4
                         15.6
                          (0.4)
                         15.2
                           0.3
                           2.0
                           0.6
                           0.1
                               -
                           3.0
                         18.2
                      3,669
                         636
                         665
                      4,970
                       215.5
                         19.6
                         10.3
                           2.2
                           0.7
                               -
                       248.3
                      203.9
                        17.5
                          7.6
                          1.6
                          0.9
                          0.1
                      231.6
                       3,862
                          637
                          773
                       5,272
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012 2013
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m 72
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
9.     Taxation
Current taxation
UK corporation tax:
- current year
- double tax relief
- adjustments in respect of prior years
Overseas tax:
- current year
- adjustments in respect of prior years
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
UK: 
- current year
- adjustments in respect of prior years
Overseas:
- current year
- adjustments in respect of prior years
Total taxation
UK corporation tax is calculated at an average rate of 23.6% (2012: 25.2%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Overseas tax is
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The charge for the year and effective tax rate can be reconciled to profit per the income statement as follows:
Profit before taxation
Taxation at the average UK corporation tax rate of 23.6% (2012: 25.2%)
Expenses/income not allowable/taxable in determining taxable profit 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Effect of overseas tax rates 
Other temporary differences not provided for
Taxation at the effective tax rate of 27.5% (2012: 29.6%)
Taxation recognised directly in equity comprises a deferred taxation charge of £5.0m (2012: credit of £3.9m) and a current taxation credit of £0.3m
(2012: £0.6m). Deferred taxation in equity relates to a charge of £4.2m (2012: credit of £4.6m) in respect of actuarial gains and losses on defined
benefit post-retirement schemes, a charge of £0.6m (2012: £0.7m) in respect of cash flow and net investment hedges and a charge of £0.2m
(2012: £nil) in respect of share-based payments, recognised in other comprehensive income. Current taxation in equity relates to a credit of
£0.3m (2012: £0.6m) in respect of share-based payments, recognised in transactions with owners.
In the UK, the Finance Act 2013, which was substantively enacted on 17 July 2013, included legislation reducing the main rate of corporation 
tax from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015. This change has been reflected in these financial statements, resulting in a
£0.3m charge to equity and a £0.1m charge to the income statement.
                           1.5
                          (0.5)
                          (0.2)
                           0.8
                         19.1
                          (0.5)
                         18.6
                         19.4
                                 
                           0.8
                           0.3
                          (1.5)
                          (0.3)
                          (0.7)
                         18.7
                          0.6
                             -
                             -
                          0.6
                        24.0
                             -
                        24.0
                        24.6
                               
                          1.3
                         (0.2)
                         (0.3)
                          0.8
                          1.6
                        26.2
2012
£m
2013
£m
                               
                        88.6
                        22.3
                          0.3
                          0.6
                          4.0
                         (1.0)
                        26.2
                                 
                         67.9
                         16.0
                           0.8
                          (0.7)
                           2.0
                           0.6
                         18.7
2012
£m
2013
£m 73
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
10.   Dividends
Dividends paid or approved in the year
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 August 2012 of 3.5p (2011: 2.65p) per share
Final dividend for the year ended 31 August 2012 of 7.0p (2011: 5.35p) per share
Dividends neither paid nor approved in the year
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 August 2013 of 3.75p (2012: 3.5p) per share
Final dividend for the year ended 31 August 2013 of 7.5p (2012: 7.0p) per share
The interim dividend for the year ended 31 August 2013 was paid on 6 September 2013. The proposed final dividend for the year ended 
31 August 2013 is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM. Consequently, neither has been recognised as liabilities at 31 August 2013.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 7 March 2014 to shareholders on the register on 31 January 2014.
11.   Earnings per share
Earnings
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired
Notional interest
Taxation attributable to amortisation of intangible assets acquired and notional interest
Profit for the year before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and notional interest
Average number of shares
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Weighted average number of shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust
Weighted average number of shares in issue - basic
Effect of share options and contingent long-term incentive plans
Weighted average number of shares in issue - diluted
Earnings per share
Underlying - Basic (before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and notional interest)
Underlying - Diluted (before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and notional interest)
Basic
Diluted
Underlying earnings per share measures have been presented to provide a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
                           6.8
                         13.5
                         20.3
                           7.3
                         14.5
                         21.8
                               
                          5.1
                        10.3
                        15.4
                          6.8
                        13.5
                        20.3
                         45.6
                         16.0
                           3.0
                          (6.3)
                         58.3
                  number
           193,747,256
                 (114,177)
           193,633,079
                   269,004
           193,902,083
                      pence
                         30.1
                         30.1
                         23.5
                         23.5
                        58.6
                        11.2
                          4.1
                         (4.2)
                        69.7
                 number
           193,281,396
                 (114,177)
           193,167,219
               1,128,734
           194,295,953
                     pence
                        36.1
                        35.9
                        30.3
                        30.2
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m 74
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
12.   Property, plant and equipment 
Cost
At 1 September 2011
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals
Transfer to intangible assets
Transfers
Reclassifications
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals
Disposal of businesses
Transfers
Reclassifications
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 September 2011
Charge for the year
Disposals
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Charge for the year
Disposals
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Net book value
At 31 August 2013
At 31 August 2012
At 31 August 2011
The net book value of plant, machinery and equipment includes an amount of £2.7m (2012: £1.7m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The net book value includes capitalised borrowing costs for qualifying assets of £0.4m (2012: £nil). These have been calculated using the Group’s
weighted average borrowing rate of 5.2%.
Borrowings of £0.4m (2012: £0.4m) are secured on freehold property.
At 31 August 2013, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to £2.8m 
(2012: £2.3m). 
                      360.5
                        27.0
                          1.8
                         (5.7)
                         (0.2)
                             -
                             -
                         (5.3)
                                 
                       378.1
                         27.2
                           5.9
                          (3.9)
                          (0.4)
                               -
                               -
                          (3.2)
                                 
                       403.7
                               
                      152.9
                        19.7
                         (5.4)
                         (4.5)
                       162.7
                         22.0
                          (3.3)
                           1.9
                       183.3
                       220.4         
                        215.4
                      207.6         
                               
                      248.0
                        11.4
                          1.8
                         (5.1)
                         (0.2)
                          3.4
                         (0.4)
                         (4.8)
                       254.1
                         20.7
                           3.8
                          (3.5)
                          (0.2)
                         13.4
                           0.2
                          (2.0)
                      286.5
                       131.3
                        16.8
                         (4.8)
                         (4.0)
                       139.3
                         18.5
                          (3.1)
                           1.5
                       156.2
                       130.3         
                        114.8
                      116.7
                                           
                        91.3
                          0.9
                             -
                         (0.6)
                             -
                             -
                          0.4
                         (0.6)
                         91.4
                           2.6
                           2.1
                          (0.3)
                          (0.2)
                           0.3
                          (0.2)
                          (1.6)
                         94.1
                                        
                         17.6
                          1.8
                         (0.6)
                         (0.6)
                        18.2
                           1.9
                          (0.1)
                           0.3
                                 
                         20.3
                                 
                         73.8
                                           
                         73.2
                          73.7
                                        
Total
£m
Plant, 
machinery and 
equipment
£m
                          4.6
                        13.8
                             -
                             -
                             -
                         (3.4)
                             -
                         (0.2)
                        14.8
                           3.6
                               -
                               -
                               -
                        (14.1)
                               -
                           0.1
                           4.4
                               
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                                           
                               -
                                 
                           4.4
                        14.8
                          4.6
Assets under
construction
£m
Leasehold
property
£m
Freehold
property
£m
                        16.6
                          0.9
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                          0.3
                         17.8
                           0.3         
                               -
                          (0.1)
                               -
                           0.4
                               -
                           0.3
                         18.7         
                                        
                            4.0
                          1.1
                             -
                          0.1
                           5.2
                           1.6
                          (0.1)
                           0.1
                                 
                           6.8
                         11.9         
                          12.6
                        12.6 75
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
13.   Intangible assets
Cost
At 1 September 2011
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals 
Transfer from property, plant and equipment
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals 
Disposal of businesses
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 September 2011
Amortisation charge for the year
Impairment charge
Disposals 
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Amortisation charge for the year
Impairment charge
Disposals 
Disposal of businesses
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Net book value
At 31 August 2013
At 31 August 2012
At 31 August 2011
Other intangible assets acquired relate to order book, leases and technology based assets.
All intangible assets have finite useful lives except for goodwill.
The remaining useful lives at 31 August 2013 are approximately 2 to 15 years in respect of brands and trademarks, 2 to 14     years in respect of
customer relationships and 2 to 5 years in respect of non-compete agreements.
The impairment charge on goodwill and brands and trademarks in 2013 relates to Fenner Precision (Buffalo) and Xeridiem. The impairment
review was triggered by a reduction in the projected cash flows in these cash-generating units. This is classified within administrative expenses
in the consolidated income statement.
                               
                      237.7
                          2.5
                        29.2
                         (2.2)
                          0.2
                          1.5
                       268.9
                           1.8
                         67.1
                          (0.3)
                          (1.4)
                          (5.2)
                      330.9
                               
                        35.6
                        11.7
                          1.8
                         (2.0)
                          0.4
                                 
                         47.5
                         17.1
                           3.9
                          (0.3)
                          (0.1)
                           0.1
                         68.2
                       262.7         
                        221.4
                      202.1
                               
                          7.3
                          2.5
                             -
                         (2.2)
                          0.2
                             -
                           7.8
                           1.8
                               -
                          (0.3)
                               -
                          (0.1)
                           9.2
                          4.9
                          0.5
                             -         
                         (2.0)
                             -
                           3.4
                           1.1
                           0.3
                          (0.3)
                               -
                          (0.1)
                           4.4
                                 
                           4.8
                             4.4
                          2.4
                          3.1
                             -
                          0.2
                             -
                             -
                             -
                           3.3
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                          (0.1)
                           3.2
                          2.4
                          0.2
                             -
                             -
                             -
                           2.6
                           0.2
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           2.8
                           0.4
                             0.7
                          0.7
Total
£m
Computer 
software
£m
Other
£m
                        86.2
                             -
                        18.5
                             -
                             -
                          1.2
                       105.9
                               -
                         35.9
                               -
                          (1.4)
                          (2.1)
                       138.3
                               
                               
                         19.6
                          9.2
                             -
                             -
                          0.4
                         29.2
                         12.4
                               -
                               -
                          (0.1)
                           0.1
                         41.6
                         96.7         
                          76.7
                        66.6
Customer
relationships
£m
Brands and 
trademarks
£m
                        23.0
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                          0.1
                         23.1
                               -
                           2.1
                               -
                               -
                          (0.1)
                         25.1
                               
                            6.0
                          1.4
                             -
                             -
                             -
                           7.4
                           1.8
                           0.7
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           9.9
                         15.2         
                          15.7
                        17.0
                               
                             -
                             -
                          2.4
                             -
                             -
                             -
                           2.4
                               -
                           5.2
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           7.6
                               
                             -
                          0.4
                             -
                             -
                             -
                           0.4
                           1.6
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           2.0
                                 
                           5.6
                             2.0
                             -
Non-compete
agreements
£m
Goodwill
£m
                               
                       118.1
                             -
                          8.1
                             -
                             -
                          0.2
                       126.4
                               -
                         23.9
                               -
                               -
                          (2.8)
                      147.5
                          2.7
                             -
                          1.8
                             -
                             -
                           4.5
                               -
                           2.9
                               -
                               -
                           0.1
                           7.5
                       140.0          
                                  
                        121.9
                      115.4
Intangible assets acquired 76
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Impairment testing for goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated at acquisition to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units as follows:
Engineered Conveyor Solutions
Fenner Dunlop (Americas, Europe and Australia)
Conveyor Belting (India)
Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services (Americas)
Spliceline
Northern Belting Specialists
BBCS / LECS
Statewide Belting Service
Allison
Australian Conv eyor Engineering
Advanced Engineered Products
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies (Process)
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies (Fluid Power)
Dawson Hose (UK)
Fenner Drives (US)
Secant Medical
Fenner Precision (Buffalo)
Xeridiem
Multiseals
Transeals
American Industrial Plastics
Norwegian Seals
Mandals
The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amounts may be impaired. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are based on value in use calculations using
discounted cash flow projections. The key assumptions used to determine the value in use relate to profits derived from sales volumes, selling
prices and costs, growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
Cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts for a period of three years which have been approved by Group management. The principal
components of these forecasts: sales volumes, selling prices and costs, are based on recent history and expected future changes in operating
conditions. Cash flows beyond a period of three years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates in the respective territories. These rates
range from 0.7% to 3.9% for all cash-generating units except for Conveyor Belting (India) where a rate of 6.5% has been applied. Cash flows are
discounted using an appropriate pre-tax cost of capital for each respective territory. A range of discount rates between 10.1% to 13.8% were used
for all cash-generating units except for Conveyor Belting (India) where a rate of 18.7% was used. The discount rates reflect the risk profiles in the
respective territories.
The above assumptions apply to all of the Group’s cash-generating units.
At 31 August 2013, there is significant headroom between the value in use calculation and the carrying value for all of the cash-generating units
in the above table except for Xeridiem and Fenner Precision (Buffalo) which were impaired during the year. At 31 August 2013, the remaining
goodwill held on the balance sheet in respect of Xeridiem and Fenner Precision (Buffalo) was £0.2m and £1.4m respectively. Sensitivity
disclosures have not been provided as these amounts are not considered to be material.
                         14.3
                           2.0
                         14.4
                           0.9
                           2.4
                         10.9
                           4.9
                           4.5
                           5.4
                                 
                         16.5
                         27.8
                           2.2
                           3.4
                           7.3
                           1.4
                           0.2
                           1.0
                           3.3
                           8.7
                           6.4
                           2.1
                       140.0
                                 
                        14.3
                          2.0
                        13.7
                          1.0
                          2.7
                        12.4
                          5.5
                          4.4
                             -
                        16.0
                        28.2
                          2.2
                          3.4
                          7.1
                          2.9
                          1.5
                          0.9
                          3.7
                             -
                             -
                             -          
                      121.9
2012
£m
2013
£m 77
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
                               
                          0.3
                          (0.3)
                               -
                               
                          0.1
                         (0.1)
                               -
                               -
                          0.2
Associates
£m
14.   Other investments
Cost
At 1 September 2011
Disposals
At 1 September 2012 and at 31 August 2013
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 September 2011
Disposals
At 1 September 2012 and at 31 August 2013
Net book value
At 31 August 2013 and at 31 August 2012
At 31 August 2011
15.   Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are attributable to the following:
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets 
Retirement benefit obligations
Taxation losses
Fixed asset revaluation
Other short-term temporary differences
Offset between assets and liabilities
Movements in net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are as follows:
At 1 September 2011
(Charged)/credited to income statement
Credited/(charged) to equity
Acquisition of businesses
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Credited/(charged) to income statement
Charged to equity
Acquisition of businesses
Disposal of businesses
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
                           2.7
                           0.7
                           6.2
                           0.6
                               -
                         15.3
                        (11.7)
                         13.8
                          1.6
                          2.4
                        11.6
                          0.7
                             -
                        17.5
                       (12.9)
                               
                        20.9
                          (9.6)
                        (12.9)
                               -
                               -
                          (0.8)
                          (0.3)
                         11.7
                        (11.9)
                         (9.7)
                         (9.8)
                         (0.3)
                             -
                         (0.8)
                         (0.4)
                        12.9
                               
                         (8.1)
                         (8.1)
                         (7.4)
                        11.3
                          0.7
                         (0.8)
                        17.1
                             -
                               
                        12.8
                        11.3
                         (1.6)
                          3.9
                         (1.0)
                          0.2
                         12.8
                           0.7
                          (5.0)
                          (8.1)
                           0.4
                           1.1
                           1.9
                               
                        17.2
                          0.4
                         (0.7)
                             -
                          0.2
                         17.1
                          (1.5)
                          (0.8)
                           0.4
                               -
                          (0.2)
                         15.0
                         (0.9)
                             -
                             -
                             -
                          0.1
                          (0.8)
                           0.1
                               -
                               -
                               -
                          (0.1)
                          (0.8)
                          1.9
                         (1.3)
                             -
                             -
                          0.1
                           0.7
                          (0.1)
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                           0.6
                          8.2
                         (1.3)
                          4.6
                             -
                         (0.2)
                         11.3
                          (1.2)
                          (4.2)
                               -
                               -
                           0.3
                           6.2
Total
£m
Other 
temporary
differences
£m
Fixed
asset
revaluation
£m
Taxation
losses
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
                         (7.4)
                          0.9
                             -
                         (1.0)
                          0.1
                          (7.4)
                           2.0
                               -
                          (8.6)
                           0.4
                           1.4
                        (12.2)
                               
Intangible
assets
£m
 
                         (7.7)
                         (0.3)
                             -
                             -
                         (0.1)
                          (8.1)
                           1.4
                               -
                           0.1
                               -
                          (0.3)
                          (6.9)
Property,
plant and
equipment
£m
                          (6.9)
                        (12.2)
                           6.2
                           0.6
                          (0.8)
                         15.0
                               -
                           1.9
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
Net Assets Liabilities 78
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset of current tax and there
is an intention to settle the balances net. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of certain tax losses amounting to £0.5m
(2012: £0.3m) since it is not envisaged that such profits will be available in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred tax assets have not been
recognised in respect of UK capital losses of £0.4m (2012: £0.4m) since it is not envisaged that suitable capital gains will be available in the
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the
timing of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate of
temporary differences in respect of this is £1.6m (2012: £1.0m). 
16.   Inventories 
Raw materials 
Work in progress
Finished goods
Inventories are presented net of provision for inventory write downs, based on management’s estimate of the net realisable value of inventories.
The amount charged to the income statement in the year in respect of write downs of inventories is £4.1m (2012: £4.6m). The amount credited to
the income statement in the year in respect of reversals of write downs of inventories is £1.1m (2012: £0.7m), principally resulting from the
subsequent sale of inventory previously provided for. These amounts are classified within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement. The
cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the year is £511.5m (2012: £514.4m).
17.   Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables
Other receivables
Prepayments and accrued income
Trade receivables are presented net of provision for impairment of trade receivables of £2.8m (2012: £2.0m), estimated by management based on
past default experience and other factors as considered appropriate.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
At 1 September 2012
New provisions charged to income statement during the year
Provisions not required credited to income statement during the year
Provisions utilised during the year
At 31 August 2013
New provisions and provisions not required are classified within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
2012
£m
2013
£m
                          2.3
                          0.4
                         (0.2)
                         (0.5)
                          2.0
                           2.0
                           1.0
                               -
                          (0.2)
                           2.8
                      109.1
                          4.2
                          7.3
                      120.6
                       120.9
                           5.0
                           7.3
                       133.2
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
                         30.2
                         20.0
                         41.6         
                                 
                         91.8
                               
                        34.9
                        22.6
                        48.1
                      105.6 79
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
17.   Trade and other receivables continued
The ageing analysis of trade receivables not impaired, based on the due date, is as follows:
Not overdue
Less than one month
Between one and two months
Between two and three months
Between three and six months
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing. There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of trade and
other receivables.
18.   Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand
Short-term deposits
Cash at bank and short-term deposits earn interest at floating rates based on bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits have an original maturity
of three months or less. There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of cash and cash equivalents.
19.   Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Net (increase)/decrease in borrowings resulting from cash flows
Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows
Loans and finance leases on acquisition of businesses
Finance leases
Transfer of non-controlling interests from equity
Notional interest on other loans
Exchange movements
Movement in net debt in the year
Net debt at 1 September 2012
Net debt at 31 August 2013
Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents of £99.2m (2012: £108.7m), current borrowings of £14.4m (2012: £11.0m) and non-current
borrowings of £205.9m (2012: £195.4m).
                        78.4
                        30.3
                      108.7
                         79.2
                         20.0
                         99.2
                               
                        77.2
                        25.3
                          3.9
                          1.1
                          1.6
                      109.1
                         92.6
                         20.9
                           4.3
                           1.1
                           2.0
                       120.9
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
                          4.2
                          6.5
                        10.7
                             -
                         (0.6)
                         (0.8)
                         (0.5)
                         (4.7)
                                        
                          4.1
                     (101.8)
                       (97.7)
                        (12.6)
                          (5.3)
                        (17.9)
                          (3.6)
                          (1.4)
                               -
                          (0.1)
                          (0.4)
                        (23.4)
                        (97.7)
                      (121.1)
2012
£m
2013
£m 80
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
20.   Financial risk management
In the normal course of business, the Group is exposed to certain financial risks, principally foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk
and credit risk. These risks are managed by the central treasury function in conjunction with the operating units, in accordance with risk
management policies that are designed to minimise the potential adverse effects of these risks on financial performance. The policies are
reviewed and approved by the Board.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group has operations around the world and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in foreign operations.
Where cost effective, the exposures arising from the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations are managed through the use
of borrowings or cross-currency swaps in the relevant foreign currency. 
Some Group operations also enter into commercial transactions in currencies other than their functional currencies. Exposures arising from the
translation of foreign currency transactions are continually monitored and material exposures are managed through the use of forward contracts
or options once cash flows can be identified with sufficient certainty. Exposures arising from the translation of intra-group lending are managed
through the use of borrowings in the relevant foreign currency. 
The following table shows the impact (due to the retranslation of non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities in the Group's
operations) of a, reasonably possible, 10% movement in the Group’s principal foreign currency exchange rates at the year end date.
31 August 2013
US dollar
Euro
Australian dollar
31 August 2012
US dollar
Euro
Australian dollar
The effect on profit before taxation is due to the retranslation of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, trade payables and
derivative financial assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. The effect on shareholders’ equity is due to the effect on profit as
well as the effect of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies qualified as either cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Further details of the currency profile of borrowings are given in note 22.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises on floating rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents. This is reviewed regularly and is
managed through the use of an appropriate mix of fixed rate and floating rate instruments in response to market conditions.
The impact of interest rate risk on the Group's result is due to changes in interest rates on net floating rate cash and cash equivalents and
borrowings. At 31 August 2013, if interest rates on the Group's net floating rate cash and cash equivalents and borrowings had been 100 basis
points higher, a reasonably possible movement, with all other variables held constant, the effect on profit before taxation in the year would have
been a credit of £0.7m (2012: £0.8m). A reduction of 100 basis points would have the equal and opposite effect. There is no further impact on
shareholders' equity.
Further details of the interest rate profile of borrowings are given in note 22.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its liquidity risk to ensure that sufficient resources are available for both short-term working capital and longer-term
strategic requirements. This is achieved through an appropriate mix of long and short-term borrowings and, as far as possible, the major part of
the Group’s total borrowings are managed so that they are drawn down using committed debt facilities which would not mature for at least one
year. The Group’s principal loan facilities are raised and managed centrally but are supplemented by local overdraft and working capital facilities.
Committed debt facilities principally comprise bank loans and private placements.
The Group regularly monitors expected cash flows against availability of financing. Regular updating of business forecasts, including cash flows,
is a process embedded into the Group’s internal financial reporting routines. Forecasts are initially carried out at an individual operating unit 
Effect on
profit before
taxation
£m
Effect on
shareholders'
equity
£m
Effect on
profit before
taxation
£m
Effect on
shareholders'
equity
£m
10% increase 10% decrease
                               
                          (9.4)
                          (1.8)
                          (6.5)
                          (9.5)
                         (1.6)
                         (7.5)
                               
                          0.3
                           0.2
                           0.1
                               -
                          0.2
                             -
                               
                        (0.3)
                          (0.1)
                          (0.1)
                                 
                               -
                         (0.1)
                             -
                                  
                               
                                  
                           7.7
                           1.4
                           5.4
                               
                          7.7
                          1.3
                          6.1 81
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
20.   Financial risk management continued
level, but are consolidated and reviewed by Group management. The availability of financing, headroom over existing facilities and forward
compliance with financial covenants are monitored against expected cash flows. The process takes into account the shorter-term liquidity needs
of individual operating units or territories as well as the availability of funding to fulfil longer-term strategic objectives such as major capital
expenditure or business acquisitions.
The maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities is as follows:
31 August 2013
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities)
Bank overdrafts
Bank loans
Other loans
Finance leases
31 August 2012
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities)
Bank loans
Other loans
Finance leases
The above analysis includes both principal and interest amounts.
The maturity profile of derivative financial assets/(liabilities) is as follows:
31 August 2013
Forward foreign currency contracts and options:
- outflow
- inflow
Currency swaps:
- outflow
- inflow
31 August 2012
Forward foreign currency contracts and options:
- outflow
- inflow
Currency swaps:
- outflow
- inflow
The above analyses for non-derivative and derivative financial instruments show the contractual undiscounted cash flows based on the earliest
date that the Group may be required to settle the instrument.
                       141.0
                           0.1
                         14.5
                         10.4
                           1.2
                       167.2
                       144.0
                          9.9
                        10.3
                          0.8
                      165.0         
                                  
                       141.7
                           0.1
                         32.6
                       269.8
                           2.4
                       446.6         
                                           
                                           
                       146.0
                        23.7
                      268.5
                          1.9
                      440.1
                               
                               -
                               -
                               -
                       163.4
                               -
                       163.4         
                                        
                                        
                             -
                             -
                      162.0
                             -
                      162.0
Total
£m
More than
five years
£m
                                  
                          0.7
                               -
                         18.1
                         96.0
                           1.2
                       116.0
                          2.0
                        13.8
                        96.2
                          1.1
                      113.1
                               
Between
one and
five years
£m
Less than
one year
£m
                                  
                       (21.0)
                         21.3
                           0.3
                                 
                      (155.6)
                       153.9
                          (1.7)       
                                        
                                        
                                        
                       (29.6)
                        29.5
                               
                         (0.1)
                               
                    (106.3)
                        97.1
                               
                        (9.2)
                               
                               
                                  
                             -
                               -
                               -
                                 
                        (37.8)
                         37.5
                          (0.3)       
                                        
                                        
                                        
                             -
                             -
                               
                             -
                               
                       (45.2)
                        38.0
                               
                         (7.2)
                               
                               
                        (0.4)
                           0.4
                               -
                                 
                        (28.4)
                         26.8
                          (1.6)       
                                        
                                        
                                        
                         (0.3)
                          0.3
                               
                             -
                               
                       (29.0)
                        27.2
                               
                         (1.8)
                                  
                               
                        (20.6)
                         20.9
                           0.3
                                 
                        (89.4)
                         89.6
                           0.2
                        (29.3)
                        29.2
                               
                         (0.1)
                               
                       (32.1)
                        31.9
                               
                         (0.2)
Total
£m
More than
five years
£m
Between
one and
five years
£m
Less than
one year
£m 82
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
                               
                        97.7
                      107.6
                        33.2
                      140.8
                          0.7
                       121.1
                         85.5
                         43.0
                       128.5
                           0.9
                      140.8
                        14.9
                          9.4
                       128.5
                         14.6
                           8.8
Credit risk
Credit risk principally arises on short-term deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables. 
The credit risk arising on short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is managed through the use of counterparties with high credit
ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. 
The Group only trades with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is the Group's policy that all customers who wish to take on credit terms are
subject to credit verification procedures. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and the Group's exposure to bad debts is not
significant. The credit risk arising on trade receivables is spread across a large number of customers and across many countries. There are no
significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group's maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
An analysis showing the ageing of trade receivables not impaired is given in note 17.
21.   Capital management
The primary objective of the Group's capital management of total equity and net debt is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to
support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in
economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to
shareholders or issue new shares and vary the maturity profile of its borrowings. The Group monitors capital using the following indicators:
Net debt to EBITDA ratio
Net debt (£m)
Operating profit (£m)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges (£m)
EBITDA (£m)
Net debt to EBITDA ratio
Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges.
EBITDA interest cover
EBITDA (£m)
Net interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans, other loans and bank deposits (£m) 
Interest cover (times)
EBITDA interest cover comprises operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges divided by net interest payable on
bank overdrafts and loans, other loans and bank deposits.
The Group’s principal loan covenants are: EBITDA interest cover (EBITDA being at least 3 times the net interest payable); and net debt to EBITDA
ratio (net debt being less than 3.5 times adjusted EBITDA).
At 31 August 2013, the Group comfortably complied with its loan covenants. EBITDA interest cover was 8.8 times (2012: 9.4 times) while net debt
to reported EBITDA was 0.9 times (2012: 0.7 times). In addition, for compliance with loan covenants, reported EBITDA is adjusted for, inter alia,
acquisitions and non-cash items; therefore, the measures improve when adjusted for these items.
2012 2013
2012 2013 83
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
22.   Borrowings 
Current
Bank overdrafts
Bank loans
Other loans
Obligations under finance leases
Non-current
Bank loans
Other loans
Obligations under finance leases
Total borrowings
Bank loans principally comprise £29.0m (2012: £16.5m) drawn down under committed revolving bank credit facilities expiring between May 2014
and April 2017. 
Other loans principally comprise US dollar private placements (Senior Guaranteed Loan Notes) as follows:
$27.2m (£17.5m) of the 2017 private placement has been swapped into sterling and this sterling balance then swapped into euros, resulting in an
underlying euro borrowing of €20.0m at a fixed rate of 5.05% which matures on 1 June 2017.
$44.7m (£28.8m) of the 2023 private placement has been swapped into sterling and this sterling balance then swapped into Australian dollars,
resulting in an underlying Australian dollar borrowing of AUD$45.0m at a fixed rate of 8.43% which matures on 1 September 2023.
Arrangement fees of £0.6m (2012: £0.7m) are being amortised over the lives of the respective loans.
Bank balances are stated net where a legal right of offset exists.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of lease obligations, are analysed as follows:
Minimum lease payments:
Less than one year
After one year but not more than five years
Finance charges
Present value of finance lease obligations
The present value of finance lease obligations comprises £1.0m (2012: £0.8m) due in less than one year and £1.2m (2012: £1.0m) due after one
year but not more than five years.
                             -
                          9.9
                          0.3
                          0.8
                               
                        11.0
                        11.0
                      183.4
                          1.0
                      195.4
                      206.4
                           0.1
                         13.2
                           0.1
                           1.0
                         14.4
                                 
                         16.5
                       188.2
                           1.2
                                 
                       205.9
                       220.3
2012
£m
2013
£m
1 June 2017
1 September 2021
1 September 2021
1 September 2023
                        56.6
                        50.3
                        34.6
                        40.9
                      182.4
                         58.1
                         51.6
                         35.5
                         41.9
                       187.1
US$90.0m
US$80.0m
US$55.0m
US$65.0m
                     5.78%
                     5.12%
                     5.27%
                     5.42%
Principal Maturity Interest rate
2012
£m
2013
£m
                          0.8
                          1.1
                          1.9
                         (0.1)
                               
                          1.8
                           1.2
                           1.2
                                 
                           2.4
                          (0.2)
                           2.2
2012
£m
2013
£m 84
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
The interest rate and currency profile of borrowings, after currency swaps, is as follows:
31 August 2013
US dollar
Euro
Australian dollar
Other currencies
31 August 2012
US dollar
Euro
Australian dollar
Other currencies
Fixed rate borrowings principally relate to the US dollar private placements and related currency swaps. The interest rates on floating rate
borrowings are principally linked to LIBOR or similar local currency rates .
The carrying amount and fair value of borrowings is as follows:
Current borrowings
Non-current borrowings
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings represents the value of replacing the existing fixed rate liabilities at the balance sheet date with borrowings
with similar terms to the remaining life of the loans. The fair value of all other floating rate borrowings approximates to their carrying amounts
where rates are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
At 31 August 2013, the Group had available £71.0m (2012: £106.2m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities which expire between May 2014
and April 2017. 
Non-current borrowings of £0.4m (2012: £0.4m) are secured on specific freehold property.
                               
                      144.8
                         17.2
                         27.3
                         31.0
                       220.3
                      137.2
                        16.2
                        41.6
                        11.4
                               
                      206.4
                               
                      143.6
                         17.1
                         25.8
                           1.4
                      187.9
                      136.5
                        15.9
                        29.2
                             -
                      181.6
Total
£m
Fixed
rate
£m
                               
                          1.2
                           0.1
                           1.5
                         29.6
                        32.4
                          0.7
                          0.3
                        12.4
                        11.4
                        24.8
Floating
rate
£m
                        11.0
                      217.6
                               
                      228.6
                        11.0
                      195.4
                               
                      206.4
Fair 
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
                         14.4
                       218.2
                       232.6
                         14.4
                       205.9
                       220.3
Fair 
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
2013 2012 85
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
23.   Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Non-current
Currency swaps:
- Cash flow hedges
- Net investment hedges
Current
Forward foreign currency contracts and options - held for trading
Currency swaps:
- Net investment hedges
Analysed as:
Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss
Derivative financial instruments used for hedging
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is equal to the carrying amount. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts represents the
gain or loss resulting from translation of the contracts using forward rates at the balance sheet date compared to actual contract rates. The fair value
of currency swaps and forward foreign currency options represents the market value of a comparable instrument at the balance sheet date.
All derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value using observable inputs (level 2 inputs per the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 7).
Forward foreign currency contracts and options
The gain on forward foreign currency contracts and options of £0.4m (2012: £0.1m) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the
consolidated income statement.
Currency swaps
The currency swaps are principally in respect of US dollars that have been swapped into sterling and this sterling balance then swapped into
euros and Australian dollars as detailed in note 22. The gain of £2.9m (2012: £3.0m) is recognised as a cash flow hedge gain of £1.2m (2012: loss
of £0.2m) and a net investment hedge gain of £1.7m (2012: £3.2m) in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income.
Hedging
Group financial instruments denominated in euros, Australian dollars and US dollars are designated as hedges of the net investment in overseas
subsidiaries. The overall gain on translation to sterling at the year end of £2.6m (2012: £3.2m) is recognised as a net investment hedge gain in the
hedging reserve in other comprehensive income. This comprises a gain of £1.7m (2012: £3.2m) in respect of derivative financial instruments,
above, and a gain of £0.9m (2012: £nil) in respect of borrowings.
The overall cash flow hedge gain of £1.2m (2012: loss of £0.2m) recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income is in respect of
derivative financial instruments.
No ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges or net investment hedges has been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
                             -
                        (0.2)
                               
                        (0.2)
                                 
                           0.4
                           2.7
                           3.1
                          4.5
                         (5.2)
                         (0.7)
                             -
                          0.5
                          0.5
                           5.7
                          (3.8)
                           1.9
                           0.4
                           0.8
                           1.2
2012
£m
2013
£m
                             -
                        (5.2)
                               
                        (5.2)
                               
                             -
                               
                             -
                               
                             -
2012
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets Liabilities Net
                               -
                          (3.8)
                          (3.8)
                               -
                          (0.1)
                          (0.1)
                           5.7
                               -
                           5.7
                           0.4
                           0.9
                           1.3
                          4.5
                             -
                               
                          4.5
                             -
                               
                          0.5
                               
                          0.5
2012
£m
2013
£m
                             -
                        (5.2)
                               
                        (5.2)
2012
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets Liabilities Net
                               -
                          (3.9)
                          (3.9)
                           0.4
                           6.6
                           7.0
                             -
                          5.0
                               
                          5.0 86
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
24. Trade and other payables
Current
Trade payables 
Taxes and social security
Other payables
Accruals and deferred income
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing. There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of trade and 
other payables.
25.   Post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined benefit post-retirement schemes for qualifying employees in operations around the world. The assets of
the schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds. The cost of the schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of
independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit method. 
The principal scheme is the Fenner Pension Scheme which is based in the UK and was closed to new entrants in 1997. The most recent triennial
valuation of the Fenner Pension Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2011. The actuarial valuations for all schemes were updated as at 31
August 2013 by independent qualified actuaries.
The principal assumptions used to determine the assets and liabilities of the schemes are as follows:
Discount rate
Inflation rate - RPI
Inflation rate - CPI
Rate of increase in salaries
Rate of increase in benefits in payment subject to Limited Price Indexation increases:
- capped at 5.0% (based on RPI)
- capped at 2.5% (based on RPI)
- capped at 3.0% (based on CPI)
The principal assumptions of the schemes are determined using appropriate expert advice and available market data. The assumptions of the
overseas schemes are given as a range of values in respect of the individual schemes. The range of values is a consequence of the diversity of
territories in which the Group operates defined benefit schemes.
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date are based on standard actuarial mortality
tables, with adjustments to reflect the schemes' actual mortality experience. In respect of the Fenner Pension Scheme, the Group has used SAPS
S1 mortality tables based on year of birth (as published by the Institute of Actuaries) for both pensioner and non-pensioner members, adjusted to
reflect the results of an investigation into the actual mortality experience of Scheme members. In addition, to allow for future improvements in
longevity, the medium cohort tables (published by the Institute of Actuaries) have been used with a minimum long-term rate of future annual
mortality improvement of 1%. 
           3.2% - 5.0%
                       2.0%
                               
           2.0% - 4.5%
                        4.0%
                       2.5%
                       2.0%
                       3.5%
                               
                       2.5%
                       1.8%
                       1.8%
                        4.5%
                        3.3%
                        2.8%
                        4.3%
                                 
                        3.1%
                        2.1%
                        2.2%
Overseas
schemes
UK
scheme
           3.5% - 5.0%
                        2.0%
           2.0% - 4.5%
Overseas
schemes
UK
scheme
2013 2012
                        80.7
                          3.4
                        16.1
                        47.2
                      147.4
                          2.0
                         84.3
                           5.5
                         18.6
                         38.1
                       146.5
                           0.7
2012
£m
2013
£m 87
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
25.   Post-retirement benefits continued
The expected future lifetime of average members currently at age 65 and average members at age 65 in 20 years time (i.e. members currently
aged 45 years) is as follows:
Current pensioner at age 65:
- men
- women
Future pensioner at age 65 (current age 45):
- men
- women
The fair value of assets of the schemes are as follows:
Equity
Bonds
Cash
Other
Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement are as follows: 
Current service cost
Interest on obligations
Expected return on assets of the schemes
The current service cost is classified within administrative expenses and the interest on obligations and expected return on assets of the
schemes are classified as notional interest within finance costs in the consolidated income statement. 
The actual return on assets of the schemes is a gain of £18.3m (2012: £16.2m).
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they are incurred. These
amounted to a gain of £17.1m (2012: loss of £21.1m). The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income since 
1 September 2004 is £12.8m (2012: £29.9m).
Amounts recognised as retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet are as follows:
Present value of obligations 
Fair value of assets of the schemes 
Unrecognised past service cost
The present value of obligations includes £0.5m (2012: £0.5m) in respect of schemes that are wholly unfunded.
                      (149.3)
                       133.1
                               -
                        (16.2)
                        (42.6)
                         31.4
                           0.6
                        (10.6)
                     (194.1)
                      145.2
                          0.7
                       (48.2)
                       (43.1)
                        30.1
                          0.7
                       (12.3)
                                 
                      (191.9)
                       164.5
                           0.6
                        (26.8)
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
                     (151.0)
                      115.1
                             -
                       (35.9)
UK
scheme
£m
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
UK
scheme
£m
2013 2012
                          1.6
                          8.6
                         (8.2)
                          2.0
                          0.7
                          1.6
                         (1.2)
                          1.1
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
                          0.9
                          7.0
                         (7.0)
                          0.9
UK
scheme
£m
2012
                           2.2
                           7.4
                          (7.1)
                           2.5
Total
£m
                           1.1
                           5.9
                          (6.0)
                           1.0
                           1.1
                           1.5
                          (1.1)
                           1.5
Overseas
schemes
£m
UK
scheme
£m
2013
                       112.4
                           4.0
                         16.7
                               -
                       133.1
                           4.7
                         25.1
                           0.7
                           0.9
                         31.4
                        92.1
                        28.6
                        23.6
                          0.9
                      145.2
                          4.5
                        24.7
                             -
                          0.9
                        30.1
                               
                        87.6
                          3.9
                        23.6
                             -
                      115.1
                       117.1
                         29.1
                         17.4
                           0.9
                       164.5
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
UK
scheme
£m
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
UK
scheme
£m
2013 2012
         19 - 21 years
         21 - 23 years
         19 - 23 years
         21 - 24 years
                 21 years
                 24 years
                 23 years
                 26 years
                 21 years
                 24 years
                                 
                 23 years
                 26 years
Overseas
schemes
UK
scheme
         19 - 22 years
         21 - 23 years
         19 - 23 years
         21 - 24 years
Overseas
schemes
UK
scheme
2013 2012 88
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Movements in the present value of obligations are as follows:
At 1 September 2011
Current service cost
Interest on obligations
Actuarial losses
Employee contributions
Benefits paid
Settlements
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Current service cost
Interest on obligations
Actuarial gains
Employee contributions
Benefits paid
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Movements in the fair value of assets of the schemes are as follows:
At 1 September 2011
Expected return on assets of the schemes
Actuarial gains
Employer contributions
Employee contributions
Benefits paid
Settlements
Exchange differences
At 1 September 2012
Expected return on assets of the schemes
Actuarial gains/(losses)
Employer contributions
Employee contributions
Benefits paid
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Experience adjustments are as follows:
Present value of obligations
Fair value of assets of the schemes
Unrecognised past service cost
Deficit in the schemes
Experience gains/(losses) on liabilities of the schemes
Experience gains/(losses) on assets of the schemes
                      133.8
                          8.2
                          8.0
                          5.8
                          0.7
                         (8.2)
                         (0.9)
                         (2.2)
                       145.2
                           7.1
                         11.2
                           7.7
                           0.7
                          (8.7)
                           1.3
                       164.5
                               
                        26.4
                          1.2
                          4.9
                          1.5
                          0.4
                         (1.2)
                         (0.9)
                         (2.2)
                         30.1
                           1.1
                          (1.4)
                           1.7
                           0.4
                          (1.8)
                           1.3
                         31.4
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
                      107.4
                          7.0
                          3.1
                          4.3
                          0.3
                         (7.0)
                             -
                             -
                       115.1
                           6.0
                         12.6
                           6.0
                           0.3
                          (6.9)
                               -
                       133.1
UK
scheme
£m
                     (153.7)
                      110.4
                          1.2
                       (42.1)
                         (1.1)
                       (12.6)
2009
£m
                     (168.3)
                      122.0
                          0.8
                               
                       (45.5)
                         (1.1)
                          7.1
2010
£m
                     (166.3)
                      133.8
                          0.8
                               
                       (31.7)
                         (5.5)
                          3.2         
2011
£m
                     (194.1)
                      145.2
                          0.7
                       (48.2)
                          0.8
                          8.0
2012
£m
                      (191.9)
                       164.5
                           0.6
                                 
                        (26.8)
                               -
                         11.2
2013
£m
                      166.3
                          1.6
                          8.6
                        29.1
                          0.7
                         (8.2)
                         (0.9)
                         (3.1)
                       194.1
                           2.2
                           7.4
                          (5.9)
                           0.7
                          (8.7)
                           2.1
                       191.9
                               
                        34.0
                          0.7
                          1.6
                        11.6
                          0.4
                         (1.2)
                         (0.9)
                         (3.1)
                         43.1
                           1.1
                           1.5
                          (3.8)
                           0.4
                          (1.8)
                           2.1
                         42.6
Total
£m
Overseas
schemes
£m
                      132.3
                          0.9
                          7.0
                        17.5
                          0.3
                         (7.0)
                             -
                             -
                       151.0
                           1.1
                           5.9
                          (2.1)
                           0.3
                          (6.9)
                               -
                       149.3
UK
scheme
£m 89
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
25.   Post-retirement benefits continued
The Group expects to contribute approximately £7.3m to its defined benefit schemes in the year ending 31 August 2014.
The discount rate impacts on the retirement benefit obligations and the income statement for 2014. The effect of changes in this rate are shown
in the table below.
Additional (credit)/charge to income statement in 2014
(Decrease)/increase in retirement benefit obligations at 31 August 2013
26.   Share-based payments
The Group operates two equity-settled share-based payment schemes and previously operated a cash-settled scheme. 
a) Fenner PLC 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme
Share options were granted to certain employees within the Group. The exercise price of options granted is set at the market price of the shares
on the date of the grant. The vesting period is generally 3 years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of the
grant the options expire. Options can only be exercised upon satisfaction of performance criteria. This requires that the overall growth of the
Group’s earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and exceptional items over a consecutive three year period exceeds
the growth in the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by at least 9%. The last grant of shares under the Executive Share Option Scheme
was made in November 2004.
Details of movements in outstanding share options are as follows:
At 1 September 2011, at 1 September 2012 and at 31 August 2013
At 31 August 2013, 20,406 (2012: 20,406) options were exercisable.
The following share options were outstanding at 31 August 2013:
Dates exercisable
2007 to 2014
The remaining contractual life of outstanding share options at 31 August 2013 is 1.2 years.
b) Performance Share Plan
Conditional awards of shares are made to certain employees within the Group. The conditional award is made to each employee at the start of 
a three year performance period and is based on a percentage of the basic annual salary of each employee. The awards are subject to the
satisfaction of performance criteria.
The proportion of the conditional share awards that vest is based on a combination of the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) measure and an
earnings per share (“EPS”) measure. The EPS measure accounts for 33% of the final allocation on vesting and the TSR measure for 67%. The
EPS performance target is set against underlying EPS growth in the Company measured over the three years from the end of the financial year
preceding the year in which the award was made.
                        123.5                   20,406          
Weighted 
average 
share price 
pence
Options
number
                      123.5                    20,406
Option price
pence
Options
number
                          1.4
                        32.2
                                        
                         (1.4)
                       (25.6)
                               
                               
                               
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m 90
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
               2,358,319
                  422,515
                    27,360
                 (665,058)
                 (882,938)
                                           
               1,260,198
                   433,782
                     36,041
                   (77,673)
                 (426,445)
                                 
               1,225,903
                               
Shares
number
Details of movements in conditional awards under the Performance Share Plan are as follows:
At 1 September 2011
Conditional awards during the year
Dividend roll up awards applied
Final awards during the year
Lapsed during the year
At 1 September 2012
Conditional awards during the year
Dividend roll up awards applied
Forfeited during the year
Final awards during the year
At 31 August 2013
Dividend roll ups have been applied since 2008 in line with the PSP Rules. They accrue over the Plan Cycle and are added to the original
conditional award before the final award and allotment of shares is made.
The following conditional awards, including dividend roll up awards, were outstanding at 31 August 2013:
Date of conditional awards
17 November 2010
16 November 2011
14 November 2012
The fair value of awards made under the Performance Share Plan is measured using the Monte Carlo simulation approach. The following
assumptions were used for each set of conditional awards:
Share price at date of conditional awards
Fair value of shares awarded - TSR
Fair value of shares awarded - EPS
Expected volatility
Expected life
Risk free rate
Expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price for a three year period from the conditional 
award date.
An amount of £0.7m (2012: £0.9m) has been recognised as a charge within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement and a credit
to retained earnings within equity.
Further details of the Performance Share Plan can be found in the Board Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 48.
c) Shadow Performance Share Plan
Conditional awards of notional shares were made to certain employees within the Group between 2007 and 2009, the final conditional award
being on 19 November 2008. The rules and performance criteria were the same as the Performance Share Plan. Awards were settled in the form
of cash.
                    364.0p
                       183p
                       364p
                        38%
                   3 years
                       0.4%
                    370.0p
                       254p
                       370p
                        59%
                   3 years
                       0.3%
14 November
2012
16 November
2011
                    287.3p
                       199p
                       287p
                        63%
                   3 years
                       1.5%
17 November
2010
                0.2 years
                1.2 years
                2.2 years
                               
Remaining
contractual
life
                  413,560
                  404,532
                  407,811   
               1,225,903
Shares
number 91
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
                    337,000
                     (8,000)
                 (152,492)
                 (176,508)
                               -
Notional
shares
number
26.   Share-based payments continued
Details of movements in conditional awards under the Shadow Performance Share Plan are as follows:
At 1 September 2011
Forfeited during the year
Final awards during the year
Lapsed during the year
At 1 September 2012 and at 31 August 2013
There are no conditional awards outstanding at 31 August 2013.
An amount of £nil (2012: £0.1m) has been recognised as a charge within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. There are no
liabilities included within trade and other payables in the balance sheet (2012: £nil).
27.   Provisions
Movements in provisions are as follows:
At 1 September 2012
Provisions utilised during the year 
Acquisition of businesses (note 33)
Notional interest on the unwinding of discount
Notional finance charge on redemption liability
Exchange differences
At 31 August 2013
Current
Non-current
Provisions represent the best estimate of obligations at the balance sheet date. The property and environmental provision principally relates to
onerous leases. The provision for contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions relates to the estimated value of earn-out payments and
other obligations based on the future performance of acquired businesses or other non-performance related deferred payments. The redemption
liability on acquisitions relates to the obligation in respect of put and call options in relation to the purchase of non-controlling interests in
acquisitions. Where these amounts are material, they have been discounted at rates between 2.8% and 7.2%, representing a suitable pre-tax rate
based on borrowings that match the maturity of the consideration being discounted, to reflect the risks associated with future cash flows.
Provisions are expected to be utilised within four years in respect of property and environmental, three years in respect of contingent and
deferred consideration of acquisitions and four years in respect of redemption liability on acquisitions. 
                         38.2
                          (9.2)
                         17.2
                           2.0
                           0.6
                          (2.6)
                         46.2
                         14.8
                               -
                               -
                           1.1
                           0.6
                          (1.9)
                                 
                         14.6
Total
£m
Redemption 
liability on
acquisitions
£m
                         19.2
                          (8.4)
                         17.2
                           0.9
                               -
                          (0.7)
                         28.2
Contingent 
and deferred
consideration
on acquisitions
£m
                           4.2
                          (0.8)
                               -
                               -
                               -
                               -
                                 
                           3.4
Property and 
environmental
£m
                           8.9
                         37.3
                         46.2
                          9.4
                        28.8
                        38.2
2012
£m
2013
£m 92
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
28.   Share capital
Movements in share capital allotted, called up and fully paid are as follows:
At 1 September 2011
Issued in the year
At 1 September 2012
Issued in the year
At 31 August 2013
On 23 November 2012, 426,442 (2012: 665,058) ordinary shares of 25p were issued under the Group’s Performance Share Plan, amounting to
£0.1m (2012: £0.2m).
The Company has one class of ordinary shares of 25p which carry no right to fixed income.
29.   Reserves
Included within retained earnings is a reserve for the Company’s own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOP”) of
£0.1m (2012: £0.1m). The shares held by the ESOP may subsequently be awarded to employees under the Group’s share incentives schemes. 
At 31 August 2013, the ESOP held 114,177 (2012: 114,177) of the Company’s shares. The market value of these shares was £0.4m (2012: £0.4m).
The exchange reserve comprises foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
The hedging reserve comprises gains and losses on changes in the valuation of assets and liabilities designated as hedges. 
The merger reserve relates to merger relief given on the excess of the value of shares issued over the nominal value in accordance with section
612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Distributable reserves relate to amounts in the retained earnings reserve to the extent that profits are realised.
30.   Contingent liabilities 
In the normal course of business the Group has given guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of commercial transactions.
The Group is involved as defendant in a small number of potential and actual litigation cases in connection with its business, primarily in North
America. The directors believe that the likelihood of a material liability arising from these cases is remote.
31.   Operating lease commitments
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows:
Within one year
In the second to fifth years inclusive
After five years
Operating lease commitments principally comprise land and buildings in various operations across the Group, totalling £52.9m (2012: £53.3m).
Operating lease charges recognised in the income statement are shown in note 5.
                        48.2
                          0.2
                         48.4
                           0.1
                         48.5
           192,752,994
                  665,058
           193,418,052
                   426,442
           193,844,494
£m Number
                        10.4
                        22.3
                        27.2         
                        59.9
                         11.0
                         22.9
                         26.1
                         60.0
2012
£m
2013
£m 93
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
32.   Related party transactions
Key management personnel
Key management comprises the Group’s executive and non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee. Remuneration of key
management is as follows:
Short-term employee benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments
There were no other related party transactions to disclose.
33.   Acquisitions
On 1 September 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of American Industrial Plastics (“AIP”),
based in Florida, USA. AIP is a precision machining company with the ability to machine advanced polymers for application in the oil & gas and
medical markets as well as manufacturing performance precision components for a range of niche applications including aerospace. The initial
cash consideration was £16.7m with contingent deferred amounts estimated at £7.2m. This is based on an assessment of the estimated
profitability over a two year period and is discounted to net present value. The range of potential outcomes on an undiscounted basis is between
£nil and £9.4m.
On 3 September 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Norwegian Seals, which has operations in Norway and
the UK. Norwegian Seals manufactures and distributes performance-critical seals into the oil & gas market. This acquisition has increased
FAST’s presence in the North Sea market and is enabling Norwegian Seals to build its growing industry reputation and presence in new markets.
The initial cash consideration, net of debt acquired, was £11.8m with deferred amounts of £3.8m.
On 3 September 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Mandals, principally based in Norway with a smaller
facility in Sweden. Mandals is a leading manufacturer of innovative lay-flat and speciality hoses for use in demanding applications including in the
exploitation of shale gas reserves, where its products have important cost and logistical advantages over traditional pipes. The cash
consideration, net of debt acquired, was £11.6m.
On 30 November 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Australian Conveyor Engineering Pty Limited ("ACE"),
based in New South Wales, Australia. ACE specialises in supplying engineered conveyor solutions for the design, manufacture and installation of
high capacity conveyor systems for both surface and underground mining. The acquisition has enhanced Fenner Dunlop's service offering to
mining customers, initially in Australia, with the expectation of this being rolled out elsewhere in the future. The initial cash consideration, net of
debt acquired, was £14.0m with contingent deferred amounts estimated at £5.8m. This is based on an assessment of the estimated profitability
over a three year period and is discounted to net present value. The range of potential outcomes on an undiscounted basis is between £nil and
£12.6m.
                           3.7
                           0.5
                           1.4
                           5.6
                               
                          4.4
                          0.5
                          1.8         
                          6.7
2012
£m
2013
£m 94
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Details of the provisional aggregate assets and liabilities acquired, based on exchange rates at the dates of completion, are given below.
Property, plant and equipment
Goodwill
Intangible assets acquired:
- customer relationships
- non-compete agreements
- brands and trademarks
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank loans
Finance leases
Trade and other payables
Current taxation
Deferred taxation
Total net assets
Consideration:
Cash consideration
Contingent and deferred consideration held as provisions:
- new provisions in the year
- utilisation of provisions
The effect on the cash flow statement and net debt is as follows:
Cash consideration 
Cash and cash equivalents acquired
Cash paid per cash flow statement
Loans and finance leases acquired
Increase in net debt
Current year acquisitions have been presented in aggregate because, after review against a number of materiality measures, none of the
acquisitions are considered to be individually material.
Goodwill arising on acquisition principally represents the workforce and anticipated synergies gained through the acquisitions. Goodwill in
respect of the acquisition of AIP is deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill in respect of the acquisitions of Norwegian Seals, Mandals and ACE are
not deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of trade and other receivables acquired is £11.3m. None of the trade receivables have been impaired.
Where material, contingent and deferred consideration has been discounted using suitable risk free, pre-tax rates based on borrowings that
match the maturity of the consideration being discounted.
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities represent the best estimate of the fair values at the dates of acquisition. As permitted by IFRS 3
(Revised) ‘Business Combinations’, these provisional amounts can be amended for a period of up to 12 months following acquisition if
subsequent information becomes available which changes the estimates of fair values at the dates of acquisition. In respect of the current year
acquisitions, only assets and liabilities in respect of ACE are provisional since the 12 month period has been completed for the other acquisitions.
                          5.9
                        23.9
                               
                        35.9
                          5.2
                          2.1
                          6.7
                        11.3
                          5.2
                         (1.5)
                         (2.1)
                         (9.5)
                         (2.1)
                         (8.1)
                               
                        72.9
                        64.1
                               
                        17.2
                         (8.4)
                               
                        72.9
                        64.1
                         (5.2)
                        58.9
                          3.6
                        62.5
                             -
                          0.4
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -
                             -         
                             -         
                             -
                          0.4
                          8.4
                               
                          0.4
                         (8.4)
                          0.4
                          8.4
                             -
                          8.4
                             -
                          8.4
Provisional 
fair value 
£m
Total
Prior year 
acquisitions
Contingent
and deferred
consideration
£m
                          5.9
                        23.5
                               
                        35.9
                          5.2
                          2.1
                          6.7
                        11.3
                          5.2
                         (1.5)
                         (2.1)
                         (9.5)
                         (2.1)
                         (8.1)
                        72.5
                               
                        55.7
                               
                        16.8
                             -
                        72.5
                        55.7
                         (5.2)
                               
                        50.5
                          3.6
                        54.1
Provisional
fair value
£m
Current year
acquisitions 95
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
33.   Acquisitions continued
Contingent deferred consideration payable is re-assessed on all acquisitions at the balance sheet date. During the year, as a result of an increase
in estimated future profitability, the estimated deferred amounts payable on the Conveyor Services Corporation group of companies, which were
acquired on 1 October 2008, increased by £0.4m. Since this acquisition was made prior to the adoption of IFRS 3 (Revised), this resulted in an
increase in goodwill on acquisition.  
From the dates of acquisition, the current year acquisitions contributed £63.3m to Group revenue, £12.3m to Group operating profit before
amortisation of intangible assets acquired and £7.9m to Group operating profit.
If all of the acquisitions completed in the year had occurred on 1 September 2012, it is estimated that Group revenue would have been £827.8m,
Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired would have been £102.2m and Group operating profit would have been
£85.9m. These amounts have been calculated by adjusting the results of the acquired businesses to reflect the effect of the Group’s accounting
policies as if they had been in effect from 1 September 2012.
34.   Disposals
On 29 April 2013, the Group disposed of Svenska Brandslangfabriken AB, a non-core business in Sweden, which was acquired as part of the
Mandals businesses on 3 September 2012.
Details of the assets and liabilities disposed of are given below. 
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets acquired:
- customer relationships
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade and other payables
Current taxation
Deferred taxation
Total net assets disposed
Profit on disposal within operating profit per the income statement
The effect on the cash flow statement is as follows:
Cash received net of expenses
Cash and cash equivalents disposed
Cash received per cash flow statement
From the date of acquisition to the date of disposal, Svenska Brandslangfabriken AB contributed £2.4m to Group revenue, £0.8m to Group
operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and £0.7m to Group operating profit.
Svenska Brandslangfabriken AB did not represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, did not form part of a
single coordinated plan to dispose of such operations and was not acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Consequently, the disposal has not
been accounted for as a discontinued operation.
                               
                          0.4
                               
                          1.3
                          0.6
                          0.6
                          0.9
                         (0.5)
                         (0.2)
                         (0.4)
                          2.7
                          2.7
                          5.4
                          5.4
                         (0.9)
                          4.5
                               
                               
£m 96
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
35.   Principal subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 August 2013 were as follows:
Company
J H Fenner & Co Limited
Fenner International Limited
James Dawson & Son Limited
Hallite Seals International Limited
CDI Energy Products UK Limited
CDI Energy Products, Inc
American Industrial Plastics, LLC
Hallite Seals Americas, Inc 
Fenner Drives, Inc
Secant Medical, Inc
Xeridiem Medical Devices, Inc
Fenner Precision, LLC
Fenner Precision, Inc
Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Systems and Services, Inc
Fenner Dunlop Americas, Inc
Fenner Dunlop (Port Clinton), Inc
Fenner Dunlop (Toledo), LLC
Fenner Dunlop (Bracebridge), Inc
Hallite Seals (Canada) Limited
Conveyor Services, SA
Hallite Do Brasil - Technologia Em Vedações Limitada
Fenner Conveyor Belting (South Africa) (Pty) Limited
Fenner Dunlop Maroc SARL
Fenner Dunlop Australia Pty Limited
Fenner (Australia) Pty Limited
Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services Pty Limited
Belle Banne Conveyor Services Pty Limited
Leading Edge Conveyor Services Pty Limited
Statewide Belting Service Pty Limited
Fenner Dunlop Whyalla Limited
rEscan International Pty Limited
Australian Conveyor Engineering Pty Limited
Hallite Seals Australia Pty Limited
Fenner Conveyor Belting Private Limited
Hallite Sealing Solutions India Private Limited
Shanghai Fenner Conveyor Belting Co. Limited
Dawson Polymer Products (Shanghai) Co. Limited
Hallite Shanghai Co. Limited
Dunlop Conveyor Belting (Shanghai) Co. Limited
CDI Multiseals Pte Limited
Fenner Dunlop BV
Dunlop Service BV
Fenner Dunlop SL
Dichtelemente Hallite GmbH
Hallite Italia SRL
Fenner Dunlop Italia SRL
Dunlop Conveyor Belting Polska Sp. z o.o
Mandals AS
Mandals Technologies AS
CDI Energy Products AS
*Held directly by Fenner PLC
The above undertakings are engaged in manufacturing, distribution and servicing with the exception of Fenner International Limited which is an 
investment company. All subsidiary undertakings are consolidated within the Group financial statements. A full list of Group companies is filed
with the annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
                                        
                                        
                       *100
                       *100
                       *100
                       *100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100         
                         100
                         100         
                           66
                         100
                           75
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                           56
                           53
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                           85
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                         100
                                        
                                        
   United Kingdom
   United Kingdom
   United Kingdom
   United Kingdom
   United Kingdom
                        USA         
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA         
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA
                        USA
                  Canada
                  Canada
                      Chile
                     Brazil
          South Africa
                Morocco
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                Australia
                       India
                       India
                     China
                     China
                     China
                     China
              Singapore
          Netherlands
          Netherlands
                     Spain
               Germany
                        Italy
                        Italy
                   Poland
                  Norway
                  Norway
                  Norway         
% of issued
ordinary shares held
Country of
incorporation 97
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2013 which comprise the Company
balance sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 33 to 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in
writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition,
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 August 2013;
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
the part of the Board Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or 
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Board Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2013. 
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Hull
13 November 2013
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Fenner PLC 98
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Company balance sheet
at 31 August 2013
Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Investments
Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Share premium account 
Revaluation reserve
Merger reserve
Profit and loss account
Total shareholders' funds
The financial statements on pages 98 to 103 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
M S Abrahams R J Perry
Chairman Group Finance Director
Registered Number: 329377
                          3.6
                        77.7
                        81.3
                      154.5
                        16.0
                      170.5
                       (12.1)
                      158.4
                      239.7
                      239.7
                               
                        48.4
                        51.7
                          1.2
                        76.3
                        62.1
                      239.7
                                        
                                        
                                        
                             4
                             5
                                        
                               
                               
                               
                             6
                               
                               
                             7
                               
                               
                               
                             8
                             9
                             9
                             9
                             9
                           10
                           3.6
                         77.9
                                 
                         81.5
                       161.4
                           8.0
                       169.4
                        (13.9)
                       155.5
                       237.0
                       237.0
                         48.5
                         51.7
                           1.2
                         76.3
                         59.3
                                 
                       237.0
2012
£m
2013
£m Notes 99
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Company financial statements
1.     Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Company financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and
applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom and under the historical cost convention. 
In accordance with the exemptions allowed by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 8 ‘Related Party Transactions’ not to disclose related party transactions with other
members of Fenner PLC Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted for the year ended 31 August 2013, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date,
monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items measured at historical
cost are not retranslated. Exchange differences arising on the settlement and retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the profit and
loss account in the period.
Share-based payments
The Company operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees across the Fenner PLC Group. The cost of share-based payments 
is measured at fair value at the date of grant, excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. The cost is recognised in the profit and loss
account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with the corresponding amount credited to reserves, based on an estimate of the number
of shares that will eventually vest. The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed annually and the charge is adjusted accordingly in respect of non
market-based vesting conditions. The fair values are measured using the Binomial option-pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation approach.
Where the Company awards its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its
subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial statements, with the
corresponding credit being recognised directly in reserves.
Taxation
Taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable profit for the period using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the balance sheet date, together with any adjustments in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the profit and
loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or deductible or are taxable or deductible in other years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. It is determined
using the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse. Timing differences
are differences between taxable profits and results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax
assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised only
when it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing
differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding
agreement to sell the revalued asset. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Board are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by shareholders at the AGM. Interim
dividends are recognised when they are paid. 
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. In prior years,
certain freehold properties have been revalued by independent qualified professional valuers on the basis of open market value for their existing
use. As permitted by the transitional phase of FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’, these valuations have been frozen.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives most widely applied are as follows:
Freehold property 40 years
Investments
Investments are stated at cost or valuation less accumulated impairment losses. 100
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
2.     Auditors’ remuneration
There was no auditors' remuneration charged in the year (2012: £nil). Amounts borne by other Group undertakings are less than £0.1m
(2012: less than £0.1m).
3.     Dividends
Dividends paid or approved in the year
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 August 2012 of 3.5p (2011: 2.65p) per share
Final dividend for the year ended 31 August 2012 of 7.0p (2011: 5.35p) per share
Dividends neither paid nor approved in the year
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 August 2013 of 3.75p (2012: 3.5p) per share
Final dividend for the year ended 31 August 2013 of 7.5p (2012: 7.0p) per share
The interim dividend for the year ended 31 August 2013 was paid on 6 September 2013. The proposed final dividend for the year ended 
31 August 2013 is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM. Consequently, neither has been recognised as liabilities at 31 August 2013.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 7 March 2014 to shareholders on the register on 31 January 2014.
4.     Tangible assets
Cost or valuation
At 1 September 2012
Additions
Disposals
At 31 August 2013
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 September 2012
Charge for the year
Disposals
At 31 August 2013
Net book value
At 31 August 2013
At 31 August 2012
Cost or valuation comprises
Cost
Valuation:
- 1998
- 1999
The historical cost of tangible fixed assets is £4.3m (2012: £4.2m) with accumulated depreciation of £1.9m (2012: £1.8m).
Freehold property includes land at a cost or valuation of £1.6m (2012: £1.6m) which is not subject to depreciation.
                                          
                           4.9
                           0.2
                          (0.1)
                           5.0
                           1.3
                           0.1
                               -
                           1.4
                           3.6
                            3.6
                               
                          1.3
                          1.2
                          2.5
                          5.0
                                          
Freehold
property
£m
                           6.8
                         13.5
                         20.3
                           7.3
                         14.5
                         21.8
                          5.1
                        10.3
                        15.4
                          6.8
                        13.5
                               
                        20.3
2012
£m
2013
£m 101
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
                         48.4
                           0.1
                         48.5
                                 
                                 
                                 
           193,418,052
                   426,442
           193,844,494
                                 
                                 
                                 
£m Number
5.     Investments 
Cost
At 1 September 2012
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments
At 31 August 2013
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 September 2012 and at 31 August 2013
Net book value
At 31 August 2013
At 31 August 2012
The carrying value of investments is reviewed annually. Forecast cash flows are discounted using the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of
capital of 11.5%. Cash flows are projected for one year using appropriate annual growth rates.
The capital contribution relating to share-based payments relates to conditional awards granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiary
undertakings.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings can be found in note 35 to the Group financial statements.
6.     Debtors
Amounts owed by Group undertakings
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand and relate to an interest bearing loan to a subsidiary undertaking
at a floating rate based on the Group’s bank borrowing rate.
7.     Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Current taxation
Accruals and deferred income
Amounts owed to Group undertakings principally relates to amounts due to dormant subsidiary undertakings.
8.     Share capital
Movements in share capital allotted, called up and fully paid are as follows:
 
At 1 September 2012
Issued in the year
At 31 August 2013
On 23 November 2012, 426,442 (2012: 665,058) ordinary shares of 25p were issued under the Group’s Performance Share Plan, amounting to
£0.1m (2012: £0.2m). 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares of 25p which carry no right to fixed income.
                      154.5
                               
                               
                       161.4
                                 
                                 
2013
£m
                        12.0
                             -
                          0.1
                        12.1
                         13.1
                           0.4
                           0.4
                         13.9
2012
£m
2013
£m
                       168.1
                           0.2
                                 
                       168.3         
                         90.4
                                 
                         77.9
                         77.7
Subsidiary
undertakings
£m
2012
£m 102
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
9.     Reserves 
At 1 September 2012
Profit for the year
Dividends paid
Shares issued in the year
Share-based payments
Tax on share-based payments
At 31 August 2013
Included within the profit and loss account is a reserve for the Company’s own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOP”)
of £0.1m (2012: £0.1m). The shares held by the ESOP may subsequently be awarded to employees under the Group’s share incentives schemes.
At 31 August 2013, the ESOP held 114,177 (2012: 114,177) of the Company’s shares. The market value of these shares was £0.4m (2012: £0.4m).
The merger reserve relates to merger relief given on the excess of the value of shares issued over the nominal value in accordance with section
612 of the Companies Act 2006. 
10.   Reconciliation of movements in total shareholders’ funds
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders
Dividends paid
Share-based payments
Tax on share-based payments
Movement in total shareholders’ funds in the year
Total shareholders’ funds at 1 September 2012
Total shareholders’ funds at 31 August 2013
11.   Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed the borrowings of certain subsidiary undertakings. At 31 August 2013, these borrowings amounted to £217.6m
(2012: £203.9m).
12.   Share-based payments
The Company operates two equity-settled share-based payment schemes across the Fenner PLC Group. 
a) Fenner PLC 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme
Share options were granted to certain employees within the Group. The exercise price of options granted is set at the market price of the shares
on the date of the grant. The vesting period is generally 3 years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of the
grant the options expire. Options can only be exercised upon satisfaction of performance criteria. This requires that the overall growth of the
Group’s earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and exceptional items over a consecutive three year period exceeds
the growth in the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by at least 9%. The last grant of shares under the Executive Share Option Scheme
was made in November 2004.
Details of movements in outstanding share options are as follows:
At 1 September 2012 and at 31 August 2013
At 31 August 2013, 20,406 (2012: 20,406) options were exercisable.
   62.1
   16.5
  (20.3)
    (0.1)
     1.0
     0.1         
   59.3
Profit and
loss account
£m
   76.3
         -
         -
         -
         -
         -
   76.3
           
Merger 
reserve
£m
     1.2
         -
         -
         -
         -
         -         
           
     1.2
           
Revaluation
reserve
£m
   51.7
         -
         -
         -
         -
         -
   51.7
           
Share premium
account
£m
                               
                        25.3
                       (15.4)
                          0.9
                             -
                               
                        10.8
                      228.9
                      239.7
                                 
                         16.5
                        (20.3)
                           1.0
                           0.1
                          (2.7)
                       239.7
                       237.0
2012
£m
2013
£m
                        123.5                   20,406          
Weighted
average
exercise price
pence
Options
number 103
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
                    364.0p
                       183p
                       364p
                        38%
                   3 years
                       0.4%
                               
                    370.0p
                       254p
                       370p
                        59%
                   3 years
                       0.3%
14 November
2012
16 November
2011
                    287.3p
                       199p
                       287p
                        63%
                   3 years
                       1.5%
17 November
2010
                0.2 years
                1.2 years
                2.2 years
Remaining 
contractual
life
                  195,338
                  177,002
                  182,828
                  555,168
Shares
number
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
12.   Share-based payments continued
The following share options were outstanding at 31 August 2013:
Dates exercisable
2007 to 2014
The weighted average contractual life of outstanding share options at 31 August 2013 is 1.2 years.
b) Performance Share Plan
Conditional awards of shares are made to certain employees within the Group. The conditional award is made to each employee at the start 
of a three year performance period and is based on a percentage of the basic annual salary of each employee. The awards are subject to the
satisfaction of performance criteria.
The proportion of the conditional share awards that vest is based on a combination of the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) measure and
an earnings per share (“EPS”) measure. The EPS measure accounts for 33% of the final allocation on vesting and the TSR measure for 67%. The
EPS performance target is set against underlying EPS growth in the Company measured over the three years from the end of the financial year
preceding the year in which the award was made.
Details of movements in conditional awards under the Performance Share Plan, in respect of employees of the Company, are as follows:
At 1 September 2012
Conditional awards during the year
Dividend roll up awards applied
Final awards during the year
At 31 August 2013
Dividend roll ups have been applied since 2008 in line with the PSP Rules. They accrue over the Plan Cycle and are added to the original
conditional award before the final award and allotment of shares is made.
The following conditional awards, including dividend roll up awards, were outstanding at 31 August 2013:
Date of conditional awards
17 November 2010
16 November 2011
14 November 2012
The fair value of awards made under the Performance Share Plan is measured using the Monte Carlo simulation approach. The following
assumptions were used for each set of conditional awards:
Share price at date of conditional awards
Fair value of shares awarded - TSR
Fair value of shares awarded - EPS
Expected volatility 
Expected life
Risk free rate
Expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price for a three year period from the conditional 
award date.
Further details of the Performance Share Plan can be found in the Board Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 48.
                      123.5                    20,406
Option price
pence
Options
number
                 662,039
                   177,658
                     15,700
                 (300,229)
                                 
                   555,168
                               
Shares
number 104
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Five Year Summary of the Group
Revenue
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets 
acquired and exceptional items
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired
Exceptional items
Operating profit
Net finance costs
Profit before taxation
Taxation
Profit for the year
Earnings per share:
Underlying – Basic (before amortisation of intangible assets 
acquired, exceptional items and notional interest)
Basic
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders
Dividend per ordinary share*
Capital expenditure
Total equity
Net debt
Average number of employees (number)
*Dividend per ordinary share is stated in respect of the period to which the dividends relate. Under International Financial Reporting Standards,
this is not the same as the period in which the dividends are recognised in the financial statements.
2012
£m
2013
£m
                      499.4
                        41.3
                         (6.8)
                       (17.4)
                        17.1
                       (11.5)
                               
                          5.6
                         (1.0)
                          4.6
                        12.8p
                          2.6p
                        11.5
                          6.6p
                        34.3
                      195.5
                     (165.4)
                      3,874
2009
£m
                      552.5
                               
                        57.0
                         (7.7)
                             -
                        49.3
                       (12.1)
                               
                        37.2
                       (10.7)
                        26.5
                        17.9p
                        14.6p
                        11.5
                          7.2p
                        10.5
                      256.9
                     (110.4)
                               
                      3,938
2010
£m
                      718.3
                        91.4
                         (8.9)
                             -
                        82.5
                       (12.9)
                        69.6
                       (20.2)
                        49.4
                        28.1p
                        24.6p
                        13.8
                          8.0p
                        15.6
                      301.5
                     (101.8)
                      4,548
2011
£m
                      830.6
                      118.8
                       (11.2)
                             -
                      107.6
                       (19.0)
                        88.6
                       (26.2)
                        62.4
                               
                        36.1p
                        30.3p
                        15.4
                        10.5p
                        28.9
                      329.0
                       (97.7)
                      4,970
                       820.6
                       101.5
                        (16.0)
                               -
                                           
                         85.5
                        (17.6)
                         67.9
                        (18.7)
                         49.2
                         30.1p
                         23.5p
                                 
                         20.3
                       11.25p
                         27.3
                       361.9
                      (121.1)
                       5,272 105
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Fenner, Fenner Drives, Fenner Precision, Hallite, James Dawson, Apex Fenner, CDI, Secant, Xeridiem, B-LOC, Trantorque, Nu-T-Link, Tuff Breed, UsFlex
and PowerTwist Plus are Registered Trademarks of the Fenner Group.
AIP, Mandals, Prodesco, EGC, Solesis, ACE, ECS, Superman HVT and Ultraman are Trademarks of the Fenner Group.
Dunlop is used under licence.
The 77th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA, on
15 January 2014 at 10.30 am when the following business will be proposed:
Ordinary business
1    To receive the Directors’ Report and financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended 31 August 2013 together with the 
Independent Auditors’ Report.
2    To approve the Board Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report for 2013.
3    To declare a dividend.
4    To re-elect director.
5    To re-elect director.
6    To re-elect director.
7    To re-elect director.
8    To re-elect director.
9    To re-elect director.
10  To re-appoint the auditors. 
11  To authorise the directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration.
Special business
12  To authorise the directors to allot shares.
13  To empower the directors to allot shares for cash.
14  To authorise the Company to buy back its own shares.
15  To reduce the notice period required for general meetings.
Note
This is a summary of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and shareholders should refer to the accompanying document which contains
the full text of the Notice of Annual General Meeting together with an explanatory letter from the Chairman of the Company.
Advisors
Registrars
Capita Registrars, Huddersfield
Principal Solicitors
Addleshaw Goddard, Leeds
Ashurst, London
DLA Piper, Sheffield
Hunt & Hunt, Victoria, Australia
Rollits, Hull
Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick, Toledo, USA
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Hull
Brokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett, London
Citigroup, London
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC, Leeds
Lloyds Banking Group plc, Hull
HSBC Bank plc, Leeds 
Santander UK plc, London
Investment Bankers
N.M. Rothschild & Sons Limited, Leeds
Dividend Information
The table below details the amounts of interim and final dividends declared in respect of each of the last five years.
                                                                                          Interim Final Total
                                                                                          dividend dividend dividend
                                                                                          pence pence pence
                                                                                          
2013                                                            3.75 7.50* 11.25*
2012                                                            3.50 7.00 10.50
2011                                                            2.65 5.35 8.00
2010                                                            2.40 4.80 7.20
2009                                                            2.20 4.40 6.60
                                                                    * Proposed
Financial Calendar 
Annual General Meeting – 15 January 2014
Half Year End – 28 February 2014
Half Year Results – 23 April 2014
Year End – 31 August 2014
Full Year Results – 12 November 2014
Annual General Meeting Registered Office: Hesslewood Country Office Park, Ferriby Road, 
Hessle, East Yorkshire, HU13 0PW, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1482 626500   Fax: +44 (0)1482 626512   
www.fenner.com
Registered Number: 329377
