 Ferrexpo plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Positioned for growth
Ferrexpo plc
Registered Office:
2-4 King Street
London
SW1Y 6QL
www.ferrexpo.com
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ferrexpo is a resources company  
listed on the London Stock  
Exchange and a member of  
the FTSE 250 index.
Ferrexpo is headquartered in Switzerland,  
with its principal operating assets in Ukraine.  
The Company is primarily involved in the  
production and export of iron ore pellets,  
used in producing steel. 
We are committed to realising the potential  
of one of the largest iron ore resources in the  
world, and aim to be recognised as a leading  
global supplier of iron ore pellets, providing  
outstanding service to our customers and  
strong returns to our shareholders.
Company overview
IFC Activity and mission 
statements
01 Operational and financial 
highlights
02 Ferrexpo at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s 
review
12 Chief Executive Officer’s 
questions and answers
14 Board of Directors and 
Executive Committee
Business review
18 Overview
19 Market environment
20 Supply
21 Performance review
22 Business Improvement 
Programme
23 Growth projects
25  Marketing
28  Risks
30  Financial review
33 Key performance 
indicators
Sustainable development 
review
36 Commitment
37 Health and safety
40  Environment
43  Employees
44  Communities
Corporate governance
46 Corporate Governance 
report
51  Remuneration report
57  Directors’ report
62 Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
63 Independent auditors’ 
report
Financial statements
64 Accounts and notes
108 Glossary
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in nature, particularly relating to the business, strategy, investments, 
production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of the Ferrexpo Group  
and its current goals, assumptions and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results. 
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual 
results, performance or achievements of the Ferrexpo Group to be materially different from any future results, performance  
or achievements expressed in or implied by such forward looking statements. Past performance is no guide to future performance, and 
persons in need of advice should consult an independent financial adviser.  
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report. 
Except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, Ferrexpo undertakes no obligation to 
update or change any forward looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this document. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. Revenues (US$million)
563.4
547.3
698.2
2007 2006 2005
185.2
149.1
246.1
2007 2006 2005
EBITDA (US$million)
17.42
10.47
20.41
2007 2006 2005
EPS (US cents per share)
7,757
8,550
9,072
2007 2006 2005
Production volumes (Kt)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 01 Company overview
Operational and financial highlights
A year of growth
US$698m
revenue  up  by  28%
to  US$698m  65%
EBITDA  up  65%  to    US$246m
3.2 US cents
dividend  of  3.2  US  cents    per  Ordinary  Share
128
%
underlying  earnings
1
  up  by  128%  to  US$152m
9%
increase  of  9%  in  iron  ore  output  to  28.9  million  tonnes
19%
increase  in  production  of    high  quality  (65%  Fe)  pellets  from  Company’s  own  ore
63%
EBIT  for  the  year  up  by  63%  to  US$187m
1  See Glossary 3,151 miles
Ukraine
1,786 miles
1,105 miles
749 miles
1
2
3
4
5 6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
7
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 02 Company overview
Ferrexpo at a glance
Our business at a glance
Where we operate
Netherlands
Serbia
Germany
Romania
Italy
Bulgaria
Austria
Turkey
Czech Republic
Middle East
Poland
Russia
Slovakia
1
2
4
5 8
7 10
12
11 14
9 6
13
3 15
Our  operations  are  located  in  central  Ukraine,  giving  us  an  unmatched  competitive  advantage  in  terms  of  logistics,  making  us  an  iron  ore  producer  with  one  of  the  lowest  costs  of  supply  to  our  principal  customers.
Ferrexpo transports its product via rail    and barge to its customers in Eastern and  Central Europe, Turkey and to the Port of  Yuzhny on the Black Sea for onward  transport  by  ship  to  China,  Japan  and  India.  Superior logistics management is    the key to maximising the benefit of our  location on the doorstep of Europe. The  Group  owns  half  of  the  TIS-Ruda  private  bulk  commodity terminal at Yuzhny, the only one  of its kind in the former CIS, and    is in the process of building up its own fleet  of railway cars.
7
 
Markets served by rail           Markets served by ocean vessel          
 
Markets part served by ocean vessel Brovarskoye
Manuilovskoye
Kharchenkovskoye
Vasilevskoye
Galeschinskoye
Belanovskoye
Yeristovskoye
Lavrikovskoye
Gorishne-
Plavninskoye
Dnieper River
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 03 Company overview
Our operations
Ferrexpo’s  operations    are  situated  on  the  Kremenchug  Magnetic  Anomaly,  a  50km  long  iron  ore  deposit  in  Ukraine’s  Poltava  region,  making  it  the  largest  iron  ore  resource  in  Europe.  The  Group  holds  the  licences  to  explore  or  mine  the  entire  deposit,  with  its  current  operations  situated  at  the  southern  end  of  the  deposit,  adjacent  to  the  Dnieper  River.
Our operating asset
The GPL Mine
A single open-cut mine, 6km long   and 300m deep
Encompassing  two  deposits  –  Gorishne-
Plavninskoye and Lavrikovskoye
Produced 29mt of iron ore in 2007,   equating to 9.1mt of pellets
Announced expansion to   approximately  32mtpa  of  iron  ore  by  late  2010, and an extension of the mine    life to at least 2035 in November 2007
1.6bt of JORC-classified   resource remaining (magnetite,   c.30% Fe content)
Processing and pelletising capacity   of over 12mtpa
•
•
•
•
•
Further potential
Four large northern deposits
 Approximately 14bt of magnetitic ore  reserves, classified under the Soviet GKZ  code
•
•
Our projects
Three  large,  well-explored  deposits
Galeschinskoye
Mine concept studies currently under way
 325mt high-grade haematite deposit  (c.60% Fe content) within a larger  magnetite deposit
Belanovskoye
Pre-feasibility study currently under way
 1.6bt of JORC-classified resource  (magnetite, c.30% Fe content)
 Large open-cut mine planned –  c.45mtpa of iron ore
 Plan  includes  dedicated  new  processing  and pelletising facilities
Yeristovskoye
Our most advanced growth project.
Detailed feasibility study under way
Over  800mt  of  JORC-classified  resource  (magnetite, c.30% Fe content)
 Open-cut  mine  planned  –  approximately  27mtpa of iron ore
 Plan  includes  dedicated  new  processing  and pelletising capacity
 US$47m of capex committed to  draglines in 2007
 Pre-stripping commences in 2008
 First ore in 2011
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 04
Performance in 2007
Notwithstanding the highest priority we
attach to the health and safety of our
people, we incurred a fatal injury at our
Poltava mine in November. Regrettably, in
2008, we have suffered a further two fatal
accidents at this site. These tragedies are
totally unacceptable and have provided a
rallying point for us to redouble our efforts
in continuing to introduce best practice in
health and safety management. We have
now appointed Du Pont Safety Resources  which  has  an  outstanding  record  of  success  in assisting companies to achieve a ‘zero  harm’ objective.
We increased production from our existing
mine for the sixth consecutive year. The
Group produced 9.1mt of iron ore pellets,
an increase of 6% compared to 2006.
Pellet production from our own produced
ore rose from 8.1mt in 2006 to 8.8mt in
2007, and we produced 19% more high
quality 65% Fe pellets from our own ore.
The increases in volume and product
quality resulted directly from continued
improvements in operating efficiency and
capital investment. The improvement in
production output and quality, along with
higher achieved sales prices resulting from
the increasingly favourable global iron ore
market and a relentless focus on operating
costs, enabled us to achieve significant
growth in both revenues and profits during
2007.
Revenues for 2007 were up 27.6% at  US$698.2m (2006: US$547.3m). Pre-tax profit  increased by 99% to US$160.8m (2006:  US$80.7m). Group EBITDA for the period  increased by 65% to US$246.1m (2006:  US$149.1m).
Market environment
The Group achieved an average price of
US$72.3 per tonne of pellets sold in 2007, a
17% increase over the average achieved
price  in  the  previous  year  (2006:  US$61.8  per  tonne). International iron ore benchmark  price  increases  in  2007  had  a  positive  effect  on  a  number  of  our  pellet  contracts.  We  were  successful in our continued efforts to  increase prices to appropriate levels on a  delivered,  ‘value  in  use’  basis  which  resulted  in  Group  average  price  outcomes  in  line  with  the international
benchmark. At year end, the Group was
selling approximately 85% of its output to
established clients on the basis of long
term supply agreements.
Globally, iron ore is currently in short
supply, driven by demand from developing
nations, in particular China and India, and
in our core Eastern European markets,
where per capita steel consumption
continues to grow in line with their strong
economic growth. This demand and supply
dynamic has led to the increases in
international benchmark prices outlined
above, and we anticipate further uplifts to
our product prices in the current year on
the back of continued demand growth. Our
customers forsee continuing solid demand
for steel in 2008.
The global steel industry has also been
subject to increased environmental limits
on sinter plant construction, a declining
global supply of high quality lump iron ore
and heightened productivity targets in steel
making. These factors are likely to result in
sustained higher consumption ratios of
pellets versus other forms of iron ore feed.
Chairman’s statement
An eventful and successful year
I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Ferrexpo  has  achieved  strong  operational  and  financial  performance  in  its  first  financial  reporting  period  as  a  publicly  listed  company.  The  Group  has  made  considerable  progress  towards  its   stated  objective  of  becoming  a  world-class  resources  company.  We  are  committed  to  best  practice  in  our  operations,  marketing  and  corporate  governance,  and  we  are  developing  a  significant  and  realistic  growth  programme.
2007 year in review
Company overview Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
Operations
In 2007 Ferrexpo retained its leading
position as the largest exporter of iron ore
pellets from the Ukraine. Overall pellet
production increased by 6% compared
with the previous year.
Market conditions made it uneconomical to  purchase iron ore concentrate from third  parties to take advantage of our excess  pelletising capacity. The increase in our  production was therefore accomplished  using almost entirely our own produced  concentrate, and was accompanied by a  further increase in the proportion of high  grade pellet production with an iron content  above 65%.
Our  cash  costs  of  production  for  2007  were
US$31.8 per tonne of pellets, as against
US$29.3 per tonne in 2006. This 8.6%
increase in production costs compares
favourably against Ukrainian inflation, which
saw a Producer Price Index increase of
23.3% for 2007. Ferrexpo maintained flat
nominal costs of production in 2005, 2006
and the first half of 2007, through
aggressive cost management and the
implementation of a Business Improvement
Programme at our Poltava mine. We are
continuing to successfully control costs.
High Ukrainian cost inflation in the second
half of the year meant we were not able to
achieve  the  material  real  reductions  in  costs
that we delivered in prior periods. This is
likely to remain a factor in Ukraine in the
short term and will remain a feature of the
industry worldwide in the medium term.
Marketing
We have had a very successful year in the
crucial areas of marketing and distribution,
having extended one of our largest long
term contracts to 2015, and initiated a
major new long term supply agreement in
Ukraine.
Logistics
To ensure access to world markets, the
TIS-Ruda ocean-vessel port facility was
commissioned in May 2007 and formally
recognised by the Port of Yuzhny in
October 2007. Ferrexpo owns 49% of TIS-
Ruda, the first privately owned dry bulk
commodity terminal in the former CIS, and
has access to its 5mtpa export capacity. To
enhance the reliability of supply, we are
also in the process of procuring up to 550
railcars for use on the state railway
infrastructure.
We continue to develop the Group’s  logistical capabilities throughout the  delivery chain to allow further expansion of  our global customer base in anticipation of  our growing production.
Investing activities
Operating cash flow for 2007 was
US$188.8m, an increase of 176% over the
previous year (2006: US$68.3m). Together  with the proceeds from our Listing in June,  this strong cash flow has allowed us to  initiate  investment  in  our  accelerated  growth  strategy. The Group invested US$104.4m in  continuing to develop and upgrade our  existing  operations  in  2007,  and  in  November  the Board committed a further US$158m in  development capital
expenditure for this purpose.
In addition to the expansion and
optimisation of the existing mine, we are
focusing our investment activities primarily
on our major growth projects. The Board
has approved a new accelerated business
plan which envisages the parallel
development of several of the Group’s
major expansion projects. The first of these
is Yeristovskoye, for which the Board
committed US$47m in September 2007 for
new draglines. This equipment will be used
to commence stripping operations at this  deposit in 2008.
May 2007
Ferrexpo issues a Notice  
of Intention to Float on the 
Regulatory News Service of  
the London Stock Exchange  
in anticipation of its impending 
listing.
June 2007
The Initial Public Offering of 
Ferrexpo plc on the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange was 
successfully priced at  
140p per share, raising a total of 
US$424 million, approximately half 
of which were primary proceeds.
July 2007
Ferrexpo announces the extension 
of its long term supply contract with 
VoestAlpine AG,  
its largest customer, to 2015.
September 2007
Ferrexpo included in the  
FTSE 250 index.
September 2007
Ferrexpo announces the first capital 
expenditure commitment on the 
Yeristovskoye mine development, 
the first of its  
major growth projects, investing 
US$47 million on six draglines.
September 2007
Ferrexpo announces its Interim 
Results for the first half of 2007, 
which reflected growth in 
production and achieved prices, and 
tight cost control.
November 2007
Ferrexpo announces the 
commitment of US$158 million to 
expand its existing mine and extend 
its productive life to 2032, a highly 
capital efficient project that will 
result in an approximately 15% 
uplift in production from existing 
operations by 2011.
December 2007
Ferrexpo announces the 
appointment of Chris Mawe as  
its Chief Financial Officer and Oliver 
Baring as its Senior Non-executive 
Director, together with other 
management role changes 
associated with its accelerated 
growth plans.
Company overview
The Group has made 
considerable progress towards 
its stated objective of 
becoming a world - class 
resources company. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06
Management and people
We continued to strengthen our
management and operational capability.
We are pleased to welcome to the Board
Chris Mawe (previously Finance Director of
UK Coal plc) as Chief Financial Officer and
Oliver Baring (Chairman of Mwana Africa
plc) as Senior Independent Non-executive
Director.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank
all of our management and staff, both at
our operations and elsewhere in the Group,
for their hard work and commitment
throughout the year. The significant
progress which the Group has made in
2007 would not have been possible without
their enthusiasm and dedication.
Corporate governance and social
responsibility
I am pleased to report that the Group has
achieved substantial compliance with the
UK Combined Code on Corporate
Governance within six months of its listing
on the London Stock Exchange, and we
continue to make further progress in line
with best practice. The Board remains
firmly committed to delivering high
standards of corporate governance in
the future.
The Board has constituted a Corporate
Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Committee,
chaired by our Chief Executive, to monitor
the management of the Group’s health,
safety, environmental and community
programmes. CSR remains a priority and
we are continuing to develop further
initiatives to institutionalise safety
conscious behaviour, actively engage with
local communities and to minimise our
impact on the environment.
Outlook
The current year has started well with
substantial increases in global iron ore
prices being announced. This has created
a very positive environment for the annual
price negotiations with our major
customers and we expect the global
pricing trend to flow through to our new
contract prices from 1 April 2008.
Production continues to increase
incrementally as our improvement
programmes come into effect. Ukrainian
cost inflation was high in 2007 and is set to
continue in 2008, with the result that we do
face cost increases in the coming year,
particularly with regard to State regulated
cost inputs. The Directors believe that the
Group will continue to grow its revenues
and profits in 2008.
Chairman’s statement continued
Company overview
Our key aim
is to realise the potential    of our unique resource  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07
Dividend
The Directors intend to pursue a dividend
policy consistent with the Group’s growth
profile. This will reflect the investment the
Group is making to drive future growth and
the amount of cash generated by the
existing operations, while maintaining a
prudent level of dividend cover. The
Directors recommend a dividend in respect
of profits generated for the Ferrexpo Group
in  2007  of  3.2  US  cents  per  Ordinary  Share  for  payment  on  19  May  2008  to  shareholders  on  the register at the close of business on 18  April 2008. The dividend will be paid in UK  pounds sterling.
Michael Abrahams CBE DL
Chairman
Company overview
Production continues  
to increase incrementally as 
our improvement 
programmes come  
into effect. 185.2
149.1
246.1
2007 2006 2005
EBITDA (US$million)
65%
EBITDA  up  65%  to  US$246.1m
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08
At  the  start  of  the  year,  we  set  out  to  achieve  improvements in operating efficiency,  product quality and production growth. In  marketing,  we  aimed  to  become  the  iron  ore  supplier of choice in our key markets. We  have  succeeded  in  all  these  endeavours,  with  substantial  progress  being  made  at  both  our  existing operations and with our growth  projects.  We hold the exclusive licences to a world  class iron ore resource, uniquely positioned  close to our core markets and operating    in a global market environment that is  increasingly positive for our business.  Among the world’s iron ore producers,    we are very favourably positioned to take  advantage of the opportunities these  circumstances present and have made  significant progress in developing the    range of capabilities required to do so.
Our strategy is to maximise the value    of the Group through the accelerated  commercialisation of our extensive  undeveloped ore deposits, whilst ensuring  continuous production growth and cost  competitiveness in our existing operations.  The Board continues to refine and develop  this strategy, with an overarching focus on  management’s priorities to establish the  operational, financial and risk management  capabilities required for aggressive delivery  on our project pipeline.  Existing operations
In  2007,  the  goals  for  our  existing  operations  at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining (‘FPM’) centred  on continuing the demonstrated trend of  improvements across all areas of CSR and  especially  safety,  and  in  operating  efficiency,  product quality and production growth.
Considerable progress has been made    in establishing health, safety and  environmental  management  (‘HSE’)  systems  at FPM and a culture of continuous  improvement  in  HSE  performance  is  evident.  Sadly,  we  suffered  a  fatality  during  2007  and  a further two    in 2008 that highlighted the urgent need    for us to introduce best practice in  behavioural  safety.  We  have  now  secured  the  services  of  Du  Pont  Safety  Resources  which  has an outstanding record of success in  assisting  companies  to  move  towards  a  ‘zero  harm’ objective.  We succeeded in increasing the iron ore  output from our existing Gorishne –  Plavninskoye Lavrikovskoye (‘GPL ’) mine    by 9% and achieved a 6% increase in total  pellet output. This was accomplished with  only negligible production of pellets from  purchased concentrate, the margins being  prohibitively low. Production of our higher  quality  65%  Fe  pellets  from  our  own  ore  rose  by  19%.  Notwithstanding  the  increased  yield  of higher quality pellets    and the local inflationary environment, we  succeeded in containing increases in unit  production costs to some 15 percentage  points  below  Ukrainian  Producer  Price  Index  for 2007.  Chief Executive Officer’s review
Positioned for accelerated growth
Our  excellent  operational  and  financial  performance    in  2007  has  established  a  strong  foundation  for    the  accelerated  growth  plans  of  the  Group.  Our strategy explained
The Group’s principal aim is to enhance  
overall value for its shareholders, through  
a strategy of:
Company overview
EBITDA Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09
Growth projects
At the time of our Listing, we informed    the market that we planned to double our  production  by  2014.  We  proposed  to  do  this  by commissioning a second open-cut mine  immediately  to  the  north  of  our  existing  GPL  mine,  on  the  Yeristovskoye  deposit.  We  now  believe that further accelerated  development of the deposits    to the north of the GPL mine is feasible.  Studies  under  way  on  the  Yeristovskoye  and  Belanovskoye  deposits  indicate  that  they  can  be developed essentially in parallel. Work is  also proceeding on plans to develop  Galeschinskoye, the deposit to the north of  Belanovskoye.  Given  the  positive  conditions  prevailing in the global iron ore market and  our enhanced operational and project  execution  capability,  this  acceleration  will  be  of great benefit to Ferrexpo.  We are now contemplating a fourfold  increase  in  ore  production  within  the  next  10  years. We are planning to accelerate the  development of the Yeristovskoye mine by  one year, and then to develop a mine at    the Belanovskoye deposit soon thereafter.  First  ore  from  the  Yeristovskoye  mine  is  now  expected in 2011, with infrastructural and  site preparation operations already under  way. Six new draglines were ordered in  September to assist in the stripping    of Yeristovskoye at a cost of US$47m.    The Yeristovskoye mine is currently in  detailed feasibility study, and the Board  expects to consider final investment  commitment to the entire project in the  second half of 2008. Belanovskoye is  currently at the pre-feasibility study stage,  and development option studies for the  Galeschinskoye  deposit  are  now  in  progress.
We carried out extensive engineering    test work on the GPL mine in 2007, in    the course of fulfilling our commitment    to optimising our existing facilities. This    work revealed the potential to expand    and improve the mine beyond what was  thought feasible at the time of our Listing.    It culminated in our announcement in  November 2007 of the commencement    of a US$158m project to expand iron    ore production at the GPL mine to  approximately 32mtpa by late 2010 and    to extend the life of the mine at these  production levels to at least 2035. This  additional ore production will enable the  Group  to  take  advantage  of  currently  under-
utilised  processing  capacity  to  increase  high  quality pellet production    by approximately 15%, or 1.3mtpa. This  project will deliver meaningful and capital-
efficient growth as we continue to pursue  opportunities for extracting greater value  from our current operations.  We are well advanced with the engineering  of upgrades to the beneficiation and  pelletising plants at FPM that will enable    us to continue to improve product quality,  further reduce real unit operating costs and  ensure that we have a robust capability to  process the expanded production of ore  from the GPL pit for its now extended  economic life.
We  have  also  committed  to  an  intensification  of  our  Business  Improvement  Programme  at  FPM  to  accelerate  the  shift  towards  best-in-
class operational performance.
1
Increasing production of iron  
ore pellets by optimising and 
expanding the extraction  
of iron ore from its current  
open-cut mine on the  
Gorishne-Plavninskoye and 
Lavrikovskoye deposits.
2
Implementing best practice  
mine and facilities operations  
at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining (‘FPM’), 
enhancing efficiency  
and reducing operating costs.
3
Deriving substantial value from its 
significant unexploited iron ore 
reserves through the accelerated 
development of the nearby 
Yeristovskoye, Belanovskoye and 
Galeschinskoye deposits.
4
Leveraging its relationships  
with its existing global customer 
base to grow market share and 
support the Group’s increased 
production profile.
5
Increasing sales into growing 
markets for iron ore and extracting 
value through the Group’s 
advantageous logistical position 
and its enhanced operational 
capability.
6
Continuing to develop the Group’s 
logistical capabilities to match its 
growing production.
7
Managing the Group’s cost  
base by reducing its exposure  
to energy market volatility and 
other cost fluctuations.
8
Upgrading existing assets and 
procuring additional capital 
equipment to achieve target 
production levels in excess of 
32mtpa of pellets by 2018.
Company overview
Our key strategy
accelerate development    of reserves
grow production
expand customer base Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10
We  have  made  significant  progress  in  developing  the  capability  to  execute  these  expansion  projects.  A  new  operating  organisation,  separate  from  FPM,  is  being  established  to  develop  and  ultimately  operate  the  new  assets  and  key  senior  managers  have  been  appointed.  This  will  facilitate  the  immediate  introduction  of  best  practice  into  these  assets.  We  are  developing  our  mining  alliance  with  DTP  Terrasement  S.A.  (France)  (‘DTP’)  and  project  management  alliance  with  Worley  Parsons  Europe  Limited,  and  these  are  gathering  momentum  and  have  been  instrumental  in  enabling  us  to  aggressively  pursue  these  growth  projects  with  confidence.  Our growth projects are brownfield  expansions of our existing business and    as such represent substantially lower risk  additions  of  new  iron  ore  capacity  than  many  of the iron ore projects that have been  announced worldwide.  We  are  confident  in  our  capacity  to  fund  and  execute our growth plans from our own  resources. However, we are actively  discussing the mutual benefits of  investments in our growth assets with a  range of strategic investors to provide the  additional funding and execution capability  that  will  be  required  if  we  are  to  progress  our  plans  as  aggressively  as  possible  in  order  to  take advantage of the extremely favourable  outlook for our products.
Marketing
Our marketing strategy aims to develop a  portfolio of customers in a range of markets  that will enable us to achieve full value for  our products and provide sales volume  growth  commensurate  with  the  pace of  development  of  our  new  producing  assets.
We seek to maximise the proportion of our  production sold on long term contracts and  to strengthen our relationships with our key  customers, while also participating in a low  level of short term sales. We have had a  successful  2007,  with  a  major  new  long  term  contract  in  Ukraine,  as  well  as  the  extension  of  our  contract  with  VoestAlpine  AG  to  2015  and the extension of our contracts in  Slovakia and Serbia. At the end of 2007,  approximately 85% of our sales were made  under  long  term  supply  agreements,  most  of  which are directly or indirectly linked to  benchmark prices.
Sales  in  2007  reached  9,261kt  and  included  growth  in  our  highest  return  core  markets  of  Eastern Europe and Ukraine.    We  were  successful  in  establishing  long  term  business into Turkey, resuming sales to Russia  and we delivered our first trial cargo to  Japan.
Logistics
Significant progress was made in 2007.    We are committed to managing the fullest  extent of our delivery chain to assure our  customer service, to maximise overall    sales  margins  and  to  ensure  that  our  growth  plans are not frustrated by logistics  constraints. This will be achieved by  developing world class logistics  management as an integral function of our  sales and marketing activities. Selected  investments in barge, rail and port facilities  will also be required to overcome logistics  bottlenecks in Ukraine and Eastern    Europe and these are being contemplated  with key partners.  Our  investment  in  the  TIS-Ruda  ocean  vessel  terminal provides us with access    Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Company overview Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
to a private port on the Black Sea with    a capacity of 5mtpa. This facility has  significant  expansion  potential  and  provides  the base from which we can grow our  seaborne  trade  as  we  expand  our  producing  assets.  We  also  acquired  110  rail  cars  in  2007,  with a further 440 planned for delivery in  2008.  This  will  allow  us  to  benefit  from  lower  rail tariffs afforded to users of own rolling  stock  and  to  enhance  reliability.  We  also  have  major rail and water way studies under way  in Ukraine to determine future needs.
Market outlook
We  believe  that  the  existing  positive  market  environment  for  our  business  is  likely  to  continue  for  the  next  two  years  and  beyond.  This  is  fundamentally  due  to  sustained  strong  demand  for  steel  products  and  steel-making  raw  materials  not  only  in  the  developing  economies  of  China  and  India,  but  also  in  Eastern  Europe,  the  former  CIS  and  several  other  parts  of  the  world.  Strong  iron  ore  pricing  is  being  underpinned  by  a  slow  supply  response  from  the  mining  industry,  attributable  to  the  acute  execution  difficulties  being  experienced  by  many  of  the  projects  that  have  been  launched  to  meet  the  demand  surge,  the  need  to  develop  lower  quality  ore  bodies  and  massive  infrastructure  investments  required  for  many  of  the  new  greenfield  developments.  From a cost perspective, the industry has  witnessed  fundamental  structural  changes  in  the past year. The production cost of    the marginal tonne of iron ore has risen  substantially  and,  in  the  view  of  many  market  commentators,  permanently.  We  believe  that  this  rebasing  of  production  costs  provides  a  new floor for iron ore prices, below which  they are unlikely to fall.
People
Our strong performance in 2007 is a direct  result of the quality and dedication of our  people  and  their  enthusiastic  support  for  the  major change programmes that are now  under  way  across  all  facets  of  our  business.  We are committed to building the additional  capability required to implement our  aggressive growth plans in line with best  practice while containing costs and this is a  critical priority for our executive team. I  would like to thank all our employees and  our key partners for their ongoing support  and contribution.  Mike Oppenheimer
Chief Executive Officer
Company overview Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12
Q. Having previously worked with large  international diversified resources  companies with operations in many  countries, what is your impression of doing  business in Ukraine?
A. Ukraine compares favourably to many    of  the  places  I  have  worked  in  the  past.  Being  a developing economy does of course bring  with it many challenges,    but few that are unusual or unexpected.    It is worth remembering that many of the  world’s mines are in developing countries  and  Ukraine  is  considerably  more  developed  than many of these, especially as far as  infrastructure, engineering and  manufacturing  are concerned, sectors critical  to successful resource development. Our  Ukrainian employees are well educated and  trained and they have embraced our  programmes for establishing best practice  with enthusiasm.
The  media  has  made  much  of  the  political  instability  in  Ukraine  over  the  past  few  years,  but  this  seems  to  reflect  the  commitment  of  the  Ukrainian  people  to    a  strong  democratic  process.  During  my    time  with  our  Company,  this  so-called  instability  has  had  little  effect  on  our  existing  business,  but  it  has  meant  that  Ukraine  has  not  had  the  opportunity  to  develop  a  unified  and  transparent  economic  policy  for  export  oriented  resources  industries.  We  have  concerns  with  the  recent  above-inflation  increases  in  state-regulated  costs  such    as  electricity  and  rail  tariffs  and  we    look  forward  to  engaging  the  current  government  on  the  integrated  set  of  issues  that  relate  to  Ukraine’s  attractiveness  for  major  resources  industry  investment.  Q. As a single commodity ‘pure play’  company, Ferrexpo is relatively unusual    in the London market. What are the  advantages of this?
A. Investors frequently prefer to construct  their own portfolios, rather than hold  companies that are already diversified. For  investors seeking to balance their mining  company portfolios, Ferrexpo represents    a very clear exposure to iron ore.  Operationally, our stated iron ore growth  strategy  allows  us  to  focus  our  scarce  human  and capital resources on the business we  know best.
Q. What are your competitive advantages  over other iron ore producers? How do you  compete  with  the  big  producers,  such  as  the  Brazilians?
A.  Our  principal  competitive  advantages  are  our location and the size of our iron ore  resource. Most of our principal customers are  in Central and Eastern Europe and Ukraine.  These customers operate steel mills that  were constructed in many cases by the  former Soviet Union to use Ferrexpo pellets  and  extensive  infrastructure  was  established  to deliver these to the customers’ operating  sites.  For  the  majority  of  these  customers,  we  have  one  of  the  lowest  costs  of  supply  of  any  iron  ore  producer.  We  are  also  close  to  Turkey   and  the  Middle  East,  both  of  which  have  the  potential  to  become  attractive  markets  for  us  in  the  future.  The  Brazilian  producers  do  have  lower cash costs of production than we do,  principally due to the higher grades of their  resources. However, their shipping distances  to our major customers are substantially  greater than ours and ocean and rail freight  charges are a significant portion of the total  cost of pellet supply, thus ensuring that our  supply costs are highly competitive within  the markets we serve. We have also been  able to enhance our product quality and  supply reliability and are now regarded as a  preferred supplier by many of our major  customers.  Our  vast  undeveloped  resources  provide the base from which we can  aggressively grow our competitively priced  supply and we have demonstrated our  commitment to the investments required,  further enhancing our offering to our major  customers. We have developed our own  export  logistics  via  the  Black  Sea  and  supply  competitively into the strongly growing  markets of Asia.  Q. What is the outlook for iron ore pricing?  Mike Oppenheimer answers  
some of your questions
Q &A
Chief Executive Officer’s questions and answers
Company overview
Our principal competitive 
advantages are our location 
and the size of  
our iron ore resource. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
Q. Costs are rising across the mining industry.  How has Ferrexpo managed    to keep them down?
A.  Understandably,  our  operations  have  not  historically  had  the  strong  focus  on  costs  and  profitability that has now become the norm  worldwide. Two years ago    we instituted a ‘Business Improvement  Programme’, designed to introduce    best practice in our operations, thereby  increasing efficiency and productivity.  Results  achieved  to  date  have  been  notable.  We were able to keep costs flat    in nominal terms (implying significant real  reductions) for 2005, 2006 and the first half  of  2007.  This  success  is  partly  attributable  to  the fact that there were many areas where  substantial improvement could be achieved  very  quickly  by  implementing  practices  used  at leading mining operations around the  world. Ferrexpo is facing the same kind of  inflationary  cost  pressures  that  the  rest  of  the  industry  is  seeing.  Our  costs  rose  by  13.1%  in  the  second  half  of  2007,  and  are  likely  to  rise  again in 2008    as we face increasing cost inflation in  Ukraine.  We  have  plans  to  mitigate  these  cost  increases, however, and aggressive cost  management will remain a key focus of  management.
Q. How has Ferrexpo changed and  developed in the period since the Listing?
A. Compared with a year or two ago,  Ferrexpo is a completely transformed  Company. Preparation for Listing  necessitated many changes to the way the  business was run, in terms of governance,  transparency, operational efficiency, health  and safety, and financial management, to  name but a few. FPM is a world class  resource, and focus was put on introducing  world class management processes to  complement it. By the time of the Listing    in June, the turnaround process was well  under  way,  and  it  has  continued  in  leaps  and  bounds since then. The fact that we have  produced more, extended our plans for  expansion and delivered real term  reductions in costs is testament to that  change. Our Board has also developed    and  in  December  we  welcomed  Christopher  Mawe to the role of Chief Financial Officer  and  Oliver  Baring  as  our  Senior  Independent  Director. Ferrexpo    is rapidly becoming an organisation with    best practice operations and corporate  governance.  Q. What are the key benefits of a    London listing?
A. Our London Listing provides us with  access to one of the world’s largest capital  markets and the world financial centre for  the mining industry. Beyond that, it has  provided enormous benefits in terms of  transparency and credibility. The fact that  the Group has undergone the due diligence  process and been subjected to the  regulatory and investor scrutiny necessary  for a listing on the Main Market of the LSE  has  opened  many  doors  for  us.  Our  inclusion  in the FTSE 250 index in September further  enhanced our credibility in the eyes of  investors. Ferrexpo’s negotiations with  potential partners and even customers with  whom we are now dealing have benefited  enormously from the fact that we are listed.  The London Listing not only provided new  funds for the growth of our business but  continues to play a much wider role in  making all of our strategic plans possible.
Q.  What  is  your  ambition  for  the  Group,  and  where do you see Ferrexpo in five years’  time?
A. My ambition for the Group is to see    it become the primary iron ore supplier    in Europe and Ukraine, and a significant  player in the industry worldwide. We have  made great strides towards best practice,  and we are now ready to launch the  accelerated  development  of  our  vast  iron  ore  resource. In five years’ time, I expect  Ferrexpo will be halfway to becoming a    32mt per annum iron ore pellet producer.
  A. The current environment for iron ore    is  unprecedented.  Our  view  is  that  prices  will  continue to strengthen for at least the next  two  years,  as  the  world’s  iron  ore  producers  struggle  to  bring  more  capacity  on  stream  to  meet the growing demand from China and  other developing nations. The industry has  suffered under-investment in the past, and  what  we  are  now  seeing  is  market  tightness  while this state of affairs    is addressed.  Q.  How  is  the  market  for  iron  ore  developing  and what is the attraction of pellets?
A. The development of the market for    iron ore and pellets is a function of global  demand. At present, demand is increasing  rapidly,  and  iron  ore  producers  are  unable  to  supply sufficient product to meet this  demand. In addition, the supply of higher  quality ores, which can be fed directly    into iron making furnaces, is dwindling  worldwide. This has forced producers    to mine lower quality ores, and these  generally  need  to  be  beneficiated  to  improve  their Fe content, and often this involves the  production of pellets. Pellets are an  intermediate product, since they have  undergone some processing, so at times  when steel mills are running at full capacity,  they  offer  productivity  gains  to  blast  furnace  operators.  This  results  in  pellets  being  sold  at  a premium to the benchmark price for iron  ore fines. With    the continued strength of the world steel  market, we are of the view that pellets will  continue to attract a premium for ‘value    in use’ and improved productivity in blast  furnaces.  This  should  see  continued  support  for solid pellet price premiums    to sinter fines and lump ores.
Company overview Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 14
Board of Directors and Executive Committee
Strength through teamwork
The Board
1. Michael Abrahams, CBE DL (70)
Non-executive Chairman
Michael Abrahams is Chairman of the  London Clinic, KCOM Group PLC, the  Prudential Staff Pension Scheme and Amteus  plc. He was Deputy Chairman    of Prudential plc until May 2000, and has  served as chairman and as a director of    a number of quoted and unquoted  companies.
2. Mike Oppenheimer (53)
Chief Executive Officer
Mike  Oppenheimer  has  been  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Ferrexpo  Group  since  1  August  2005. He has had global executive leadership  experience across a number of resource  industries,  in  both  the  mining  and  petroleum  sectors.  He  was  previously  President  of  BHP  Billiton Energy and a member of the BHP  Billiton  Executive  Committee  until  July  2004.  He  was  appointed  President  of  Energy  Coal  after the BHP merger with Billiton. Before  that,  he  was  President  of  North  West  Shelf  &  Gas Commercialisation and member of the  BHP Petroleum Executive Committee until  early  2000.  Mike  Oppenheimer  was  formerly  a director of Richards Bay Coal Terminal,  International Colombia Resources  Corporation, QCT Resources Ltd, World Coal  Institute and a member of Coal Industry  Advisory Board of the IEA.
3. Dennis McShane (52)
Director of Business Development
In  December  2007  Dennis  McShane  moved  from  his  role  overseeing  the  Group’s  finance  and  strategy  functions  to  a  full  time  focus  on  business development and in particular the  Group’s  strategic  investor  programme.  Prior  to joining the Group in 2003, he was an  investment banker for over 25 years with  JPMorgan  Chase  with  extensive  experience  in the mining and metals sector and  emerging markets,    most recently as Head of Mining & Metals  AsiaPacific, based in Sydney. He is a  graduate  of  the  State  University  of  New  York  and  PMD  from  the  Harvard  Business  School.  Dennis McShane is also a non-executive  director of Ophir Energy plc.  4. Christopher Mawe, FCA (46)
Chief Financial Officer
Chris Mawe is the most recent addition    to both the Executive Committee and the  Group’s  Board  of  Directors,  having  joined  the  Group in January 2008. He qualified    as  a  Chartered  Accountant  with  Coopers  and  Lybrand  in  1991,  having  gained  a  First  Class  Honours  degree  in  Engineering.  He  has  held  senior financial positions for the past 16  years, firstly with IMI plc both in the UK and  Europe, and then with Carclo plc as finance  director. Most recently, Chris was finance  director of UK Coal plc.
5. Kostyantyn Zhevago (34)
Non-executive Director
Kostyantyn Zhevago is ultimately the  controlling shareholder of Ferrexpo. He has  been a member of the Ukrainian Parliament  since 1998. He is currently a member of the  Parliamentary  Committee  on  Law  Policy  and  Chairman of the Parliamentary Group for  Inter-Parliamentary Relations with Japan.  Since  2002,  Kostyantyn  Zhevago  has  been  a  member of the permanent delegation of the  Ukrainian Parliament in the Parliamentary  Assembly of the European Council and a  member of the Ukrainian faction of the  Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation  between Ukraine and the European Union.  He  has  previously  served  as  chairman  of  the  management  board  and  deputy  chairman  of  the  supervisory  board  of  CJSC  Commercial  Bank Finance and Credit (‘Finance and Credit  Bank’) and as a member of the supervisory  board of JSC Ukrnafta. Between 1993 and  1996,  he  was  financial director  of  Finance and  Credit  Bank.  Kostyantyn  Zhevago  graduated  from the Kyiv State Economic University in  1996, specialising in international economics.  6. Raffaele (Lucio) Genovese (46)
Independent Non-executive Director
Lucio Genovese is also the Chief Executive  Officer of Nage Capital management, a  Swiss-based advisory and proprietary  company specialising in the metals and  mining sector. He has previously served    as Investment Officer and a member of    the board of Taj Investment Limited with  responsibility  for  its  Indian  public  and  private  investment portfolio. Prior to    that, he held a number of positions with  Glencore International, including senior  member  of  the  Copper  Division,  CEO  of  CIS  Operations, manager of the Moscow office  and Trader in the Ferrous Division.    He was an assistant manager in the Audit  Division of PriceWaterhouseCoopers in South  Africa.  He  is  a  Chartered  Accountant  (South  Africa).
7. Wolfram Kuoni (41)
Independent Non-executive Director
Wolfram Kuoni is the founder and senior  partner of Kuoni Law Firm, Zurich,  Switzerland, and serves on a number of  boards  of  directors.  He  has  over  12  years  of  experience in investment banking. Prior to  1995, he held a number of positions within  UBS Investment Banking (Zurich and New  York),  including  head  of  the  European  Export  and  Project  Finance  Team.  He  also  originated  and structured cross-border acquisitions and  equity  capital  markets  transactions.  Wolfram  Kuoni  graduated  with  a  law  degree  from  the  University    of Berne, and holds a doctorate in law    from the University of Zurich and an MBA  from INSEAD in France. He is a member    of the Zurich Bar.
Company overview
6.
1. 2. 3. 4.
5. 7. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Company overview
The Executive Committee
10. Nikolay Goroshko (48)
Chief Commercial Officer, Projects
Nikolay Goroshko has worked for Ferrexpo  Poltava  Mining  since  1984.  He  is  a  graduate  of  the Kyiv Institute of National Economics,  specialising in Industrial Planning. He  became  Acting  Group  Chief  Financial  Officer  in  April  2007  and  Chief  Commercial  Officer  in  charge of the Group’s Growth Projects in  December 2007.
11. Nikolay Kladiev (35)
FPM Chief Financial Officer
Nikolay Kladiev joined FPM in June 2005.  Over  the  course  of  his  career  Nikolay  Kladiev  has spent several years as an    Audit  manager  with  Ernst  &  Young  and  CFO  of a large Russian factory. Nikolay Kladiev  holds a Masters in International Economic  Relations  from  the  Kyiv  National  University  of  Economics.
12. Viktor Lotous (43)
FPM Chief Operating Officer
Viktor  Lotous  joined  Ferrexpo  Poltava  Mining  in  1986.  He  is  a  graduate  of  Kryvy  Rih  Mining  and Ore Institute, and of the    Kyiv  State  Economic  University,  specialising  in  Finance.  He  became  chief  engineer  in  1997  and General Director and Group    Chief Operating Officer in April 2007.
13. Simon Wandke (48)
Chief Marketing Officer
Simon  Wandke  joined  the  Group  in  2006.  He  was  Vice  President  Strategy  for  the  Minerals  Group  and  Vice  President  Coal,  Iron  Ore  and  HBI Marketing at BHP Billiton until 2001.  Between  2002  and  2006,  he  was  a  partner  of  Destra Consulting Group in Melbourne,  specialising  in  Change  Management.  Simon  Wandke is a graduate of   the  University  of  Melbourne  in  Psychology  and  Marketing,  and  completed post graduate studies in  Corporate Finance    at Swinburne University, Australia.
14. Dave Webster (56)
Interim Chief Operating Officer
Dave  Webster  joined  the  Group  in  June  2006.  He previously spent five years as Project  Director with ProMet in Australia and before  that spent 25 years at BHP Billiton  specialising in business performance and  strategic planning. He has a Bachelor of  Metallurgy  from  the  University  of  Newcastle.  Dave Webster was group projects officer  until  December  2007,  when  he  moved  to  his  current role with responsibility for the  Group’s growth projects both at its existing  GPL mine and its planned new mines, and  oversight for Group operations.
10. 11. 12.
13. 14. 9.
8.
8. Ihor Mitiukov (55)
Independent Non-executive Director
Ihor  Mitiukov  was  the  General  Director  of  the  Financial Policy Institute until March 2008.  He has recently become the Managing  Director and Head of Country    for  Ukraine,  Morgan  Stanley  with  effect  from  17 March 2008. From 2002 to 2005, Ihor  Mitiukov served as Extraordinary and  Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine in  the United Kingdom. He also represented  Ukraine in the International Maritime  Organisation. From 1997 to 2001 he served as  Minister of Finance of Ukraine and,    from 1995 to 1997, as Ukraine’s Special  Representative (with Vice-Prime Ministerial  status)  to  the  European  Union  in  Brussels.  In  1994, he was deputy governor of the  National Bank of Ukraine and then Vice-
Prime Minister of Ukraine for Banking and  Finance. Prior to that, he held various  positions at Agrarian-Industrial Bank Ukraine,  and  was  appointed  as  its  deputy  governor  in  1992. Ihor Mitiukov graduated from the  Cybernetics Department, Kyiv State  University and has a PhD in Economics (1985)  from the Institute of Economy, Academy of  Sciences (Ukraine).
9. Oliver Baring (63)
Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Oliver Baring has been Chairman of Mwana  Africa  plc  since  its  reverse  takeover  of  African  Gold  plc  in  September  2005.  Prior  to  that,  he  was Chairman of First Africa  Holdings Limited  and Director of First    Africa UK Limited. Oliver Baring retired    from UBS Warburg in 2001, having led    the International Mining Group with  responsibility for Africa and Europe.  Previously he had been head of the UBS  Warburg mining equity sales team and was  responsible for its respected coverage and  sales  capability.  Oliver  Baring  was  a  partner  in Rowe and Pitman before its merger with  SG Warburg. Oliver Baring is chairman    of  First  Africa  Holdings  Limited,  and  is  a  non-
executive  director  of  the  Merrill  Lynch  World  Mining Trust, a member of the Advisory  Council of Sentient Private Equity Fund and  director and non-executive Chairman of  Ridge Mining plc. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 16 Business review
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 18
Business review
The opportunity
Overview
Our business
The  Group’s  principal  business  is  the  mining,  processing  and  sale  of  iron  ore  in  the  form  of  pellets, used in the production of steel. The  Group owns and operates an integrated  mining  and  processing  facility,  comprising  an  open  cut  iron  ore  mine,  concentrating  facility  and pelletising plant    in the city of Komsomolsk, in the Poltava  region of Ukraine. The Group’s operations  are fully integrated from the mining of ore  through to the production of pellets. All  production is converted into pellets through  its own facilities. In addition, third party iron  ore concentrate is converted into pellets  where this provides adequate margins.  The Group’s mining operation, known as  Ferrexpo Poltava Mining (‘FPM’), is well  located on the Dnieper River in Ukraine,    in close proximity to its major customers in  Central  and  Eastern  Europe.  It  has  both  water  and  rail  links  to  the  European  market  and  (via  the Black Sea) to the main sea routes to  emerging Asian markets. In 2007, 83% by  volume of the Group’s iron ore products  were exported. These exports    are handled by the Group’s specialist sales  and marketing arm, which is based in  Switzerland with additional offices in Kyiv,  Shanghai and Hong Kong. At the year end,  approximately  85%  of  the  Group’s  2007  sales  were being made under long term supply  agreements  with  iron  and  steel  producers.  It  is a key part of the Group’s strategy to  increase the number and duration of such  contracts. The Group’s principal export  markets  are  Central  and  Eastern  Europe  and  China.  The  Group’s  business  has  several  important  competitive advantages:  An experienced management team.  Substantial commercially viable but  under-exploited iron ore reserves.
•
•
Brownfield expansion capability from  existing proven reserves. The Group is  currently the 12th largest producer of  iron ore in the world.
Ready access to additional resources.
Favourable geographic location in  Central Europe benefiting from well-
established logistics links to both    the CIS countries and the expanding  world market.
Surplus pelletising capacity allowing    it to expand production or process  concentrate from third parties as  appropriate.
Long-established stable relationships  with key customers.  The Board’s priority is to maximise  shareholder value through increased  production of iron ore pellets utilising  existing  economic  reserves  and  careful  cost  control.  The Board intends to pursue this aim  through a strategy of commercialising the  Group’s significant unexploited iron ore  reserves, enhancing and expanding its  operational and logistical capacity and  targeting growth markets for iron ore, while  developing new international customer  relationships through its advantageous  logistical  position  and  expanded  production  capability.  To  this  end,  the  Group  announced  the expansion and extension of its existing  operations in November 2007, and has  embarked    upon a growth programme involving the  accelerated development of its  Yeristovskoye, Belanovskoye and  Galeshchinskoye deposits.  The Group listed on the London Stock  Exchange  in  June  2007,  and  was  included  in  the FTSE 250 index in September 2007.  •
•
•
•
•
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
Operating environment – Ukraine
Ukraine is a parliamentary presidential  republic and formerly part of the Soviet  Union. Political instability following the  collapse of the Soviet Union culminated in  the Orange revolution in late 2004/early  2005, which resulted in greater political  openness, faster economic reforms    and commitment to integration with the  West. An element of political instability  nonetheless persisted, coming to a head    in 2007 with President Viktor Yuschenko’s  decision  to  dissolve  parliament  in  April  2007.  Following the parliamentary elections on 30  September 2007, Yulia Tymoshenko was  endorsed as the new Prime Minister of  Ukraine in December 2007, heading a pro-
Western coalition formed by her political  block and allies of the President. Observers  are  optimistic  that  Ms  Tymoshenko’s  cabinet  will  adopt  reforms  to  fight  corruption and  seek  to  maintain  Ukraine’s  strong  economic  growth. The political instability    in  Ukraine  in  2007  and  in  previous  years  has  had little effect on the Group’s business.  Doing business in Ukraine is attended by  minor problems typical of developing  economies, but the Board perceives few  major risks specifically associated with the  location  of  its  assets.  From  the  perspective  of  the Group, the major issue affecting its  business is the lack of a coherent and  transparent national economic policy in  Ukraine. To date, the business community  has had no formal governmental body or  other forum for the discussion of regulated  input costs such    as power and rail transport. The Board  expects that this will change under the    new  political  dispensation,  and  it  will  engage  the government on these issues    as soon as possible.
Ukraine experienced relatively severe  inflation in 2007, with the officially reported  domestic Producer Price Index (‘PPI’)  increasing by 23.3%, and the Consumer Price  Index  (‘CPI’)  by  16.6%.  The  local  currency  is  the hyrivna, which is informally pegged to  the US dollar. The average exchange rate  during  2007  was  5.05  UAH/US$,  unchanged  from that in 2006.  The Government’s official forecast for  Ukraine’s  economic  and  social  development  in 2008 (as amended in November 2007)  estimates that Ukraine’s gross domestic  product growth rate and rated inflation will  be  6.8%  and  9.6%  respectively  in  2008.  It  is  expected that the National Bank of Ukraine  (‘NBU’)  will  maintain  the  UAH/US$
  exchange  rate at between UAH 4.95 and 5.25 to    US$ 1.00 in 2008 in line with its anti-
inflationary policy
1
.
Both  the  EU  and  the  US  have  granted  ‘market  status’ to Ukraine, supporting    its early access to the WTO in 2008. In  February 2008 the WTO General Council  approved Ukraine’s ‘accession package’ and  Ukraine is expected to become a WTO  member after ratifying the protocol of  accession later this year.
Market environment
The demand for steel continues 
to drive the iron ore market
Global  iron  ore  demand  is  expected  to  grow  strongly to approximately 2.1bt by 2009
2
.  Mainly powered by demand led steel  industry expansion in Asia – particularly  China  and  India.  Rising  iron  ore  demand  will  be further supported by emerging industrial  economies in the former CIS countries, South  America  and  the  Middle  East.  The  global  iron  ore consumption growth rate was 11%  between  2006  and  2007
2
,  and  is  expected  to  continue  at  an  average  annual  rate  above  4%  in the period to 2009. Demand growth is  expected to be greatest in China, with iron  ore  consumption  (not  adjusted  for  low  grade  domestic production) expected to grow to  over 1.2bt by 2009
2
, driven by demand-led  growth fuelling the expansion of China’s  blast furnace based steel industry. Chinese  imports  of  iron  ore  exceeded  375mt  in  2007
3
  out of a total world import market of  approximately 790mt
4
. By 2009, China is  expected to account for 57%
2
 of global iron  ore  consumption.  The  demand  for  steel  from  China, India and other developing  economies is driven primarily by the  requirements in these countries for the  construction of infrastructure.  1  National Bank of Ukraine
2  Commodities Research Unit (CRU)
3  CISA, China estimate
4  Credit Suisse
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20
Supply dynamics and global pricing
Supply
In 2007, global iron ore production totalled  1.65bt
5
.  Global  iron  ore  supply  is  expected  to  grow strongly over the remainder of the  decade with annual output projected to  increase to 2,022mt by 2009
5
. The iron ore  industry is highly consolidated, with the  largest iron ore producers in the world  controlling a significant proportion of world  iron ore production and the majority of the  world seaborne trade in iron ore. These  companies have announced extensive  investment  in  new  projects  and  their  existing  mining operations in order to keep up with  the  anticipated  10%  growth  of  the  world  iron  ore market over the next two years.  Global pellet production is expected to  increase to approximately 445mtpa by 2009
6
,  with the bulk of the capacity coming from  North and South America, Oceania and  Eastern Europe. For the seaborne pellet  market, Brazil is the centre of most new  capacity that is expected to come    on stream over the next five years.
  While  global  supply  of  iron  ore  is  expected  to  grow  strongly,  it  is  the  view  of  the  Group’s  Board that this supply is unlikely to match  the growth in demand over the next two  years, and potentially beyond. A number    of new iron ore projects have been  announced globally, but in the opinion of  both the Board and market commentators,  many of these are subject to significant    risk of execution delay, postponement or  cancellation,  due  to  high  capital  costs  and  a  shortage of project execution expertise  across the industry.  Pricing drivers
There  continues  to  be  a  significant  supply  lag  in  the  global  iron  ore  industry.  Demand  from  countries  such  as  China  has  continued to  grow  in  2007,  and  the  iron  ore  industry  has  to  date been unable to commission sufficient  new  capacity  to  meet  this  demand.  Historical  under-investment in the industry has  negatively impacted the supply response of  the  major  iron  ore  producers.  This  imbalance  continues to    put  upward  pressure  on  iron  ore  prices,  and  is likely to persist in the medium term. In  addition,  the  supply  of  high-quality  lump  ore  is declining globally, with the result that  many of the new iron ore projects that    have been announced are based on lower  quality,  logistically  disadvantaged  ore  bodies  that require the installation and operation of  costly beneficiation plant and logistics  infrastructure. This has resulted    in  a  fundamental  shift  in  the  cost  structure  of  the industry, pushing the cost of the  marginal tonne of iron ore significantly  above its historical highs. It is the Board’s  view that the long term ‘floor price’ for iron  ore  will  be  set  by  this  increased  marginal  cost  per tonne. The Group believes    that contract prices for iron ore fines will  increase strongly in 2008, with the potential  for a further increase in 2009.
Pellet premium
Iron  ore  pellets  tend  to  trade  at  a  premium  to  iron ore fines, depending on the market  environment in the iron ore cycle at the  relevant time. The industry generally is  currently in a state of undersupply of all    iron ore products, with physical scarcity of  product affecting steel producers. Typically,  steel mills are currently operating at full  capacity, making efficiency of production  increasingly important. Having undergone  some processing, iron ore pellets are an  intermediate product between raw ore and  iron and steel, and so provide productivity  gains  in  blast  furnaces,  requiring  less  coke  in  the  steelmaking  production  process.  Pellets,  because of their spherical form    and low moisture content, also have  advantages for transporting. Increased  demand  for  pellets  is  also  anticipated  due  to  the decline in quality and quantity of  naturally occurring lump ores suitable to    be added directly to blast furnaces, and  increased environmental concerns with  sinter production. Pellets have therefore  traded  at  a  premium  to  other  forms  of  ore.  In  the prevailing market conditions, it is    the Board’s view that the so-called ‘pellet  premium’ will continue at the higher end    of the levels experienced over the last    few years.  Business review continued
5  Raw Materials Group, Sweden
6  Commodities Research Unit (CRU) –    ‘apparent production’
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
Performance review
Highlights 
9% increase in iron ore output to 28.9mt.  19% increase in production of high quality (65% Fe) pellets from the Company’s    own ore.
Substantial savings in raw materials and energy per unit of output.
Intensification of works in the northern extension of the current mine to increase the  short term iron ore output.  Commencement of operations in Yeristovskoye deposit: infrastructure and site  preparation works under way.  Operations  commenced  at  the  TIS-Ruda  port  facility  and  established  own  fleet  of  railway  cars.
Production
Operating statistics 
 Change 
 UOM  FY2007   FY2006   +/- %
Iron ore mined  000’t  28,934  26,425  2,509  9
  Fe content   %  29.91  29.72  0.19  1
Iron ore processed   000’t  29,024  26,507  2,517  9
Concentrate produced (WMS)  000’t  10,651  9,695  956  10
  Fe content  % 63.50  63.36  0.14  –
Floated concentrate  000’t  5,620  4,418  1,202  27
  High grade  000’t  4,032  3,392  640  19
  Fe content  %  67.28  67.25  0.03  –
Purchased concentrate   000’t  266  441  (175)  (40)
  Fe content  %  64.06  63.68  0.38  1
Purchased iron ore  000’t  172  51  121  237
Pellets produced from own ore   000’t  8,793  8,149  644  8
  Higher grade  000’t  3,701  3,112  589  19
  Fe content  %  65.09  65.06  0.03  –
  Lower grade  000’t  5,092  5,037  55  1
  Fe content  %  62.22  62.22  0.00  –
Pellets produced from purchased      concentrate and ore  000’t  279  401  (122)  (30)
  Lower grade  000’t  207  392  (185)  (47)
  Fe content  %  62.22  62.22  (0.0)  –
Total pellet production  000’t  9,072  8,550  522  6
Pellet sales volume  000’t  9,261  8,740  521  6
Gravel output  000’t  3,162  3,023  139  5
Stripping volume  000’m
3
  18,664  18,517  147  1
•
•
•
•
•
•
Business review
Logistics management: TIS-
The Group is justifiably proud of its  world-class logistics management,  which are nowhere more evident    than in its TIS-Ruda dry-bulk cargo  terminal at the Port of Yuzhniy on    the Black Sea.
A first for Ukraine
The TIS-Ruda facility is the first privately-owned  dry-bulk cargo terminal in Ukraine and  commenced operation in mid 2007. The Group  owns 49.9% of the equity in the facility, but has  access  to  the  entire  5mtpa  capacity.  In  2007,  the  Group shipped 0.5mt through TIS-Ruda, which  was commissioned and recognised in the Port  Rules of Yuzhniy in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Pre-empting bottlenecks
The TIS-Ruda terminal is a good example of the  Group’s logistics management. The Group’s early  investment  in  this  facility  has  reduced  its  reliance  on congested State ports and provided it with  excess ship loading capacity to serve its key  growth  markets  in  China,  as  well  as  those  in  other  parts of Asia and the Middle East.    TIS-Ruda  will  help  reduce  the  Group’s  exposure  to the port bottlenecks afflicting so much of the  mining industry, and the facility    has  expansion  potential,  including  land  assigned  to build a 1mtpa capacity stockyard to meet  future growth beyond the 5mtpa current  nominal capacity. The terminal also    has international port features which ensure    the integrity of the product quality can be  maintained. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22
In  2007,  the  goals  for  our  existing    operations  at  FPM  centred  on  continuing  the  demonstrated  trend  of  improvements  across  all  areas  of  CSR,  and  in  operating  efficiency,  product quality and production growth.
FPM  mined  28,934kt  of  iron  ore  in  2007,  9.5%  more  than  in  the  previous  year.  FPM  currently  mines two different types of iron ore; K22  which is a richer ore containing a slightly  higher  percentage  of  iron,  and  K23  which  is  a  leaner ore containing slightly less iron.  Improvements in mining conditions    in the pit meant that this growth was  accompanied by a 17% increase in the  proportion of rich (K22) ore mined. This  increase  in  the  overall  quality  of  the  ore  mined  resulted in a decrease in the proportion    of lean (K23) ore used for processing to  53.8% (compared to 56.7% in 2006),    which assisted in increasing the operational  efficiency of FPM, concentrating plant and  improving concentrate quality.
  FPM produced 10,651kt of concentrate in  2007, a 10% increase compared to 2006.  Emphasis was placed on achieving higher  quality concentrate. Upgrades to FPM’s  beneficiation technology resulted in  improvements in magnetic iron yield to  92.4% (91.8% in 2006). The quality of  concentrate in the year under review  increased to 63.50% Fe, continuing the  improving trend seen in previous years  (63.36% and 62.63% in 2006 and 2005  respectively).
  Total  pellet  production  in  2007  increased  by  6% to 9,072kt (8,550kt in 2006). Production of  pellets  from  own  ore  increased  by  8%,  while  production of pellets from purchased ore  and concentrate declined as a result    of concentrate market tightness and the  consequent inability of the Group to realise  sufficient margins from this business.    As a result of FPM’s efficiency and mining  volume  improvements  in  2007,  the  decline  in  production of pellets from purchased    raw materials was more than offset by the  increase  in  production  of  pellets  from  FPM’s  own produced concentrate.
The improvements in concentrate quality  and increases in flotation volumes enabled  FPM to substantially increase its production  of higher quality 65% Fe pellets. Production  of  65%  Fe  pellets  from  own  ore  increased  by  19%  to  3,701kt,  and  now  constitutes  42%  of  FPM’s total production (38% in 2006),  consistent with the Group’s commitment to  quality enhancement and its ‘value in use’  marketing strategy.
Business Improvement Programme
We have continued to see positive results  from  our  Business  Improvement  Programme  (‘BIP’), which remains a priority for FPM  management. We have committed to an  intensification of the BIP programme at FPM  to accelerate the shift towards best in class  operational performance, assisted by GPR  Dehler, a consultant widely used in the  mining industry to facilitate improvement  initiatives. FPM is now two years into a four-
year programme which aims to introduce  global best operating practice across its  different areas of operation. Following BIP  recommendations, FPM concentrated on  implementing various improvements to its  mining facility in 2007, principally around the  planning and organisation of maintenance  and repairs. This resulted in substantial  improvements in the availability and  utilisation of mining equipment. It also  enabled FPM to increase the operating  efficiency of its existing mining equipment,  allowing  it  to  scale  down  plans  to  increase  its  equipment fleet and thereby avoid  unnecessary capital expenditure.  As part of the BIP, the Group also  implemented  a  range  of  training  sessions  for  managers and employees, and set up an  initial team of FPM employees with  responsibility for implementing and  monitoring the ongoing BIP initiatives.    The Group has implemented various  management changes, aimed at creating    a culture of continuous improvement.
Business review continued
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
Costs
The Group’s cash cost of pellet production  (‘C1’) in 2007 was US$31.79 per tonne, an  increase of 8.6% over 2006 (US$29.26    per tonne). The Ukrainian PPI however,  increased  by  23.3%  over  the  year.  Relative  to  PPI, the Group therefore achieved a  significant (approximately 15 percentage  points) real term reduction in costs  compared  to  2006.  The  challenge  facing  the  Group in 2007 was to sustain operating  efficiency under these inflationary  conditions. Management efforts were  focused  on  implementing  measures  aimed  at  reducing  the  rates  of  consumption  of  energy  and raw materials through efficiency  initiatives and improvements in technology.
Electricity consumption per tonne of pellets  produced from own ore, the largest single  cost item, declined by 3.3% to 190.9KWHr per  tonne of pellets produced from own    ore during 2007. Gas consumption reduced  by 8.5% requiring 18.44 thousand cubic  metres per tonne of pellets compared    to 2006. There was also a decline of  approximately 4% in the consumption    of steel grinding bodies in 2007. More  efficient use of machinery was also a factor  mitigating against inflationary increases.
Efficiency programmes resulted in a  reduction of the average number of  employees by 11% in 2007. Overall, 9,188  people were employed as at 31 December  2007. This was due to more efficient  operations and improved organisation.  Total payroll costs were US$5.78 per    tonne of pellets in 2007, an increase of 4%  compared to 2006, significantly below the  prevailing inflation rate of 16.6%. FPM has  achieved  a  reduction  in  its  labour  cost  in  real  terms,  given  the  11%  reduction  in  personnel  and  the  fact  that  Ukrainian  CPI  increased  by  16.6%  in  2007.  Total  payroll  cost  in  2007  was  US$42.6m (2006: US$38.3m), or US$4.70 per  tonne of pellets produced (2006: US$4.48 per  tonne).  The Group’s costs are principally  denominated  in  Ukrainian  hyrivna,  which  is  a  managed currency currently maintained at  UAH5.05 to the US dollar.  Distribution costs per tonne of pellets  increased by 9.9%, from US$9.88 per tonne in  2006 to US$10.86 per tonne in 2007. This  resulted  from  increases  in  railway  tariffs  and  port charges imposed    by the Ukrainian authorities. The Group    has  begun  to  implement  a  series  of  measures  to minimise the effect of rising distribution  costs. These include railcar purchases,  renegotiating freight terms with customers,  using transhipment ports with lower  charges, using its own barge port    on the Dnieper River more intensively and  the  Group’s  investment  in  the  TIS-Ruda  port  facility.
Capital expenditure
The  Group’s  total  cash  outflow  due  to  capital  expenditure in 2007 was US$104.4m, 114%  more than in 2006 (US$48.8m). The major  part of this, US$56.9m, was invested in the  mining complex. The Group announced the  commitment of US$47m of capital  expenditure for six draglines to be used for  stripping  operations  at  the  new  Yeristovskoye  mine in September 2007, and a further  US$158m  for  the  expansion  and  extension  of  the current GPL mine. In March 2008 the  Group  announced  US$55m  for  initial  mining  equipment for Yeristovskoye.
Growth projects
Mine expansion and life extension  
at existing operations
We carried out extensive engineering    work on the Gorishne-Plavninskoye    Lavrikovskoye (‘GPL ’) mine in 2007, in the  course of fulfilling our commitment to  optimising our existing facilities. The work  was undertaken in conjunction with Turgis  Consulting (Proprietary) Limited (‘Turgis’),  the Company’s South Africa-based mining  Business review
Our major  
The Group is committed to becoming  the iron ore supplier of choice in  Europe. We value our long term  relationships with our customers and  seek to be the most reliable supplier  possible. Our marketing strategy is  aimed at increasing the number and  length  of  our  customer  contracts,  and  selling the bulk of our production  according to international iron    ore benchmark-price-linked  arrangements. Our major customers  are the cornerstones of our business.
VoestAlpine AG
VoestAlpine is one of the Group’s oldest and  largest customers, and one of the premier  producers  of  high-quality  automotive  steel  in  the  world. Located in Austria, the VoestAlpine steel  mills receive pellets from the Group’s Ukrainian  operations both by barge on the Danube River  and also by direct rail, which provides the  customer with highly competitive, flexible and  small-parcel delivery options. VoestAlpine  endorsed its trust of the Group    in September 2007 with the extension of its  supply contract with the Group to 2015.    The Group supplied over 2.2mt of pellets to  VoestAlpine in 2007.
United States Steel Corp.
The Group also supplies iron ore pellets to    US Steel, one of the oldest and largest steel  companies in the world. Due to its proximity    to Ukraine, the US Steel mill in Slovakia also  derives significant logistical advantages from  sourcing pellets from the Group by direct rail.  FPM  also  supply  pellets  to  US  Steel’s  Serbia  plant  (Smederevo)  which  is  serviced  by  a  combination  of rail and barge delivery. Under    a long term contract, the Group supplied more  than 1.9mt to US Steel mills in Europe in 2007. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24
engineering partner. This work revealed the  potential to expand and improve the mine  beyond what was thought feasible at the  time of our Listing on the London Stock  Exchange. The culmination of this came    in November 2007 when the Group  announced  the  commencement  of  a  project  to expand production at its current GPL  mining operation to approximately 32mtpa  by 2011 and to extend the life of the mine at  these higher production levels for at least  the period to 2032. The design of the pit  expansion is such that the incremental ore  mined  will  consist  entirely  of  richer  (K22)  ore,  all of which will be used to produce FPM’s  higher quality pellets.
This project is currently under way, with    the additional ore production allowing the  Group to take advantage of currently under  utilised processing capacity. This will  increase high quality pellet production by  approximately 15%, or 1.3mtpa. We expect  this  project  to  deliver  meaningful  and  capital  efficient growth as we continue to pursue  opportunities for extracting greater value  from our current operations.  The capital expenditure committed to this  project in 2007 will be spent on stripping  works over the next three years, with the  remainder to be spent on additional mining  equipment.  Major growth projects
At the time of our Listing on the London  Stock  Exchange,  in  June  2007,  we  informed  the market that we planned to double our  production  by  2014.  We  proposed  to  do  this  by commissioning a second open-cut mine  immediately  to  the  north  of  our  existing  GPL  mine,  on  the  Yeristovskoye  deposit.  We  now  believe    that further accelerated development of    the deposits to the north of the GPL mine    is feasible. Studies under way on the  Yeristovskoye and Belanovskoye deposits  indicate that they can be developed  essentially in parallel. Work is also  proceeding on development options for  Galeshchinskoye,  the  deposit  to  the  north  of  Belanovskoye.  Given  the  positive  conditions  prevailing in the global iron ore market and  our enhanced operational and project  execution  capability,  this  acceleration will be  of great benefit to Ferrexpo.  We are now contemplating a fourfold  increase  in  ore  production  within  the  next  10  years. We are planning to accelerate the  development of the Yeristovskoye mine by  one year, and then to develop a mine at    the Belanovskoye deposit soon thereafter.    First  ore  from  the  Yeristovskoye  mine  is  now  expected  in  2011,  with  infrastructure  and  site  preparation works already under way. Six  new  draglines  were  ordered  in  September  to  assist in the stripping of Yeristovskoye at a  cost of US$47m. The Yeristovskoye mine is  currently  in  detailed  feasibility  study,  and  the  Board expects    to consider final investment commitment    to the entire project by mid 2008.  Belanovskoye is currently at the pre-
feasibility study stage, and development  option studies for the Galeshchinskoye  deposit are now in progress.
Our growth projects are brownfield  expansions of our existing business,  supported by our existing transport and  logistics infrastructure and, as such,  represent substantially lower risk additions  of new iron ore capacity than many of the  iron  ore  projects  that  have  been  announced  worldwide.  The  Group  has  formed  a  separate  operating  entity to administer the three major growth  projects  separately  from  the  GPL  operation.  The Group has appointed George Mover as  Director General (designate) for this entity,  and Nikolay Goroshko, the former Acting  Chief Financial Officer for the Group, has  moved  to  become  Chief  Commercial  Officer  with responsibility for all financial and  commercial aspects of the projects. Dave  Webster has moved from Chief Projects  Officer for the Group to Interim Chief  Operating  Officer  with  oversight  of  the  major  Business review continued
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25
growth projects and the GPL expansion  project. It is intended that this separate  operational entity will have best practice  operations from the outset. The Group is  actively recruiting quality employees for  these projects.  We are developing our mining alliance with  DTP Terassement S.A. (France) (‘DTP’) and  project management alliance with Worley  Parsons Europe Limited, and these are  gathering momentum and have been  instrumental in enabling us to aggressively  pursue these growth projects with  confidence.  We  are  confident  in  our  capacity  to  fund  and  execute our growth plans from our own  resources. However, we are actively  discussing the mutual benefits of  investments in our growth assets with a  range of strategic investors to provide the  additional funding and execution capability  that  will  be  required  if  we  are  to  progress  our  plans  as  aggressively  as  possible  in  order  to  take advantage of the extremely positive  outlook for our products.
Marketing 
The Group’s products are mainly sold in the  international markets. Export sales are  handled  by  its  specialist  sales  and  marketing  arm, Ferrexpo AG, which is based in  Switzerland with additional offices in Kyiv,  Shanghai and Hong Kong. The Group  exported  more  than  80%  of  its  production  in  2007. Historically, the Group has principally  supplied pellets to iron and steel plants in  Central and Eastern Europe, although it is  now increasingly supplying customers in  Asia.  18.4%  of  the  Group’s  total  sales  in  2007  was sold into China.
The share of pellet sales to Ukrainian  customers increased from 14% in 2006 to  19% in 2007, as a result of more reliable  domestic demand from the expanding  Ukrainian steel industry. Domestic sales    are made directly through FPM on an ex-
works basis.  The following table shows the Group’s  principal export markets for iron ore pellets  for  the  years  ended  31  December  2007  and  2006 (by volume):
 2007 2006 
 (’000t) (’000t)
Traditional markets  5,900.7  5,641.9
Natural markets  187.9  390.7
Growth markets  1,576.0  1,419.5
Total 7,664.6  7,452.1
At year end, over 85% of the Group’s sales  were made pursuant to long term supply  contracts,  consistent  with  the  Group’s  stated  strategy of increasing the stability of its  customer portfolio. This represents a  substantial  increase  compared  to  the  77%  of  sales made pursuant to long term supply  agreements in 2006. The Group completed  its first long term contract with a Chinese  steel mill in 2006, and has subsequently  entered into four more such agreements in  China. The Group’s expansion into China  demonstrates  its  track  record  in  creating  and  building solid customer relations. It has  increased its sales into China from 1.8% of  total sales in 2004 to 15.0% in 2007. The  Group sold its remaining iron ore pellets on  shorter-term contracts consistent with the  terms of trade in certain markets, or on the  spot  market  as  trials  to  new  customers.  The  Board expects that the proportion of sales  that will be made under long term contracts  in  2008  will  be  broadly  similar  to  that  seen  in  2007.  The Group is also focusing on achieving  higher prices through enhanced pellet  quality and a better understanding of its  customers’ requirements of its products. This  is necessary in order to capture the  maximum price relative to its competitors’  delivered  cost  to  the  customer  on  a  ‘value  to  the customer’ basis.
The  Group  is  a  well  established  producer  and  has been supplying iron ore pellets to some  of its key customers for more than    20 years. Several of the Group’s traditional  Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 26
customers within Central and Eastern Europe  operate steel plants that were designed  specifically to use its iron ore pellets, giving  the Group an unrivalled position within  these markets.  The Group continued to significantly    reduce third party agents in various historic  marketing  arrangements,  and  now  has  direct  commercial  and  technical  relationships  with  all of its end-users.    This strategy will continue in 2008.
Traditional markets
The  Group’s  ‘traditional  markets’  are  those  markets  that  the  Group  has  supplied  historically,  and  in  which  it  enjoys  a  competitive  advantage  based  on  its  location.  These  include  Austria,  Ukraine,  Poland,  Slovakia,  Romania,  Bulgaria  and  Russia.  Serbia  is  a  more  recent  addition  to  this  segment.  Continued  growth  in  per  capita  steel  consumption  in  many  of  these  markets  is  likely  to  continue,  particularly  those  FSU  regions  which  are  effectively    re-industrialising.  During  2007,  the  Group  executed  new  long  term  contracts  in  Austria  and  Ukraine,  and  extended  existing  long  term  contracts in Slovakia and Serbia. Sales were re-
established  in  Russia  in  2007  where  niche  quality  opportunities  exist  for  FPM.  Total  sales  to  traditional  markets  in  2007  were  5,901kt,  an  increase  of  4.6%  over  2006.
Natural markets
‘Natural markets’ are relatively new markets  for the Group in regions where the Board  believes it has a competitive advantage  which is yet to be exploited. This segment  includes Western Europe, Turkey and the  Middle  East.  Turkey  has  plans  to  significantly  increase iron making in the near term and  FPM’s  proximity  across  the  Black  Sea  affords  a significant mutual advantage to both the  Group and iron ore buyers in Turkey. This  segment  represents  a  major  target  for  future  sales growth. The Group is building  commercial and technical relationships in  the Middle East as a base for its sales as it  continues to improve product quality.  Growth markets
‘Growth markets’ are those which offer to  add new and significant tonnage expansion  potential to the Group’s customer portfolio.  Currently China is the major target, where  five long term contracts are in place  providing a solid base for future sales  growth.  During  2007  relationships  continued  to be built in the rest of Asia, specifically in  India and Japan. The Group’s first cargo to  Japan was sold in 2007. With planned  tonnage expansion and further quality  improvements, north Asian markets are  expected  to  form  a  major  part  of  the  Group’s  long term sales. The Group has a shorter  shipping distance to these markets than  competitor iron ores from Brazil.
Pricing
The Group achieved an average DAF/FOB  price  for  the  pellets  it  sold  in  2007  of  US$72.3  per tonne, an increase of 17% over the  average achieved price for 2006 (US$61.8 per  tonne).  Most  of  the  Group’s  export  sales  are  based on annually negotiated   prices  contained  in  supplements to long term  supply contracts. A proportion of sales  tonnage is directly tied to the international  seaborne traded iron ore benchmark price  (‘Benchmark Price’) movement agreed  between the major    iron ore producers and specific Western  European or Asian steel producers for    a  given  year.  Historically,  the  Group  has  often  realised a discount to the prevailing  Benchmark Price, but after adjustments    for freight, quality, proximity and logistics  impacts, this is increasingly no longer the  case. Variations  in the  Group’s  achieved  price  stem  from  price  variations  of  pellets  sold  into  different jurisdictions, as well    as the mix between our 62% Fe pellets    and our 65% Fe pellets (which attract a  premium). Domestic sales have historically  taken place using quarterly prices, but    the Group has successfully moved a  substantial proportion of Ukrainian sales to  annual or long term contracts from 2007.  Marketing strategy
The Group’s current sales strategy for the  Business review continued
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
additional volumes of pellets that it expects  to produce is to maintain and consolidate  the  Group’s  position  in  its  traditional  markets  to capture organic growth. Additionally it  will  maximise  opportunities  for  sales  growth  in  its  natural  markets  and  increasingly  target  growth  markets.  The  Board  believes  that,  for  customers throughout Central Europe, its  products represent an attractive alternative  to those of major seaborn suppliers due to  the  lower  costs  of  transporting  pellets  over  a  shorter  distance  from  Ukraine,  together  with  an ability to provide many customers with a  continuous small-parcel delivery chain. The  Group remains an independent producer  with  transparent  business  practices  which  it  expects will increasingly position FPM    as the European supplier of choice. In  addition, the Group began exporting iron  ore pellets to China in 2003, and the Board  considers China to be an increasingly  important strategic market due to its    rapidly growing demand for and domestic  consumption of iron and steel.
Logistics
In order to meet current and future growing  customer demands, the delivery chain  logistics  capability  of  the  Group  needs  to  be  expanded.  This  is  a  critical  contributor  to  the  Group’s long term market shares and  margins. Significant progress has already  been made with the following:
49.9% equity investment in the first  private dry bulk minerals panamax  terminal on the Black Sea in 2007 the  ‘TIS-Ruda Terminal-Yuzhny’
Acquisition  of  110  rail  cars  in  2007,  with  a  further  440  planned  for  delivery  in  2008
Major  rail  and  waterway  assessments  in  Ukraine are under way to determine  future needs
The  Group’s  objective  is  to  further  maximise  value for its shareholders and customers by  developing world class customer delivery  chain logistics management as an integral  function  of  its  sales  and  marketing  activities.  The Group intends to achieve this by  building on its extensive Ukrainian and  Central European expertise and by forming  strategic alliances with selected partners to  •
•
•
add specific capabilities.  Whilst this is a focus for all of the Group’s  global  customers,  it  is  particularly  important  in the traditional markets where FPM has a  complex delivery chain from its operations  covering rail, barging and trans-shipment.  The  Group’s  strategy  is  to  manage  as  much  of  the delivery chain to its customers as  possible  in  order  to  ensure  on  time  supply  of  the correct quality product at the lowest  cost. Initial focus will be on moving FPM’s  own products, and in future could include  third  party  materials  and  FPM  supply  needs.  The Group will engage customers in this  process to maximise long term value for all  parties. The total delivery chain logistics  scope includes rail, trans-shipment, barge  and  ocean  vessels.  Often  several  of  these  are  required in order to deliver pellets to the  Group’s customers. Achieving the Group’s  objectives will entail significant investment  and appropriate funding methods, as  investment  in  infrastructure  in  the  former  CIS  has  been  insufficient  since  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet Union in 1991.  Group management
Executive management
The Group has assembled a strong and  experienced management team. The Group’s  management combines the best of local  Ukrainian expertise with experienced  managers from the global mining industry.  The Group is managed by an Executive  Committee of senior managers, which is  responsible for overseeing the operational  activities  and  development  of  the  Group  and  implementing the strategy set by the Board  of Directors. The Executive Committee meets  monthly and formally reports to the Board  each quarter. It is chaired by Mike  Oppenheimer, the Group CEO, and is  comprised of seven other members  representing  the  various  parts  of  the  Group’s  business.  The  details  of  the  members  of  the  Executive  Committee  are  set  out  on  page  15  of this Annual Report and in the Chairman’s  letter  regarding  the  Annual  General  Meeting.
Risks to our business
Risk is inherent in all businesses, including  Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28
mining. The Group faces several risks to its  business and strategy, and management of  these risks is an integral part of the  management of the Group. The Group’s  Executive Committee has put in place a  formal process to assist it in identifying and  reviewing  risks.  Plans  to  mitigate  known  risks  are  formulated,  and  the  effectiveness  of  and  progress in implementing these plans is  reviewed regularly, in accordance with the  Turnbull  Guidance.  Despite  the  Group’s  best  efforts to factor these known risks into its  business  strategy,  inevitably  risks  will  exist  of  which the Group is currently unaware.  The list of the principal risks and  uncertainties facing the Group’s business  that follows below is based on the Board’s  current understanding, but because of the  very nature of risk it cannot be expected to  be exhaustive. New risks may emerge and  the severity or probability associated with  known risks may change over time.
Risks relating to the Group’s operations 
Iron ore prices
The  Group’s  business  is  highly  dependent  on  the  market  price  of  iron  ore.  Sale  prices  and  volumes in the worldwide iron ore market  depend  predominantly  on  the  prevailing  and  expected level of demand for iron ore,  mainly from steel manufacturers, and the  world steel industry is cyclical.    As  a  result,  there  is  uncertainty  regarding  the  long term iron ore price, despite the current  strong outlook. There is also significant  uncertainty regarding the state of the global  economy. A falling long term iron ore price  could impact the Group’s  financial performance. The Group is also  planning high levels of expansionary capital  which could yield low returns if the long  term iron ore price falls.    Mining risks and hazards 
The  Group’s  business  operations,  like  those  of  other  mining  companies,  are  subject  to    a  number  of  risks  and  hazards,  including  industrial  accidents,  equipment  failure,  unusual  or  unexpected  geological  conditions,  environmental  hazards,    labour  disputes,  changes  in  the  regulatory  environment,  extreme  weather  conditions  (especially  in  winter)  and  other  natural  phenomena.  Hazards  associated  with    open-pit  mining  include  accidents  involving  the  operation  of  open-pit  mining  and    rock  transportation  equipment  and  the  preparation  and  ignition  of  large  scale    open-pit  blasting  operations,  collapses  of    the  open  pit  wall  and  flooding  of  the  open    pit.  In  2007  the  Group  had  one  fatality,  compared  with  two  in  2005  and  one  in  2006.  While  the  Group  is  dedicated  to  the  zero  harm  objective,  there  is  no  guarantee,  given  the  nature  of  mining  operations,  that  other  fatalities  will  not  occur  in  the  future.  The  Group  may  experience  material  mine  or  plant  shutdowns  or  periods  of  reduced  production  as  a  result  of  any  of  the  above  factors,  and  any  such  events  could  negatively  affect  the  Group’s  results  of  operations.  Costs and reliance on State monopolies
Changes in   costs  of  the  Group’s  mining    and  processing operations could occur    as a result of unforeseen events and  consequently result in changes in  profitability or the feasibility and cost  expectations in mining existing reserves.  Many of these changes may be beyond the  Group’s control, such as those input costs  controlled by Ukrainian state regulation,  including railway tariffs, energy costs and  royalties. In particular, the Group currently  relies  substantially  on  the  rail  freight network  operated by Ukrzaliznytsya, the Ukrainian  State-owned southern railway authority,   for  transportation  of  its  raw  materials  and  finished  products. Railway tariffs for freight  Business review continued
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
increase periodically, and there can be no  assurance that additional increases will not  occur in the future.  In general, the Ukrainian government has  recently  shown  itself  to  be  willing  to  raise  the  prices charged by its State monopolies above  the level of inflation and this, together with  high levels of inflation in the Ukrainian  economy,  could  have  an impact on the  Group’s costs in the future.
Logistics
The Group has identified potential logistics  bottlenecks that, if left unmanaged, could  adversely  impact  the  ability  of  the  expanded  Group to distribute its products. The Group  has embarked upon a programme of  investing in its own railcars, having  purchased 110 in 2007 and planning to  purchase  a  further  440  railcars  in  2008,  and  it  is also investing in its barging capability and  making further investments at its TIS-Ruda  port  facility  for  dredging.  There  can  however  be no assurance that these investments will  be  sufficient  to  manage  the  bottlenecks  that  it  has  identified  or  that  other  bottlenecks  will  not emerge in the future.
Skills shortage
The Group has identified a shortage of key  skills  in  the  town  of  Komsomolsk,  where  FPM  is located. This can affect both existing  operations, and to the delivery of major  expansion  projects.  Key  appointments have  been  made  and  the  Group  has  established  a  project managers’ group for training  purposes.  The  Group  is  using  Ukraine-based  external  experts  and  its  relationships  with  its  key alliance partners (Worley Parsons and  DTP Terrassement) to assist it in recruiting  the necessary skilled workers. However,  there can be no assurance that these  appointments and relationships will be  sufficient to address the shortage of local  skills.
Licences
The Group continues to monitor and review  its commitments under its various licences,  and continues to work to ensure that the  conditions  contained  within  the  licences  are  fulfilled  or  the  appropriate  waivers  obtained.  Licences are critical to the Group’s  operations,  and  there  can  be  no  guarantee  of  their renewal or reconfirmation in the future,  nor that the Group will be able to attain any  additional licences that it may require. See  also ‘Risk relating to the Group’s strategy –  Government approvals of expansion’.
Risks relating to the Group’s strategy
Expansion capital expenditure
The Group is planning major expansion  projects,  which  will  require  the  investment  of  significant capital. The Group has established  procedures  to  control, monitor and  manage  this expenditure, and has appointed a Chief  Projects  Officer.  Monthly  asset  reviews  occur  on site, and an Investment Risk Review  Committee has been established.  Notwithstanding these procedures, as with  all  major  capital  projects  of  this  kind,  there  is  a  risk  of  insufficient  controls  and  cost  overrun  which could impact the time to completion  of these projects and the return on the  capital invested.
Government approvals of expansion
The Group does not yet have all  governmental approvals required to  implement its expansion projects. Despite  the  fact  that  none  of  the  approvals  that  have  been applied for to date have been refused,  there is no guarantee that others will be  granted in the future. In particular, there are  some small communities located on the  proposed sites of the Group’s expansion  projects  at  Yeristovskoye  and  Belanovskoye.  Although  the  Group  considers  that  there  is  a  low risk of difficulties being encountered in  relocating these communities, there can be  no assurance of this.
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30
Risks relating to operating in Ukraine
Ukrainian inflation
Ukraine has experienced high inflation in  2007 as a result of high government  spending  and  rapid  economic  growth.  There  are  indications  that  Ukrainian  inflation  will  be  high again in 2008. If not mitigated by  efficiency improvements this inflationary  environment poses a risk to the costs and  profitability level of the Group’s business.
Exchange rate
The Ukrainian national currency is the  hyrivna, which is informally tied to the US  dollar, and has not devalued despite high  Ukrainian inflation. The policy of the  Ukrainian government has been to maintain  the strength of the hyrivna. A large  proportion of the Group’s costs are  denominated in hyrivna, with the result that  a real increase in the value of the hyrivna  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on  the  Group’s  financial performance.
Financial review 
Highlights
Revenue up by 28% to US$698m
EBITDA up by 65% to US$246m
EBIT for the period up by 63% to  US$187m  Underlying earnings
1
 up by 128% to  US$152m  Operating CI costs increased 8.6% vs  Ukraninian PPI of 23.3%
Free cash flow of $139m
Strong balance sheet: gearing reduced  to 26% from 48%
Dividend of 3.2 US cents per share
Revenues
The Group achieved overall revenue growth  of 27.6% compared with the prior year.    The Group’s revenue for the year increased  by US$150.9m to US$698.2m. This strong  performance was due to improved average  pellet prices which rose by 17% to US$72.3  per  tonne  compared  with  US$61.8  per  tonne  in 2006 and increased production volumes  and quality. Sales volumes for the year  increased  to  9,261kt  (8,740kt  in  2006)  as  did  •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Business review continued
Business review
growth in the proportion of sales of higher  priced high-grade ‘65% Fe pellets’ which  increased to 40.7% for 2007 from 35.1% in  2006.
Costs and margins
A principal measure of operating  performance of the business is C1 cost per  tonne  of  pellets  produced.  This  is  defined  as  the cash production cost from own ore  divided  by  the  total  volume  of  production.  In  2007 the Group achieved C1 cash cost of  production from own ore of US$31.79 per  tonne  compared  with  US$29.26  per  tonne  in  2006.
This excellent performance was achieved in  the  face  of  Ukrainian  PPI  inflation  of  23.3%.  It  is  pleasing  to  report  that  the  Group  was  able  to contain its C1 costs significantly below  general inflation due to reduced energy  consumption per tonne of pellets, improved  operating  efficiency  and  tight  cost  control  of  other general production expenses.
Higher sales prices principally improved the  gross margin in the year which was 51.9%  (2006: 45.8%). Gross profit increased by  44.6% to US$362.3m (2006: US$250.6m).
The  Group  pays  distribution  costs  principally  to deliver pellets to the border of Ukraine   or  within  Ukraine  to  supply  domestic  customers.  Total distribution costs per tonne of pellets  sold  increased  to  US$10.86  per  tonne  for  the  year compared with US$9.88 per tonne in  2006. This increase was primarily driven by  higher rail tariffs.
General and administration costs relate    to the operations within Ukraine and at    the Swiss sales and holding Company,  including Group costs. These amounted to  US$44.3m  in  2007  compared  with  US$41.1m  for the prior year. In 2006 general and  administration costs included US$3.9m in  relation to Vostok Ruda.    The  majority  of  the  Group’s  holding  in  Vostok  Ruda was disposed of in 2006. Underlying  general  and  administration  costs  now  reflect  an  appropriate  level  which  is  required  for  the  Group’s  operation  as  a  large  public  company.  Initial public offering costs amounted to  US$65.9m in the year, of which US$34.0m  1 See Glossary Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Business review
was  expensed  and  US$31.9m  offset  against  the  share  premium  account  reserve.
Finance costs
Net  finance  costs  reflected  lower  overall  debt  levels post IPO and reduced to US$22.7m  from US$30.3m in 2006. This was due to  strong operational cash generation and the  receipt of IPO proceeds during the year.  In  December  2006  the  Group  restructured  its  bank debt, extending the maturity dates of  its outstanding indebtedness and decreasing  its cost of borrowings. As part of this  restructuring, the Group raised a bank  syndicated loan in an initial amount of  US$275.0m. This successful transaction was  later increased to US$335.0m as a result of  oversubscription. This allowed the Group to  reduce its weighted average interest rate to  7.6% from 8.3% and to 8.2% from 9.2% on  floating and fixed interest rate financial  liabilities, respectively.
Taxation
The  Group  derives  taxable  income  mainly  in  Switzerland and Ukraine. The effective tax  rate was 16.6% compared with 18.3% in  2006.
Earnings
As  a  result  of  the  strong  operational  performance  described  above,  the  Group  was  able  to  achieve  an  increase  in  underlying  earnings  of  128.4%  to  US$151.5m  (2006:  US$66.4m)  and  improve  earnings  per  share  (‘EPS’)  significantly.  Fully  diluted  EPS  rose  strongly  to  20.33  US  cents  per  share  in    2007  (2006:  10.47  US  cents  per  share).  Underlying  EPS  was  similarly  higher  at    24.93  US  cents  per  share  in  2007    (2006:  10.92  US  cents  per  share). Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 32
Balance sheet and cash flow
The  cash  flow  of  the  business  is  summarised  in the table below:
  Year ended  
US$ millions  31.12.07
EBITDA    246.1
Working capital movements    (1.8)
Net financial payments    (24.0)
Income tax paid    (32.0)
Movement in provisions and      other non-cash items    0.5
Net cash flow from operating      activities    188.8
Sustaining capital expenditure    (49.8)
Free cash flow    139.0
(Paid for)/received from:  Expansionary projects    (54.6)
Purchase of available for sale      investments    (12.1)
Loans to associates    (5.0)
Distributions    (69.8)
Net IPO proceeds    153.4
Other receipts    9.7
Reduction in debt  160.6
The strong operating results increased  EBITDA by 65.0% to US$246.1m increasing  EBITDA  margin  to  35.2%  in  2007  from  27.2%  in 2006.
Net cash flow from operating activities  amounted to US$188.8m in 2007 (2006:  US$68.3m). This strong performance and the  proceeds  of  our  recent  IPO  have  enabled  the  Group to strengthen the balance sheet  significantly. As a result,    Net Financial Indebtedness  has decreased to  US$117.9m at 31 December 2007    (31 December 2006: US$278.5m).
Overall this cash flow was invested partly in  the modernisation of plant and equipment  for existing operations and partly in  investments which lay the foundations for  the development of the unexploited ore  body. Cash outflow due to capital  expenditure was US$104.4m in 2007  compared with US$48.8m in 2006. Of    this expenditure US$54.6m related to  expansionary projects and US$49.8m was  applied in replacement or modernisation of  plant in the existing operations.
Our increased financial strength is apparent  in  our  debt  to  equity  ratio.  This  was  26%  at  31  December 2007 compared to 48% at    31 December 2006.
The Group’s Ukrainian operations have  continued  to  experience  delays  in  recovering  VAT from the government on    a timely basis throughout the year, which  represents an additional debt burden to    the Group. The situation has improved after  the year end and management are of the  opinion that the VAT refunds will be fully  recovered.  Management  continue  to  actively  pursue this issue with the relevant  government authorities.
During the year the Group continued its  phased disposal of Vostok Ruda, disposing of  6.2%  to  an  entity  under  common  control  for  $5,613,000,  resulting  in  a  gain  of  $4,714,000.  The remainder of the Vostok Ruda  investment representing 3.2% of the share  capital is available for sale.    Also during the year the Group acquired a  stake of 9.91% in OJSC Stahanov, a rail car  construction plant, from an entity under  common control. This is to help secure  supplies  of  rail  cars  for  our  expanding  logistic  operations.  Related party transactions are discussed    in note 37 to the accounts on pages    96 and 97.
Business review continued
Business review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
Metric 
Underlying earnings
Definition 
Underlying earnings is    net profit presented after  minority interests and    excludes adjusted items.
5
Target 
Increase underlying    earnings
Business review
CSR
Metric 
Fatalities
Definition 
 Work-related fatal  accidents
Target 
No fatalities
Performance
0.57
1.34
2.23
2.5–
2.4–
2.3–
2.2–
2.1–
2.0–
1.9–
1.8–
1.7–
1.6–
1.5–
1.4–
1.3–
1.2–
1.1–
1.0–
0.9–
0.8–
0.7–
0.6–
0.5–
0.4–
0.3–
0.2–
0.1–
0––
2007 2006 2005
Metric 
LTIFR
Definition 
 Long term injury    frequency rate
1
Target 
Below 0.75   Performance
0.57
8,149
8,793
9000–
8800–
8600–
8400–
8200–
8000–
7800–
7600–
7400–
7200–
7000–
6800–
6600–
6400–
6200–
6000–
5800–
5600–
5400–
5200–
5000–
4800–
4600–
4400–
4200–
4000–
3800–
3600–
3400–
3200–
3000–
2800–
2600–
2400–
2200–
2000–
1800–
1600–
1400–
1200–
1000–
800–
600–
400–
200–
0––
7,137
2007 2006 2005
OPERATIONS
Metric 
Pellet production
Definition 
Pellet production    from own produced    concentrate
Target 
Increasing production
Performance
0.57
29.3
31.8
3.2–
3.1–
3.0–
2.9–
2.8–
2.7–
2.6–
2.5–
2.4–
2.3–
2.2–
2.1–
2.0–
1.9–
1.8–
1.7–
1.6–
1.5–
1.4–
1.3–
1.2–
1.1–
1.0–
0.9–
0.8–
0.7–
0.6–
0.5–
0.4–
0.3–
0.2–
0.1–
0––
2007 2006 2005
29.9
23.3% 14.1% 9.5% PPI  :
4
Metric 
C1 costs
Definition 
 Total cash costs of   production ex-works
Target 
Maintain increases    in C1 costs below  Ukrainian  PPI  inflation
Performance
35%
41%
4.1–
4.0–
3.9–
3.8–
3.7–
3.6–
3.5–
3.4–
3.3–
3.2–
3.1–
3.0–
2.9–
2.8–
2.7–
2.6–
2.5–
2.4–
2.3–
2.2–
2.1–
2.0–
1.9–
1.8–
1.7–
1.6–
1.5–
1.4–
1.3–
1.2–
1.1–
1.0–
0.9–
0.8–
0.7–
0.6–
0.5–
0.4–
0.3–
0.2–
0.1–
0––
18%
2007 2006 2005
Performance
0.57
149.1
246.1
4.1–
4.0–
3.9–
3.8–
3.7–
3.6–
3.5–
3.4–
3.3–
3.2–
3.1–
3.0–
2.9–
2.8–
2.7–
2.6–
2.5–
2.4–
2.3–
2.2–
2.1–
2.0–
1.9–
1.8–
1.7–
1.6–
1.5–
1.4–
1.3–
1.2–
1.1–
1.0–
0.9–
0.8–
0.7–
0.6–
0.5–
0.4–
0.3–
0.2–
0.1–
0––
185.2
2007 2006 2005
FINANCIALS
Metric
 EBITDA
Definition
Earnings before interest,  tax, depreciation and  amortisation
2
Target
 Increase EBITDA  Performance
0.57
10.47
20.41
4.1–
4.0–
3.9–
3.8–
3.7–
3.6–
3.5–
3.4–
3.3–
3.2–
3.1–
3.0–
2.9–
2.8–
2.7–
2.6–
2.5–
2.4–
2.3–
2.2–
2.1–
2.0–
1.9–
1.8–
1.7–
1.6–
1.5–
1.4–
1.3–
1.2–
1.1–
1.0–
0.9–
0.8–
0.7–
0.6–
0.5–
0.4–
0.3–
0.2–
0.1–
0––
17.42
2007 2006 2005
Metric 
EPS
Definition 
Earnings per share
3
Target 
Increase EPS
Performance
1  Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: The rate per million hours worked of lost time injuries.
2   EBITDA: EBITDA is defined as profit from continuing operations before tax and finance, excluding depreciation and amortisation, foreign exchange gains/losses and  adjusted items.
3   EPS:  EPS  is  calculated  by  dividing  the  net  profit  for  the  year  attributable  to  ordinary  equity  shareholders  of  Ferrexpo  plc  by  the  number  of  Ordinary  Shares.  Comparatives  for  2006 and 2005 have assumed that Ferrexpo plc was always the Group holding company, which affects the definition of Ordinary Shares, to allow a more meaningful  comparison (see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements).
4  Ukrainian producer price index inflation.
5   Adjusted items: Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items. Non-
operating adjusting items include profits and losses on disposal of investments and businesses.
0.57
66.4
155.5
4.1–
4.0–
3.9–
3.8–
3.7–
3.6–
3.5–
3.4–
3.3–
3.2–
3.1–
3.0–
2.9–
2.8–
2.7–
2.6–
2.5–
2.4–
2.3–
2.2–
2.1–
2.0–
1.9–
1.8–
1.7–
1.6–
1.5–
1.4–
1.3–
1.2–
1.1–
1.0–
0.9–
0.8–
0.7–
0.6–
0.5–
0.4–
0.3–
0.2–
0.1–
0––
106.3
2007 2006 2005
Performance
1
1
2
2007 2006 2005
Key Performance Indicators
Metric 
Production quality
Definition 
 Percentage of 65% Fe  pellets produced as a  proportion  of  total  production
  Target 
Continual improvement –    100% of pellets to be    65% Fe by 2013   Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34 Sustainable development review
Sustainable develo pment review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Sustainable development review
Sustainable develo pment review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36
Ferrexpo’s commitment to corporate social 
responsibility
The Ferrexpo Board’s commitment to  corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) derives  from  a  shared  belief  that  the  Group’s  licence  to operate will be underpinned by the  Group’s CSR performance. For many  operations within former CIS countries, the  traditional response had been to use legal  standards as the sole benchmark for CSR  compliance.  By  contrast,  we  are  committed  to striving to achieve the highest standards  of performance in CSR matters.
The Board’s approach to CSR
The Board intends to give effect to its  commitment to CSR through:
group policies;
Board and management focus;  asset level management systems; and  performance management at all levels.
The  Board  recognises  its  responsibility  to  set  the standards that management and  employees  are  expected  to  meet  in  all  areas  of its corporate social responsibility. To this  end, it has reserved for itself responsibility  for establishing Group policies for health,  safety, community relations and  environmental matters. It will also be  responsible for establishing Group standards  on business ethics.
The Group has established a Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee (‘the CSR  Committee’) to monitor and hold  management to account for the  implementation of those policies, including  performance measurement and risk  assessment.  •
•
•
•
Management are responsible for the  implementation of policies and procedures  and  the  membership  of  the  CSR  Committee  therefore consists of the Chief Executive  Officer, Ferrexpo Poltava Mining (‘FPM’) Chief  Operating Officer and the Chief Projects  Officer, along with the Chairman of the  Board.  To  assist  them  in  the  exercise  of  their  duties,  the  CSR  Committee  will,  from  time  to  time, engage specialist technical advisers.  The  CSR  Committee  will  meet  at  least  twice  a  year,  however,  the  executive  members  of  the  CSR  Committee  are  also  currently  reviewing  progress in policy development and  implementation on a monthly basis.
As  the  only  operating  asset  within  the  Group,  FPM  provides  the  focus  for  development  and  implementation of the Group’s CSR  procedures, based on established Group  policies.  Within  FPM  a  single  department  has  been created with responsibility for all  aspects of health and safety, security and  environmental protection. This department  is responsible for air and water testing  laboratories, the medical centre, fire  prevention  service,  gas  service,  civil  defence  and  emergency  response  headquarters  and  workshops.  This  department  reports  directly  to the FPM Chief Operating Officer.
All Group employees are expected to take  personal  responsibility  for  their  conduct  and  management recognise the need to create  the right cultural and behavioural  environment among the Group’s workforce  to allow the policies agreed by the Board to  be successfully implemented.  Sustainable development review
Our commitment
Sustainable development review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37
Health and safety
Health and safety policy
The Group’s policy on health and safety is as follows:
The prevention of injuries to employees is the highest priority of the Board and  management. Our policies and practices at all levels need to reflect this.
Within our operating assets, accountability for health and safety performance lies with  senior line management.
All operating assets are required to develop and implement health and safety  management systems in line with Group policy, including performance management.
Performance  metrics  will  be  developed  that  are  reflective  of  the  Group’s  commitment  to  strive to achieve the highest standards of health and safety performance.
Senior line management is responsible for ensuring that adequate resources are  committed to health and safety. They have an obligation to secure their resources  through the Group’s planning and budgeting processes.
Adequate health and safety training will be given to all employees and contractors.
Specific focus needs to be applied to behavioural safety at all levels, to fatal risk  prevention and to the major industrial health hazards associated with our operations.  Employees are personally responsible for their own safety and that of their colleagues.
Health and safety performance 
   2007 2006 2005
Long Term Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR – see note)    0.57  1.34  2.23
Fatal accidents      1  1  2
Total accidents      9  14  24
Lost days      590  557  549
Note
The  coefficient  of  accident  frequency  is  calculated  in  accordance  with  best  practice  and  represents  the  number  of  recorded accidents per   million manhours.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Sustainable development review
During  2007,  Ferrexpo  invested  over  US$60,000  in  its facilities for health and safety training. This  money was spent on refurbishing the safety  training office and training rooms with the  installation of display boards and equipment for  multimedia presentations and demonstrations.  Fully equipped safety training and briefing rooms  are located in Ferrexpo Poltava’s Mining and  Transport  departments.  These  facilities  are  used  to  increase employees’ awareness of safe operating  procedures and the use of personal protection  equipment.  CASE STUDY 1
Investment in training Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 38
Health and safety management systems
In accordance with Ukrainian law, FPM    has developed a health and safety policy  applicable to their operations and types    of activity that is in line with the Group  health and safety policy. Compliance with  this policy is monitored via a three-tiered  system. Daily control is conducted by  operating personnel, engineers and  technicians.  Production  managers  carry  out  weekly  inspections,  and  senior  management  conducts  periodic  inspections  in  conjunction  with  governmental  personnel.  In 2006, Ferrexpo Poltava initiated the  development of a health and safety  management system consistent with the  requirements of OHSAS 18000 the  internationally recognised standard for  health  and  safety  management.  This  system  was  externally  audited  under  the  UkrSEPRO  system  in  March  2007  and  accreditation  was  obtained in the second half of 2007.  Fatalities and reportable accidents
The prevention of injuries to employees is  the highest priority of Board and  management who adhere to the philosophy  that all accidents are avoidable.  In line with policy at FPM, all accidents are  investigated to determine the cause and  identify  appropriate  remedial  action.  Serious  and fatal accidents are also investigated by  the  State  authority.  The  CSR  Committee  and  Group Executive Committee require senior  management to provide full reports on the  causes  of  fatal  and  serious  accidents,  details  of corrective actions to prevent these types  of accident from recurring and plans for  enhancing  overall  safety  management  based  on the lessons learnt. Senior managers are  expected  to  present  these  reports,  in  person,  at the first Executive Committee meeting  after the accident concerned.  Sadly, in 2007 there was one fatality at the  Poltava operation when a railway fitter was  struck  by  a  moving  train  during  maintenance  works. Following an intensive investigation  into  this  accident,  a  programme  of  corrective  actions has been developed and will be  implemented during the course of 2008.
Regrettably, we suffered a further two  fatalities  in  2008.  These  tragedies  are  totally  unacceptable and have provided a rallying  point for us to redouble our efforts in  continuing to introduce best practice in  health and safety management. We have  now appointed Du Pont Safety Resources  which  has  an  outstanding  record  of  success  in assisting companies to achieve a ‘zero  harm’ objective.  In accordance with the Labour Protection  Law,  compensation  equivalent  to  at  least  five  times  annual  salary  is  payable  to  the  victims  of accidents (or their families). Individual  workers contribute to a statutory insurance  fund which is responsible for paying the  compensation. FPM is aware that it has a  moral as well as a legal responsibility  towards the families of employees affected  by accidents at work and will also make  additional voluntary payments to the family  of employees on a case-by-case basis to  ensure that they do not suffer hardship.
Safety initiatives 
In line with Group policy, FPM is  implementing a number of measures to  improve  the  health  and  safety  of  its  workers,  including the introduction of enhanced  occupational health and safety (‘OH&S’)  standards in the collective bargaining  agreement with its workforce, upgrading  technology, introducing systemic changes  and sanitary measures, better protective  equipment  and  health  care  measures.  FPM  is  also  focusing  on  training  (see  Case  Study  1).  Management and employees are trained in  workplace safety when they first join FPM  and then continuously during their  employment.
Sustainable development review continued
Sustainable development review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
Regular workplace risk assessments are  undertaken and on the basis of these  assessments the correct personal safety  equipment is procured and provided for  employees.  In  line  with  Group  policy  focus  on  behavioural  safety,  increased  efforts  are  being  made  in  FPM  to  encourage  and  promote  a  culture  of  safety. Du Pont Safety Resources, a world class  exponent  of  behavioural  safety  in  the  workplace,  has  been  approached  to  undertake  a  diagnostic  evaluation  of  the  current  working  practices  at  FPM.  This  will  assist  the  development  and  implementation  of  appropriate  practices  which,  in  turn,  will  enhance  safety  self-awareness  and  promote  safety  performance  improvement  through  behavioural  change  rather  than  the  traditional  focus  on  process.  FPM is required by Ukrainian labour  protection laws to dedicate 0.5% of sales to  labour protection and safety. The statutory  Sustainable development review
The  cultural  centre  of  Komsomolsk  has  traditionally  been the Palace of Culture and Technology. Until  recently,  the  Palace  of  Culture  was  run  by  the  local  City Council and the facilities had become out of  date.  In  2005,  Ferrexpo  management  and  the  City  Council agreed to co-operate on the  reconstruction and re-equipping of the Palace of  Culture and Ferrexpo contributed over US$800,000  to the cost of its repair and upgrading. The  significance to the local community of this  investment cannot be over-estimated as it is the  only cultural centre in Komsomolsk. Today, there  are 16 distinct groups of performers based in the  Palace of Culture. Not only do they perform in  Komsomolsk itself, but also further afield within  Ukraine. Almost 600 people, including 200  children, participate in the cultural activities made  possible by the revitalised Palace of Culture.  CASE STUDY 2
Cultural investment in the local community
payment  amounted  to  approximately  US$2.9  million in 2007 (2006: US$2.41 million – 0.51%  of sales).  Occupational health initiatives
In accordance with the requirements of the  Ministry of Health in Ukraine and to prevent  or  detect  occupation-related  diseases  at  the  early stage, FPM employees, particularly  those  engaged  in  potentially  dangerous  and  harmful work, are given medical  examinations both on recruitment and at  regular intervals during their employment.  Employees  who  have  worked  for  10  years  or  more under potentially harmful working  conditions are assessed more frequently.
FPM owns medical facilities at the Poltava  site  and  these  facilities  are  made  available  at  no  cost  or  at  subsidised  rates  to  employees  and their dependants. The cost of such  provision was US$480,200 in 2007 (2006:  US$462,000).
In the past three years, there have been 12  Nitric oxide emissions (tonnes)
Carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes)
Sulphur dioxide emissions (tonnes)
2007
2,875.5  
2,299.2  
888.0  
2006
2,875.9  
2,296.1  
885.7  
2005
2,916.7  
2,294.4  
884.5  
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 40
recorded  cases  of  industrial  disease  (three  in  2005, six in 2006 and three in 2007); most  cases are associated with prolonged  exposure to elevated dust concentrations.  Other  diseases  included  auditory  impairment  due  to  excess  noise  and  two  cases  of  cancer  (which whilst classified    as industrial disease in accordance with  Ukrainian  legislation  and  therefore  recorded,  are  not  believed  to  have  been  attributable  to  the Group’s operations).  The industrial diseases that have been  recorded include some – silicosis and  bronchial  complaints  –  which  can  be  caused  by exposure to particular forms of dust  (although there are also other possible  causes for some of these diseases).  Improvements to dust control systems are  part of a long term package of measures  designed to improve the working  environment.  To  reduce  the  dust  level  of  the  production area in the pit and at the plants  and Company workshops, the pit-face and  technological roads are watered each shift  (depending on the weather pattern).
Environment
Environmental policy
The  Group’s  policy  on  the  environment  is  as  follows:
Our operating practices and growth  plans will be implemented in a manner  consistent  with  the  principles  underlying  long term sustainable resource  development; we will balance the long  term environmental consequences of  our  actions  against  short  term  economic  returns.
All operating assets are required to  develop and implement environmental  management  systems  in  line  with  Group  policy.
All new capital projects will include  environmental risk assessments and  mitigation plans.
•
•
•
Sustainable development review continued
Sustainable development review
Environment performance
In 2007, the Group spent approximately  US$12.7m (2006: US$10.1m) on  environmental permits and protection  measures  including  approximately  US$2.0m  (2006: US$1.5m) in statutory emissions  payments, approximately US$6.0m (2006:  US$5.2m) on environmental protection  equipment and infrastructure and  approximately  US$4.7m  (2006:  US$3.4m)  on  new projects.  Environmental management systems
The primary responsibility of FPM’s  dedicated Environmental Department is    to ensure that all necessary permits are    in place, to undertake monitoring in  accordance with the prevailing regulatory  requirements and to supervise the  implementation of an agreed programme    of environmental improvements based on  the Department’s own assessments.
Environmental laws in Ukraine set  requirements for the protection of the  natural environment, the use of natural  resources, emissions into the atmosphere  and water and waste disposal. FPM holds    a number of environmental licences and  permits, including permits for atmospheric  emission control, solid waste disposal,  tailings disposal, mine waste disposal and  special use of fresh water. Until 2007, the  environmental  monitoring and  management  programme  was  designed  solely  to  meet  the  current statutory requirements. However, in  2006,  the  Environmental  Department  started  to  develop  a  full  Environmental  Management  System (‘EMS’) in accordance with ISO 14001.  The EMS was externally audited by UkrSEPRO  and  given  a  certificate  of  conformity  with  ISO  14001 in the third quarter of 2007. Emissions total (tonnes)
Solids emissions (tonnes)
Air emissions (tonnes)
2007
9,396.5  
3,235.5  
6,160.9  
2006
9,390.2  
3,234.6  
6,155.6  
2005
9,156.5  
2,962.8  
6,193.7  
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
Project evaluation
During the year, the Group endorsed the  Equator Principles as a benchmark when  evaluating new projects. As part of any new  project proposal, the Group will undertake  an environmental impact assessment and  this will be reviewed alongside other project  evalution  documents  presented  to  the  Board  for approval.  Environmental initiatives
Air quality
Dust  and  gas  emissions  are  two  major  issues  that FPM carefully monitors and controls to  ensure that air quality is not adversely  impacted by its operations. In recent years,  there have been a substantial number of  initiatives taken to meet this need.  Sustainable development review
In 2007, investments were made in new  equipment to improve the filtering at the  crushing plant. A programme of pit-face  watering  has  already  been  conducted  during  the  dry  season  for  several  years.  However,  in  2007 this was taken further with the  procurement of two hydro monitors for this  purpose.  In  order  to  decrease  the  air  emissions  caused  by  diesel  locomotives  and  reduce  diesel  fuel  consumption, special mounting devices for  the Group’s diesel equipment have been  obtained.  All gas emission points are equipped with  filters. Dust control measures have been  implemented to prevent wind-borne dust  pollution from the tailings dams.  Ferrexpo  Poltava  seeks  to  contribute  to  all  aspects  of the life of the local community. For some time,  investment in sport has been one of the channels  for such contributions. Prior to 2004, the local  football team, Gornyak-Sport, which plays in the  Ukrainian  2nd  Division,  was  forced  to  play  its  home  matches outside of Komsomolsk because of the  poor condition of its ‘Yunost’ stadium and pitch.  In  2004  and  2005,  Ferrexpo  agreed  to  pay  almost  US$1.6m for the reconstruction of the stadium  including the stands, training facilities and pitch.  This  has  enabled  the  local  team  to  resume  its  place  at the centre of the local life of Komsomolsk.  Ferrexpo has continued to contribute almost  US$200,000 per annum to    the financing of the football club which is now  attracting a lot more interest from the local  community, particularly young people, who are  using its facilities on a regular basis.  Ferrexpo  also  pays  US$50,000  per  month  to  a  local  football club – Gornyak-Sport – for advertising its  logo.
In addition to its investment in Gornyak-Sport,  Ferrexpo also makes contributions to local tennis  clubs,  children’s  sports  academies  (offering  water  sports, judo and marksmanship, among others)  and motor sport.  CASE STUDY 3
Investment in sport
FPM emissions dynamics Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 42
Water management
FPM  uses  some  448  million  m
3
  of  water  each  year, much of which is recycled through the  tailings facility, although approximately 3.3  million m3 is extracted from a combination  of the local river and the municipal potable  water supply.
The Tailings Storage Facility (‘TSF’) also  receives the treated effluent from  Komsomolsk’s  sewage  treatment  plant.  This  situation  originates  from  the  1970s  when  the  mine  and  the  town  were  managed  as  a  single  organisation. Excess water from the TSF is  passed through an extensive reedbed  treatment system (commissioned in 2002  and designed primarily to reduce the  concentration  of  nitrates  and  ammonia  from  the sewage effluent) prior to discharge to  surface water.  Storm  water  from  the  site  is  treated  in  a  new  treatment plant (commissioned in late 2005  and designed to remove suspended solids  and oil products) prior to discharge to  surface water. The new treatment plant is  expected to remedy problems identified  with the discharge of previously untreated  storm water.
During 2006, the washing facilities of the  transport  department  were  reconstructed  to  prevent the pollution of ground water by oil  products that had been carried by the  surface water as it drained away.
Most of the dam water is recycled for use in  the production process; the excess is  biologically treated before being released  into the environment. During 2007, the use  of  duckweed  at  the  bio-engineering  sections  of the dam canals commenced.  Waste rock management
The currently operating Gorischne-
Plavninskoe Lavrikovskoe (‘GPL ’) open pit has  generated  some  500mm
3
  of  waste  rock  that  is deposited in two dumps. There is no  indication that run-off from the waste rock  dumps  is  problematic  and  abandoned  areas  of  the  rock  dumps  have  been  successfully  re-
vegetated. Waste rock from future  operations, including the proposed  Yeristovskoe pit will also be deposited on  these two dumps or will be used to back-fill  part  of  the  GPL  pit.  The  annual  tree  and  bush  planting project assists in the absorption of  gases that would otherwise pollute the air,  whilst also reducing noise.  Mine closure and rehabilitation
FPM recognises that its activities impact on  the environment and communities in which  it  operates.  It  is  aware  that  a  commitment  to  sustainability requires it to prepare now for  the cessation of mining operations even  though that eventuality is a long way off. In  2005, it developed a closure and  rehabilitation plan for the existing GPL pit  and associated waste rock dumps.  Rehabilitation of the rock dumps is  scheduled to begin in 2025 and of the  partially  back-filled  existing  open  pit  in  2055.  The site will be restored primarily to forestry  with  an  area  of  open  water  remaining  in  part  of the open pit.  The Yuzhgiproruda Institute, on behalf of  FPM,  periodically  reviews  the  scope  and  cost  estimates of its site restoration plans and a  review was undertaken in the middle of the  year,  2007.  The  Company  will  provide  fully  for  the costs of mine closure and rehabilitation  as they develop and it is committed to  comply fully with the terms of its operating  licences and the requirements of Ukrainian  law.  Sustainable development review continued
Sustainable development review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
Employees
 
Average number of employees during the year   2007 2006 2005
Production      7,796  8,518  8,097
Sales, marketing, distribution      185  197  197
Administration and other      2,131  2,635  2,549
Total      10,112  11,350 10,843
The target of FPM’s Human Resources policy is to effectively ensure that personnel are  recruited capable of enabling the Group to manufacture high quality and competitive  products.  For the technical and economical positions FPM recruits young specialist graduates from  Dnepropetrovsky Mining Academy, Kyiv Universities, Krivoy-Rog Institutes, Komsomolsk  Polytechnical School among other places.  Training and development
The  Group  is  committed  to  developing  its  employees.  The  Group  provides  technical  training  for all employees consistent with their duties and responsibilities. In particular, investment  has been made in facilities for health and safety training (see Case Study 1). Over the past  three years, on average, over 300 employees have been supported in either full-time or  distance  learning  courses.  In  2007,  75  employees  were  sponsored  in  full-time  courses  and  207  were placed on distance learning courses.
  Trade unions
The  Group  does  not  have  individual  contracts  with  its  employees  in  Ukraine  other  than  with  its  senior  managers.  Most  of  FPM’s  workers  are  members  of  a  trade  union  (the  ‘Poltava  Trade  Union’).  There  has  been  no  significant  industrial  action  or  labour  dispute  at  Poltava  since  its  privatisation in 1995. FPM entered into a new collective bargaining agreement with the  Poltava  Trade  Union  on  30  March  2007.  Management  has  also  signed  a  protocol  of  intent  with  the  Poltava  Trade  Union  for  the  period  from  2008  to  2010  in  which  it  has  agreed  to  ensure  that  individual  salaries  will  be  increased  at  least  in  line  with  inflation  and  that  an  annual  reduction  in headcount will occur, subject (except for any jobs that are outsourced) to an agreed  maximum.  Management believes that wages paid by the Group are higher than average wages in  Ukraine,  although  they  tend  to  be  less  than  the  average  wages  paid  by  other  Ukrainian  mining  companies.  Sustainable development review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 44
Communities
Community policy
Our presence should benefit those  communities  around  our  operations;  our  operations will benefit if local  communities are thriving.
We strive to be recognised as an  attractive local employer and a  concerned corporate citizen.
We will assist in the development of the  micro-economic  environment  within  the  communities in which we operate to  ensure that their dependence on us for  their livelihood is reduced.
We aim to have a positive relationship  with and enhance the communities  around us. We wish to have an open  dialogue  with  these  communities  and  to  ensure that our involvement with them  is cost effective and relevant to their  needs.
Community context
Poltava is located in an area of  predominantly flat agricultural land close to  the Dnieper River, one of the largest  European river systems and an important  transport artery for Ukraine, Belarus and  Russia.  Iron  ore  mining  in  the  area  dates  from  the 19th century, although the major  expansion of mining activity occurred    in the early 20th century. The town of  Komsomolsk was established adjacent to the  mine to support the mining operation and  ancillary industries (transport, power etc.).  Ferrexpo Poltava is still by far the largest  employer in the town, which has a  population of approximately 40,000 people,  with approximately 25% of the working  population of Komsomolsk being employed  by the mine in one capacity or another.  •
•
•
•
Community initiatives
FPM has been a significant investor in local  community initiatives from the outset.    Since 2004, the Company has spent    UAH55.6m on the social infrastructure of  Komsomolsk and the surrounding area.  These funds have been spent on charities,  medical  facilities,  social  services,  education,  religion, culture (see Case    Study 2) and sporting activities (see Case  Study 3), as well as on the maintenance of  certain of the city’s social and cultural  structures. These include contributions to  local municipalities, welfare support, the  provision of medicine, education and sport,  maintaining these at a level in keeping with  the rest of the Poltava Region and Ukraine.  FPM spent US$4.4m in support of local  cultural, educational, sporting and social  projects in 2007.
  Total expenditure on social projects in 2007  was UAH15m. The primary focus has been on  providing  assistance  for  the  medical  centres  in Komsomolsk with the emphasis being  placed on the procurement and repair of  medical equipment and furniture.  Educational institutions in the city such as  kindergartens and schools have also received  financial support for repairs and  maintenance. In recent years, FPM has  provided  a  summer  camp  called  ‘Horizon’  for  almost 1,500 children of employees and  other families in Komsomolsk.  Sustainable development review continued
Sustainable development review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
Historically,  FPM  has  employed  a  significant  number of people to provide support  services to the Group’s mining activities. In  many cases, these services could be made  available on a commercial basis to other  enterprises within the local community  which  in  turn  could  improve  the  viability  and  sustainability of the local economy. To  encourage this process, FPM have offered  finance  and  other  support  to  employees  who  provide these in-house services to  encourage them to transform these internal  departments into stand alone businesses.
  During the year, the road transport and  maintenance, building maintenance and  security departments were transferred into  stand alone businesses. These transfers  involved 569 employees. In each case,  Ferrexpo Poltava Mining has entered into  service agreements with these new  businesses, providing them with an initial  guaranteed income as independent  businesses.  Fixed  assets  and  materials  have  also been transferred.
  Sustainable development review Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 46 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Introduction
The  Board  is  committed  to  good  corporate  governance  practices,  in  its  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Group  and  in  its  accountability  to  shareholders. As detailed in this report, the Company has taken  action to institute an effective corporate governance framework by  establishing its Board committees, internal procedures and Group  policies which are critical for the proper management of the Group  and  good  governance  of  an  international  business.  From  the  date  of  its incorporation until 15 June 2007 (the date of its listing on the  London  Stock  Exchange),  Ferrexpo  plc  was  not  subject  to  the  rules  of  the UK Listing Authority. Since the Company has been listed, the  Board  has  sought  to  comply  with  corporate  governance  best  practice  and this report details the steps that have been taken to achieve  compliance  with  the  Principles  of  Good  Governance  and  the  Code  of  Best Practice contained in the Combined Code on Corporate  Governance issued on 27 June 2006 (the ‘Combined Code’).  Accordingly, the Board and its management believe in conducting  their  affairs  in  a  fair  and  transparent  manner  and  in  maintaining  high  ethical standards in their dealings with all relevant parties.  Statement of compliance
Since  Listing  in  June  2007  the  Company  has  become  compliant  with  the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code save that neither  Board evaluation nor evaluation of the Chairman has yet been  conducted. It is intended that these evaluation exercises will be  undertaken during 2008.
The  Directors  intend  to  ensure  that  they  continue  to  comply  with  the  recommendations of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code establishes 17 main principles of good  governance in four areas: Directors, Directors’ Remuneration,  Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Shareholders. The  following three sections explain how these principles were applied,  with the exception of those relating to Directors’ Remuneration  (a detailed  report  on  Directors’  remuneration  can  be  found  on  pages  51 to 56).
Directors
The Board
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman: Michael Abrahams,  three  Executive  Directors:  Mike  Oppenheimer,  Dennis  McShane  and  Chris  Mawe  and  five  Non-executive  Directors.  Oliver  Baring  has  been  nominated as the Senior Independent Director. The other Non-
executive Directors are Kostyantyn Zhevago, Lucio Genovese,  Wolfram Kuoni and Ihor Mitiukov.
Corporate governance report 
Biographical  details  of  the  Directors  at  the  date  of  this  report  are  set  out  on  pages  14  and  15  together  with  details  of  their  membership  of  Board  committees.  Brief  details  of  the  Chairman,  the  Chief  Executive  and the Senior Independent Director are set out on page 47.
The Board is responsible for setting the Company’s objectives and  policies, and providing effective leadership and control required    for a public company. The Board is responsible for approving    the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital  expenditure. It also monitors financial performance and critical  business issues.  The  Board  has  a  formal  schedule  of  matters  specifically  reserved  to  it  for decision which was approved by the Board. The schedule of  matters  reserved  to  the  Board  sets  out  those  matters  which  require  Board  approval  and  include  the  Group’s  strategy,  business  plan  and  annual  budget.  Major  project  approvals  and  contract  awards  require  the approval of the Board as well as key policies and procedures.  The Board is supported by the Executive Committee (‘Exco’) which  meets monthly. All of the information that is submitted to the Board  by management is reviewed and approved by Exco.  Directors receive a suite of briefing notes and reports for their  consideration in advance of each Board meeting, including reports  on the Company’s operations to ensure that they remain briefed    on the latest developments and are able to make fully informed  decisions.  The  briefing  notes  and  reports  that  are  prepared  by  Exco  take  into  account  the  factors  set  out  in  section  172  of  the  Companies  Act  2006,  which  are  considered  by  Exco  when  making  any  proposals  and recommendations to the Board.  All  Directors  have  access  to  the  advice  and  services  of  the  Company  Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that    Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and  regulations are complied with. All Directors may take independent  professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  in  the  furtherance  of their duties. On appointment, all Directors are advised of their  duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public listed  company.  Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have are  recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.  The Board met four times between June and December 2007.  Attendance by Directors at Board meetings and Board Committee  meetings  is  shown  below.  All  Board  meetings  are  held  in  Switzerland.  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 Corporate governance
Attendance at Board and Board committee meetings
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees following its Listing and individual attendance by the  relevant members at these meetings.  Committee meetings 
 Board  
 meetings Audit Remuneration Nominations CSR
Number  of  meetings  held      since   Listing  4  3  3  1  1
Chairman 
Michael  Abrahams  4  3  3  1  1
Executive Directors  Mike  Oppenheimer  4  n/a  n/a  n/a  1
Dennis  McShane  4  n/a  n/a  1  n/a
Christopher  Mawe  (note  1)  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a
Non-executive Directors  Kostyantyn  Zhevago  4  n/a  n/a  1  n/a
Oliver  Baring  (note  2)  1  n/a  1  n/a  n/a
Raffaele  (Lucio)  Genovese  4  3  3  n/a  n/a
Wolfram  Kuoni  4  3  n/a  n/a  n/a
Ihor  Mitiukov  4  3  3  n/a  n/a
  Notes
1  Christopher Mawe was appointed to the Board on 7 January 2008.  2  Oliver Baring was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2007.
3  In  addition  to  Michael  Abrahams  and  Mike  Oppenheimer,  David  Webster  and  Viktor  Lotous  are  members  of  the  CSR  Committee,  and  have  both  attended  one  meeting  each.  Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held by different individuals. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman    and Chief Executive has been clearly established in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman’s other current responsibilities are set out in the biographical notes on page 14. There have been no changes to those  commitments since the Company’s IPO.  Oliver  Baring  was  appointed  to  the  Board  with  effect  from  1  December  2007  as  a  Non-executive  Director  and  nominated  Senior  Independent  Director. Mr Baring will assist in communications with shareholders concerning corporate governance matters if that    is required.  Board balance and independence 
The  Board  believes  that  its  current  membership  of  three  Executive  Directors,  one  Non-executive  Chairman  and  five  Non-executive  Directors,  four  of  whom  are  deemed  by  the  Board  to  be  independent,  is  of  an  appropriate  size  and  structure  to  manage  the  Company  in  an  effective  and  successful manner. It also considers that no one Non-executive Director can influence or dominate the decision making. The Relationship  Agreement with Kostyantyn Zhevago specifically deals with decision making. More details are given below.
The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on independence of Non-executive Directors under the Combined Code. In the  opinion of the Board, all the continuing Non-executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character to the Board and to the  Board Committees on which they sit. The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors, with the exception of Mr Zhevago, are  independent of the Company as defined by provision A.3.1 of the Combined Code. The Board considers that the industry expertise and  experience of Mr Zhevago is beneficial to the Group.  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 48 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Mr  Zhevago  is  a  beneficiary  of  the  Minco  Trust  which  owns  100%  of  Fevamontinico S.a.r.l, the major shareholder in the Company.  Consequently he and Fevamontinico S.a.r.l. have entered into    a  relationship  agreement  with  the  Company  to  ensure  that  the  Group  is  capable  of  carrying  on  its  business  independently,  that  transactions  and relationships between the Group, Fevamontinico S.a.r.l and Mr  Zhevago are at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms, and  that there shall be at all times a majority    of Directors independent of Fevamontinico and Mr Zhevago    on the Board (‘the Relationship Agreement’). The Relationship  Agreement does not apply to Mr Zhevago in his capacity as a  Non-executive Director.
Information and professional development
Induction was provided for all the new Non-executive Directors    at the time of the Listing and an induction programme for all new  Non-executive  Directors  has  been  established.  All  Directors  are  made  aware that they may take independent professional advice at the  expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties. All  Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company  Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that all  governance matters are complied with and who assists with  professional development as required.
Professional development and training is provided in a number    of  ways  including  updates  on  changes  and  proposed  changes  in  laws  and  regulations  affecting  the  Group  and  site  visits  to  ensure  Directors  are  familiar  with  the  Group’s  operations.  In  July  2007  the  members  of  the Audit Committee received a briefing on their roles and  responsibilities  and  a  further  update  briefing  has  been  provided  since  the year-end.
Since  June  2007,  all  Board  members  have  received  a  briefing  on  the  new  duties  of  Directors  as  prescribed  by  the  Companies  Act  2006.  In  addition, the Board has evaluated all its processes to ensure  compliance with the Companies Act 2006.
Performance evaluation
Most  of  the  members  of  the  Board  have  been  appointed  for  less  than  a  year  and  therefore  the  Board  believes  that  it  is  too  early  to  begin  a  process  of  Board  evaluation  at  this  stage.  It  is  therefore  proposed  that  a  Board  evaluation  process  will  be  conducted  by  the  Chairman  in  the  second half of 2008. The Chairman is currently considering the  process  for  doing  this.  The  Senior  Independent  Director  will  monitor  the evaluation of the Chairman by the other members of the Board.  Election of Directors at the 2008 Annual General Meeting
In accordance with Article 73 of the Company’s Articles of  Association, the Directors may be appointed by the Company by  ordinary resolution or by the Board. If appointed by the Board, a  Director holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting.  Since  all  the  Directors  were  appointed  by  the  Board  during  the  year,  their terms of office will expire at the forthcoming Annual General  Meeting but, being eligible, will offer themselves for election. There  will not, therefore, be any Directors retiring by rotation. In future  years, Directors will be required to retire by rotation in accordance  with the Company’s Articles of Association.
A  separate  Chairman’s  letter,  which  includes  the  Notice  of  the  Annual  General Meeting, will be circulated to shareholders with this Annual  Report  and  Accounts.  Resolutions  to  elect  all  the  Directors  are  set  out  in the full AGM notice along with biographical details    for each Director. The Board fully supports all the elections being  proposed and recommends that all Directors be appointed by  shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.    Board committees
The Board has a number of committees consisting of certain  Directors, and in the case of the Executive and CSR Committees,  certain  senior  managers,  to  which  specific  responsibilities  have  been  delegated and for which written terms of reference have been  agreed.  These  terms  of  reference  are  available  for  inspection  on  the  Company’s website at www.ferrexpo.com. Membership of the various  Committees, including the Chairman of each Committee,    is shown below.
The  Company  provides  the  Committees  with  sufficient  resources  to  undertake  their  duties,  including  access  to  the  Company  Secretary.  Nominations Committee
The  Nominations  Committee  meets  as  required  and  is  now  chaired  by  Oliver Baring who was appointed to the Board with effect from 1  December 2007. Its other members are Michael Abrahams,  Kostyantyn Zhevago, Ihor Mitiukov and Wolfram Kuoni. The role of  the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate candidates  for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies and make  recommendations  to  the  Board  on  Board  composition  and  balance.  The Nominations Committee will consult regularly with the Board  when  filling  Board  vacancies.  The  Executive  Directors  and  Chairman  will also assist in identifying the scope and required skills for the  vacant role.  Since  its  constitution,  the  Nominations  Committee  has  reviewed  the  Group’s succession plan, considered the timing of the Board  evaluation process and considered the appointment of the new  Directors appointed in the second half of the year.  Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lucio Genovese    and its other members are Michael Abrahams, Ihor Mitiukov and  Oliver Baring, all of whom are Non-executive Directors. The  Remuneration Committee meets as required and is responsible  for reviewing and approving all aspects of remuneration for the  Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further details concerning the activities of the Remuneration  Committee are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report    on pages 51 to 56.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Wolfram Kuoni and its other  members are Lucio Genovese and Ihor Mitiukov.  The  Chairman,  Chief  Executive,  Chief  Financial  Officer,  the  Director  of  Business Development, the Group Financial Controller and a  representative of the Company’s external auditors normally attend  the meetings.
Corporate governance report continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49 Corporate governance
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Committee
The CSR Committee, originally the HSEC Committee, was established  on  1  June  2007.  Its  terms  of  reference  were  revised  and  approved  on  8 November 2007.  The role of the CSR Committee is to formulate and recommend to  the Board the Company’s policy on corporate social responsibility  issues as they affect the Company’s operations. In particular,    it will focus on ensuring that effective systems and standards,  procedures and practices are in place in the Company. The CSR  Committee will also be responsible for reviewing management’s  investigation  of  incidents  or  accidents  that  occur  in  order  to  assess  whether policy improvements are required.  The  CSR  Committee  comprises  Mike  Oppenheimer,  who  chairs  the  CSR  Committee,  Michael  Abrahams,  Viktor  Lotous  (Chief  Operating  Officer)  Ferrexpo  Poltava  Mining  and  David  Webster  (Chief  Projects  Officer).  The  Committee  shall  meet  not  less  than  twice  a  year  and  at  such other times as the Chairman of the CSR Committee shall  require. It is the intention to appoint external expertise to assist the  CSR Committee in developing policy in    this area.
Further details concerning the activities of the CSR Committee are  set out in the CSR Report on pages 36 to 45.
The Executive Committee
The  Executive  Committee  acts  as  the  main  decision  making  body  of  the  Group.  Its  members  are  detailed  on  page  15.  It  is  responsible  for  taking  all  the  main  decisions  relating  to  the  Group  apart  from  those  that  are  reserved  for  the  entire  Board  or  which  require  a  decision  of  the full Board, such as approving the Group’s strategy, capital  expenditure and budget. It meets regularly during the year and no  meetings are held in the United Kingdom.    Accountability and audit
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced    and clear assessment of the Company’s financial position and  prospects.  This  assessment  is  primarily  provided  in  the  Chairman’s  Statement, Chief Executive’s Report and Financial Reviews contained  in this Report.
Audit Committee
The Combined Code recommends that all members of the Audit  Committee are independent Non-executive Directors, and that    at least one member should have recent and relevant financial  experience.  All  members  of  the  Audit  Committee  are  considered  to  possess appropriate knowledge and skills. Wolfram Kuoni is    an independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the    Audit Committee. He has worked for UBS for 12 years and    has extensive experience of international corporate finance.  Ihor Mitiukov is an independent Non-executive Director and was  Director General of the Ukrainian Financial Policy Institute until  March 2008. He has since become Managing Director and    Head of Country for Ukraine for Morgan Stanley with effect from  17 March 2008. Lucio Genovese is an independent Non-executive  Director and a Chartered Accountant in South Africa.  Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required to  meet  at  least  three  times  a  year  at  the  most  appropriate  times  in  the  reporting and audit process.
Between  its  formation  and  31  December  2007,  the  Audit  Committee  met three times and carried out the following activities:
Approved  the  appointment  of  Ernst  &  Young  LLP  as  the  external  auditor,  and  reviewed  the  scope  of  the  work  being  proposed  for  2007 and audit fees.
Approved the scope and findings of the Interim Review  performed by the external auditors.
Reviewed the risk matrix, internal audit plan and the  appointment of BDO Vistura International as internal auditor.
•
•
•
Agreed the scope of the internal audit review and annual    audit plan.
Approved and monitored the implementation of the financial  procedures plan proposed by management post IPO.
Approved the policies relating to non-audit services, the  employment of former employees of the external auditor    and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Reviewed the whistleblowing policy.
Reviewed effectiveness of External Auditors.
Internal control
The  Board  has  overall  responsibility  for  the  Group’s  system  of  internal  control which includes risk management and reviewing    its effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to  identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the  achievement of the Group’s objectives. Because of the limitations  inherent  in  any  system  of  internal  control,  this  system  is  designed  to  meet the Company’s particular needs and the risks to which    it is exposed rather than eliminate risk altogether. Consequently it  can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against  material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the  effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee. The Audit  Committee  will  review  these  systems  on  an  annual  basis.  The  day-to-
day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the  Group’s system of internal control is collectively assumed by the  Executive  Committee.  Key  risk  and  control  issues  are  reviewed  by  the  Executive Committee each month at its regular meeting. Two other  working groups have a role in this process, the Finance and Risk  Management  Committee  (‘FRMC’)  which  reviews  financial  reporting  each month and the Investment Risk Review Committee which  reviews the risks associated with any major capital expenditure  proposal prior to recommendation to the Board.  On  behalf  of  the  Board,  the  Executive  Committee  have  established  a  process  for  identifying,  evaluating  and  managing  the  significant  risks  faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance. The  Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the  Group’s  system  of  internal  control  and  in  reviewing  its  effectiveness.  To  assist  in  managing  key  internal  risks,  it  has  established  a  number  of  Group wide procedures, policies and standards and has set up a  framework for reporting matters of significance. The Audit  Committee is responsible for reviewing    the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management, internal control  systems and the half year and annual financial statements before  their  submission  to  the  Board.  It  also  reviews  the  scope  and  results  of  the  audit  with  the  external  auditors  and  the  internal  audit  schedule  of  work for the forthcoming financial year.  The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the  arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about  possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other  matters.
There  are  a  number  of  components  to  the  system  of  internal  controls  within the Company and these are detailed as follows:
A  risk  matrix  has  been  developed  and  is  monitored  and  reviewed  by the Exco.
A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent  and detect material error and loss.
A budgetary and periodic reporting review process performed  by the Exco.
A  documented  structure  of  delegated  authorities  and  approvals  for transaction and investment decisions, including any with  related parties.
A review of the proposed Financial Reporting Procedures    was undertaken by Ernst & Young pre-IPO and a schedule    of follow-up actions has been produced and progress with    its implementation is being monitored.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 50 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
A new reporting system has been implemented to significantly  improve the depth, accuracy and speed of consolidation of  financial information for Group entities.
A programme of internal audit reviews has been performed    by BDO Vistura International.
FRMC reviews monthly financial information and management  accounts and meets fortnightly.  The Board have, through the Executive Committee and the Audit  Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of  internal  controls  taking  account  of  the  matters  summarised  under  the  headings of risk evaluation, identification of control regime and  implementation above. On the basis of this review, the Board  considers that the measures that have already been implemented  both before and after the IPO to initiate a risk management  framework are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances.    The Board is committed to making further progress in the  implementation of its internal control regime, particularly in relation  to  execution  of  the  planned  internal  audit  programme,  with  a  view  to  achieving best practice levels of risk management and internal  control for international mining companies listed on the London  Stock Exchange.
  Treasury
The  Board  approved  a  treasury  policy  during  the  year  and  a  treasury  function is in place and will monitor compliance with the policy and  compliance with banking covenants.
  Investment proposals
A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital  expenditure. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed  written proposals are submitted for approval to the Exco and  reviewed by the Investment Risk Review Committee and then  submitted to the Group Board for approval.  Internal audit
A Group wide internal audit function has been introduced utilising  BDO Vistura International as an outsourced service provider  reporting to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.  An  internal  audit  programme  for  2007/08  has  been  approved  by  the  Audit Committee.
Audit independence
The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the  independence and objectivity of the Company’s auditors, Ernst &  Young LLP, when performing their role in the Group’s reporting to  shareholders.
The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the  auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into  account  the  views  of  management,  and  this  will  be  reported  to  senior  members of Ernst & Young. The Audit Committee has regular  discussions with the external auditors, without management being  present.
•
•
•
The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect of  the provision of non-audit services and employment of former  employees of the auditor. The auditors will also be expected to  provide to the Audit Committee, information about policies and  processes  for  maintaining  independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with relevant current requirements, including those regarding the  rotation  of  audit  partners  and  staff,  the  level  of  fees  that  the  Company  pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm and other  regulatory requirements.
Going concern
A statement on the Directors’ position regarding the Company    as a going concern is contained in the Directors’ Report on    pages 57 to 61.
Relations with shareholders
The Board places considerable importance on effective  communication with shareholders. Executive Directors and    senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional  shareholders  on  a  range  of  issues  affecting  the  Group’s  performance,  which include meetings following the announcement of the annual  and interim results. The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer,  Director of Business Development and    Head of Investor Relations meet with major shareholders    to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the  Non-executive Directors are available for discussions with  shareholders if required.
JPMorganCazenove, the Company’s brokers, also provide regular  reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the  Company’s major investors. Information about the views of major  investors is provided to the Board at each meeting by the Chief  Executive Officer and Head of Investor Relations.
The  Board  will  use  the  Annual  General  Meeting  to  communicate  with  shareholders  and  welcomes  their  participation.  It  is  the  intention  that  the Chairman will aim to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit,  Remuneration and Nominations Committees are present at the  Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the  Company’s website at www.ferrexpo.com.
This report was approved by the Board on 8 April 2008.
Corporate governance report continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51 Corporate governance
Remuneration report
Introduction
This Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A    of the Companies Act 1985 – The Directors Remuneration Report  Regulations (the ‘Regulations’) and sets out information about    the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the  Company for the year ended 31 December 2007. This report    has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP to the extent required    by the Regulations.
As required by the Regulations, this report will be subject to an  advisory shareholder vote at the Company’s forthcoming Annual  General  Meeting.  In  addition  shareholders  will  be  asked  to  approve  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting  the  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan,  details  of  which are set out in this report.  Remuneration Committee
The Board established the Remuneration Committee on 14 June 2007  and it met three times during the year. Lucio Genovese is    the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  its  other  members  are Michael Abrahams, Ihor Mitiukov and Oliver Baring. All the  members of the Remuneration Committee are independent  Non-executive Directors. Attendance at meetings of the  Remuneration Committee by individual members is detailed in    the Corporate Governance Report on page 47.
Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been  approved by the Board and its duties include the determination of  the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the  members of the Executive Committee, as well as their specific  remuneration packages, including pension rights and, where  applicable,  any  compensation  payments.  In  determining  such  policy,  the Remuneration Committee is expected to take into account all  factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the  senior executive management of the Group are provided with  appropriate  incentives  to  encourage  strong  performance  and  are,  in  a  fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual  contributions to the success of the Company.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its terms    of reference comply with the provisions of the Combined Code    and  are  available  for  inspection  on  the  Company’s  website  at  www.
ferrexpo.com.  The Chief Executive Officer and Head of Human Resources usually  attend  meetings  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  at  the  invitation  of  the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Company  Secretary  acts  as  secretary  to  this  committee.  No  Director  is  present  when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Advisers
The Remuneration Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its  advisers  in  November  2007  to  provide  advice  on  remuneration  policy  with particular emphasis on the structure of possible long term  incentives for senior management.  Remuneration policy
Ferrexpo’s  remuneration  policy  is  designed  to  help  attract,  motivate  and retain talented executives to help drive the future growth and  performance of the business. The policy aims to:
align executive and shareholder interests;
link a high proportion of remuneration to performance;
reward a balanced portfolio of performance measures (e.g.  relative TSR outperformance of sector peers, annual business  priorities and individual performance); and
provide competitive rewards assessed against the relevant  market to attract, motivate and retain talented executives.
In determining the Company’s remuneration policy, the  Remuneration Committee has taken into account the particular  business context of the Ferrexpo Group, the geography of its  operations, the relevant talent market for each executive and best  practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies. During  the year, the structure and competitiveness of performance-related  and fixed elements of the remuneration packages of the Executive  Directors were reviewed against mining comparators and    FTSE-listed companies of similar size. Following this review,    the  Remuneration  Committee  is  proposing  some  changes  to  its  long  term  incentive  arrangements  for  2008,  details  of  which  are  provided  later in this report and the accompanying AGM Notice.
To  implement  this  policy,  in  2008  the  Board  intends  to  operate  three  performance-related incentive plans for senior executives:
The  Short  Term  Incentive  Plan  (‘STIP’)  –  to  focus  management  on  delivery  of  annual  business  priorities  based  on  a  scorecard  of  key  performance  indicators  relating  to  both  Company  and  individual  performance.
The  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan  (‘LTIP’)  –  to  motivate  participants  to  deliver appropriate returns to shareholders.
The Added Value Incentive Plan (‘AVIP’) – a one -off plan to  incentivise  the  Chief  Executive  and  selected  senior  executives  to  deliver  exceptional  and  sustained  value  creation  above  a  tailored  sector index. The Remuneration Committee is currently  consulting  with  shareholders  on  the  design  of  the  AVIP  with  the  intention of making a proposal to an extraordinary general  meeting of shareholders in 2008.
Executive Directors
In setting the basic levels of pay for the Executive Directors, the  Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market  competitive with the potential for total remuneration to be upper  quartile subject to satisfaction of suitably stretching performance  conditions. In making this determination, the Committee makes  reference to pay levels of international mining companies and other  FTSE-listed companies of similar size.  Chairman and Non-executive Directors
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the  Non-executive Directors consists of fees that are paid monthly    in arrears. The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not  ordinarily  participate  in  any  of  the  Company’s  long  term  incentive  or  annual  bonus  schemes,  nor  do  they  accrue  any  pension  entitlement.  Neither the Chairman nor any of the Non-executive Directors has a  service  contract  with  the  Company;  however  each  has  entered  into  a  letter of appointment with the Company.
The  Non-executive  Directors’  fees  are  reviewed  on  1  July  each  year.
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Ferrexpo 3-year TSR Index Index +8% p.a. 
2008 LTIP vesting schedule
0
50
100
150
200
250
31 May 07 30 Jun 07 31 Jul 07 31 Aug 07 30 Sep 07 31 Oct 07 30 Nov 07 31 Dec 07
Ferrexpo
LTIP comparator index
Value of £100
invested at IPO
FTSE250 index
Source: Bloomberg
Value of £100 invested at IPO on 14 June 2007, based on spot values
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
% of award vesting
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 52 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Long Term Incentive Plan 
The Remuneration Committee is proposing to continue to operate the LTIP framework described in the IPO Prospectus. This framework  provides  for  annual  awards  of  performance  shares  and  options  up  to  200%  of  salary  in  normal  circumstances.  The  Committee  intends  to  make  initial  awards  in  2008  of  up  to  100%  of  salary  in  the  form  of  Performance  Shares  which  vest  on  Ferrexpo’s  three-year  relative  Total  Shareholder  Return  (‘TSR’).  Relative  TSR  will  be  calibrated  using  percentage  outperformance  of  the  median  of  a  tailored  peer  group  (the  comparator  index).  For  2008  awards,  it  is  proposed  that  the  comparator  index  be  based  50%  on  the  median  of  global  diversified  mining  companies,  30%  on  the  median  of  smaller  focused  iron  ore  miners  and  20%  on  the  median  of  selected  other  single  commodity/emerging  market  miners,  as  illustrated  below.  Index component Constituents  Aggregate weighting
Global  diversified  miners  (10%  each)  CVRD  (Vale)  Rio  Tinto  50%
  BHP  Billiton  Xstrata    Anglo  American    Focused  iron  ore  miners  (5%  each)  Aricom  Kumba  Iron  Ore  30%
  Cleveland-Cliffs  Mount  Gibson  Iron
  Fortescue  Metals  Group  Portman
Single  commodity/emerging  market  miners  (1%  each)  African  Rainbow  Minerals  Katanga  Mining  20%    Alcoa  Kazakhmys
  Alumina  KGHM  Polska  Miedz
  Aluminum  Corp  of  China  Lundin  Mining
  Antofagasta  Norilsk
  Boliden  Oxiana
  Eramet  Peabody  Energy
  First  Quantum  Minerals  Teck  Cominco
  Freeport  McMoRan  ZINIFEX
  Industrias  Penoles  Vedanta  Resources
    The  Remuneration  Committee  will  have  discretion  to  review  this  tailored  peer  group  if  any  of  the  constituent  companies  are  affected  by  M&A  activity.  The  Remuneration  Committee  will  also  review  the  constituents  and  their  weightings  prior  to  the  start  of  each  LTIP  cycle  to  ensure  they  remain appropriate.  No  performance  shares  will  vest  if  Ferrexpo’s  TSR  underperforms  the  comparator  index.  20%  will  vest  if  Ferrexpo’s  TSR  is  equal  to  Index  TSR;  full vesting will occur only if Ferrexpo’s TSR exceeds the Index by at least 8% p.a.; there will be straight-line pro rata vesting in between. In  addition, for any shares to vest, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the recorded TSR is a fair reflection of Ferrexpo’s  underlying business performance. The vesting schedule is illustrated below:
Dividends will accrue on performance shares over the vesting period, and be paid on shares that vest. In the event of a change of control,  awards  will  be  pro-rated  for  time  and  performance.  The  Remuneration  Committee  will  retain  discretion  to  vary  this  treatment  if  it  deemed  it  to  be in shareholders’ interest to do so. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 Corporate governance
The Remuneration Committee is proposing relative TSR as the  primary long term incentive measure as it considers this to be    the most objective external measure of the Company’s success.    The  proposed  TSR  benchmark  includes  the  world’s  largest  diversified  miners,  focused  iron  ore  miners,  and  companies  operating  in  similar  markets.  Transitional award of performance shares
The  2008  LTIP  awards  will  not  vest  before  Spring  2011.  In  recognition  of  this,  and  to  enable  a  smooth  transition  to  annual  rolling  three-year  LTIP cycles, the Committee is proposing to supplement 2008 LTIP  awards of up to 100% of salary in performance shares with  transitional awards of performance shares of 100% of salary for the  CEO,  75%  of  salary  for  the  Executive  Director  Business  Development  and  67%  of  salary  for  the  Executive  Director  Finance.  These  awards  would  vest  on  two-year  TSR  performance  and  be  based  on  the  same  calibration.
Short Term Incentive Plan
At  the  beginning  of  the  year  a  STIP  was  put  in  place  for  the  members  of the Executive Committee, including the Executive Directors. A  number  of  Key  Performance  Indicators  (‘KPIs’)  were  agreed  for  each  member of the Executive Committee and KPI targets were set at  which payments equivalent to 0% to 150% of basic salary could be  earned.  For  each  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  KPIs  were  weighted to reflect the contribution of each executive to the  achievement of that KPI.  KPIs during the year included Financial KPIs (including Group  operating  EBITDA,  NOPAT)  and  KPIs  relating  to  safety,  projects  and  governance.  Their  respective  weightings  for  the  Executive  Directors  during the year were as follows:
  Mike  Dennis 
KPI  Oppenheimer McShane
Financial     45%  50%
Safety,  projects  and  governance    55%  50%
Chris  Mawe  did  not  join  the  Board  until  7  January  2008  and  therefore  was not a member of the STIP during 2007.
For 2008, the Remuneration Committee has agreed that financial KPIs  will also include major capital project performance; KPI weightings  for each of the Executive Directors for 2008 are    as follows:
 
KPI  Relative weighting
Financial       60%
CSR,  Projects  and  Governance      40%
Service agreements
The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of  employment with Ferrexpo AG, a Group company. The service  contracts may be terminated on 12 months’ notice in writing by  Ferrexpo AG and three months’ notice by each of the Executive  Directors.  In  setting  the  notice  period  for  termination  by  Ferrexpo  AG  at 12 months, the Remuneration Committee has reduced the  likelihood of having to pay excessive compensation in the event of  poor performance. None of the Directors have service agreements  with a notice period in excess of 12 months. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 54 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
The principal terms of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are as follows:
Name  Position Date of contract  Notice period Current salary (p.a.)
Mike  Oppenheimer    Chief  Executive  1  June  2007  three  months  from  the  US$892,500       Officer    employee;  12  months   (note  2)          from  the  employer
Dennis  McShane  (note  1)    Director  of  Business   1  June  2007  three  months  from  the  £236,250      Development    employee;  12  months  (note  2)            from  the  employer
Chris  Mawe    Chief  Financial   7  January  2008  six  months  from  the  CHF596,000      Officer    employee;  12  months              from  the  employer
Notes
1   Dennis  McShane  is  required  to  make  at  least  70%  of  his  work  capacity,  as  well  as  all  of  his  experience  and  knowledge  available  to  the  Company.  He  may  make  up  to  30%  of  his work capacity available to Kostyantyn Zhevago’s other investments.
2  With effect from 1 January 2008.
Listing bonuses
At  the  time  of  the  IPO,  Mike  Oppenheimer  was  entitled  to  an  award  of  cash  and/or  shares  in  the  Company  to  the  value  of  0.50%  of  the  market  capitalisation upon admission of Ordinary Shares to listing, subject to a minimum award of cash or Ordinary Shares to the value of  US$5,000,000  (calculated  based  on  the  closing  price  on  the  first  day  of  trading).  50%  of  this  award  was  due  on  Listing  and  50%  was  due  on  the  first  anniversary  of  the  Listing.  The  first  50%  of  the  Listing  bonus  due  to  Mr  Oppenheimer  was  paid  in  cash;  the  balance  will  be  paid  in  Ordinary  Shares. As a result, Mr Oppenheimer has been awarded 1,515,177 Ordinary Shares which will vest on 14 June 2008.
At  the  time  of  the  IPO,  Dennis  McShane  was  entitled  to  an  award  of  cash  and  shares  in  the  Company  to  the  value  of  US$5,000,000  (comprising  US$1,000,000 in cash and US$4,000,000 in shares). Mr McShane was also entitled to a one-time award of US$3,000,000 in cash in recognition of  his past contribution to the Group. In addition if, on Listing, the market capitalisation of the Company exceeded a certain threshold, Mr  McShane  was  entitled  to  receive  an  award  of  shares  in  the  Company  to  the  value  of  0.3%  of  the  excess  of  the  market  capitalisation  over  such  threshold. As a result of these arrangements, Mr McShane received 1,449,664 Ordinary Shares during the year. Of this number, 579,865  Ordinary Shares were sold to settle taxation liabilities leaving a balance of 869,799 Ordinary Shares held by Mr McShane.
  Benefits-in-kind
Under  his  service  agreement,  Mike  Oppenheimer  is  entitled  to  25  working  days’  paid  holiday  per  year.  From  1  January  2008,  Ferrexpo  AG  also  provides him with up to $346,575 per annum as a housing allowance, US$5,000 per annum for professional tax advice, as well as tax  equalisation, medical insurance, life insurance and permanent health insurance.
Under his service agreement, Dennis McShane is entitled to 25 working days’ paid holiday per year. Ferrexpo AG also provides him with  CHF120,000 as a housing allowance per annum, £3,000 per annum for professional tax advice and a CHF30,000 relocation allowance.  Pensions
The  Group  does  not  operate  a  separate  pension  scheme  for  Executive  Directors.  Mike  Oppenheimer  is  a  member  of  the  Ferrexpo  AG  pension  plan  which  is  a  mandatory  insurance  scheme  under  Swiss  law  provided  for  all  employees  of  Ferrexpo  AG.  Dennis  McShane  is  a  member  of  the  Ferrexpo  UK  Ltd  pension  plan  operated  by  a  Group  company.  Under  his  Contract  of  Employment  with  Ferrexpo  AG,  a  minimum  of  10%  of  his  annual base salary is required to be paid to the Ferrexpo UK Ltd Pension Plan on his behalf.
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
Each  of  the  Non-executive  Directors  has  signed  a  letter  of  appointment  with  the  Company.  With  the  exception  of  Oliver  Baring,  who  signed  a  letter of appointment on 30 November 2007 immediately prior to his appointment to the Board, the Non-executive Directors signed their  letters  of  appointment  on  14  June  2007.  The  Non-executive  Directors  have  each  been  appointed  for  an  initial  period  of  three  years  and  their  appointments are renewed on a three-yearly basis, subject to re-election, when appropriate, by the Company in general meeting. Unless  otherwise determined neither the Board nor the Director concerned may give less than three months’ notice of termination of the  appointment.
The  Non-executive  Directors’  fees  have  been  set  at  a  level  to  reflect  the  time  commitment  and  level  of  involvement  that  they  are  required  to  make  in  the  activities  of  the  Board  and  its  committees.  The  key  terms  of  the  Non-executive  Directors’  letters  of  appointment  are  as  follows:
Director   Position Date of appointment Duration of term Fees p.a.
Michael  Abrahams    Chairman  14  June  2007  3  years  US$350,000
Oliver  Baring  (note  1)    Non-executive  Director  1  December  2007  3  years  US$140,000
Lucio  Genovese  (note  2)    Non-executive  Director  14  June  2007  3  years  US$140,000
Wolfram  Kuoni  (note  3)    Non-executive  Director  14  June  2007  3  years  US$140,000
Ihor  Mitiukov    Non-executive  Director  14  June  2007  3  years  US$120,000
Kostyantyn  Zhevago    Non-executive  Director  14  June  2007  3  years  Nil
Notes
1   Oliver Baring receives a fee of US$120,000 p.a. as a Non-executive Director and an additional fee of US$20,000 p.a. for his role as Senior Independent Director.
2   Lucio Genovese receives a fee of US$120,000 p.a. as a Non-executive Director and an additional fee of US$20,000 p.a. for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration  Committee.
3  Wolfram  Kuoni  receives  a  fee  of  US$120,000  p.a.  as  a  Non-executive  Director  and  an  additional  fee  of  US$20,000  p.a.  for  his  role  as  Chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee. 0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Ferrexpo 3-year TSR Index Index +8% p.a. 
2008 LTIP vesting schedule
0
50
100
150
200
250
31 May 07 30 Jun 07 31 Jul 07 31 Aug 07 30 Sep 07 31 Oct 07 30 Nov 07 31 Dec 07
Ferrexpo
LTIP comparator index
Value of £100
invested at IPO
FTSE250 index
Source: Bloomberg
Value of £100 invested at IPO on 14 June 2007, based on spot values
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
% of award vesting
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Corporate governance
External appointments 
It  is  the  Board’s  policy  to  allow  the  Executive  Directors  to  accept  directorships  of  other  quoted  companies  provided  that  they  have  obtained  the consent of both the Chairman of the Company and Mr Zhevago. Any such directorships must be formally notified to    the Board.
Performance review
Directors’ remuneration – Audited Information 
Directors’ remuneration for the period from Listing or their appointment (if earlier) to 31 December 2007.
Salary, Annual Bonus and other benefits
         Total Total 
     Salary Pension Benefit Bonus 2007 2006
     US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000
Chairman      
Michael  Abrahams          204  –  164  –  368  –
Executive Directors      
Mike  Oppenheimer          568  50  3,042  6,264  9,924  –
Dennis  McShane          327  45  4,058  4,847  9,277  –
Non-executive Directors            Oliver  Baring          11  –  87  –  98  –
Lucio  Genovese          80  –  90  –  170  –
Wolfram  Kuoni          80  –  90  –  170  –
Ihor  Mitiukov          70  –  90  –  160  –
Kostyantyn  Zhevago          –  –  –  –  –  –
Total          1,340  95  7,620  11,111  20,167  –
Note
No compensation for loss of office was paid during the year ended 31 December 2007.
All  Directors  with  the  exception  of  Messrs  McShane  and  Baring  were  appointed  to  the  Board  on  1  June  2007.  Dennis  McShane  was  appointed  to the Board on 25 April 2007 and Oliver Baring was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2007. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 56 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Listing bonus awards
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors were all awarded shares in the Company on their appointment to the Board as follows:
   Shares due Shares due Shares due  
 Relevant  Shares on first on second on third Total 
 anniversary awarded on anniversary  anniversary anniversary  shares
Director date appointment date date date awarded 
Michael  Abrahams  15  June  2007  Nil  90,657  90,657  90,657  271,971
Oliver  Baring  1  December  2007  12,060  12,060  Nil  Nil  24,120
Lucio  Genovese  15  June  2007  16,318  16,318  Nil  Nil  32,636
Wolfram  Kuoni  15  June  2007  16,318  16,318  Nil  Nil  32,636
Ihor  Mitiukov  15  June  2007  16,318  16,318  Nil  Nil  32,636
  Under  the  terms  of  the  Trust  Deed  under  which  the  shares  in  the  Company  were  awarded  upon  appointment,  the  Trustee  may  deduct  shares  in  order  to  settle  tax  and  related  liabilities  on  behalf  of  the  Director  concerned.  As  a  consequence  of  this  provision,  deductions  of  shares  were  made in respect of Lucio Genovese, Wolfram Kuoni and Oliver Baring.
Directors’ interests in Ordinary Shares
The interests of Directors are set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 57 to 61.
Annual General Meeting
Shareholders  will  be  asked  to  vote,  on  an  advisory  basis,  on  this  Remuneration  Report  at  the  Company’s  forthcoming  Annual  General Meeting.  This Report was approved by the Board on 8 April 2008.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Lucio Genovese
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration report continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57 Corporate governance
Directors’ report
The Directors present their first report to shareholders for the financial year ending 31 December 2007.  Principal activities and business review
The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
The  Group’s  principal  business  is  the  mining,  processing  and  sale  of  iron  ore  in  the  form  of  pellets  for  use  in  the  production  of  steel.  The  Group  owns  and  operates  an  integrated  mining  and  processing  facility,  comprising  an  open  pit  iron  ore  mine  in  the  Ukraine.  Additional  information  on the Group’s operations is provided in the Company Overview and Business Review sections on pages 2 to 33.
Review of the business and future developments
A  review  of  the  business  and  future  developments  of  the  Group  are  presented  in  the  Chairman’s  Statement,  the  Chief  Executive’s  Report  and  the Business Review on pages 4 to 33.
Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 64.  The Directors recommend a dividend of 3.2 US cents per Ordinary Share. Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the  Annual  General  Meeting  (the  ‘AGM’),  the  dividend  will  be  paid  in  UK  pounds  sterling  on  19  May  2008  to  shareholders  on  the  register  at  the  close  of  business  on  18  April  2008.  Shareholders  may  receive  UK  pounds  sterling  dividends  by  direct  bank  transfer,  provided  that  they  have  notified  the  Company’s  registrars  in  advance.  Shareholders  may  elect  to  receive  dividends  in  US  dollars.  Details  of  the  proposed  dividend  and  the arrangements for either receiving UK pounds sterling dividends by direct bank transfer or receiving dividends in US dollars have been  circulated to shareholders separately on 1 April 2008.
Events since the balance sheet date
Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in note 46 to the financial statements on page 103.
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 46 to 50.
Risk management policies
The  Group’s  risk  management  policies  are  established  by  the  Board  of  Directors  to  identify  and  analyse  the  risks  faced  by  the  Group,  to  set  appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed  regularly  to  reflect  changes  in  market  conditions  and  the  Group’s  activities.  The  Group,  through  its  training  and  management  standards  and  procedures,  aims  to  develop  a  disciplined  and  constructive  control  environment  in  which  all  employees  understand  their  roles  and  obligations.  Full  details  of  the  Group’s  policy  on  risk  and  an  overview  of  the  Group’s  exposure  to  credit,  liquidity  and  market  risks  are  set  out  in  note  3  of  the  ‘Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information’ on pages 76 to 79.
Corporate social responsibility
The  Ferrexpo  Board’s  commitment  to  corporate  social  responsibility  (‘CSR’)  derives  from  a  shared  belief  that  the  Group’s  licence  to  operate  will  be  underpinned  by  the  Group’s  CSR  performance.  For  many  operations  within  former  CIS  countries,  the  traditional  response  had  been  to  use  legal  standards  as  the  sole  benchmark  for  CSR  compliance.  By  contrast,  we  are  committed  to  striving  to  achieve  the  highest  standards  of  performance in CSR matters.  The  Board  recognises  that  it  has  a  responsibility  to  set  standards  which  management  and  employees  will  be  expected  to  meet  in  all  areas  of  CSR.  To  this  end,  the  Board  has  reserved  for  itself  the  responsibility  for  establishing  Group  policies  covering  health,  safety,  community  relations  and environmental matters. Accordingly, a full review of health, safety and environmental performance and community participation is  presented in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 36 to 45.  Directors and their interests
The  interests  of  the  Directors  as  at  their  date  of  appointment,  31  December  2007  and  as  at  15  March  2008  in  the  share  capital  of  the  Company  were:  Date of  31 December 15 March 
Name appointment 2007 2008
Michael  Abrahams  (note  1)  –  271,971  271,971
Mike  Oppenheimer  (note  2)  –  1,515,177  1,515,177
Dennis  McShane   –  869,799  869,799
Christopher  Mawe  –  –  –
Kostyantyn  Zhevago  (note  3)  533,543,489  443,905,924  443,905,924
Oliver  Baring  (note  4)  –  19,176  19,176
Lucio  Genovese  (note  5)  –  313,659  313,659
Wolfram  Kuoni  (note  6)  –  27,945  27,945
Ihor  Mitiukov  (note  7)  –  32,636  32,636
Notes
1  271,971  Ordinary  Shares  are  held  on  behalf  of  Michael  Abrahams  by  Appleby  Trust  (Jersey)  Limited  and  will  vest  in  his  favour  as  to  one  third  each  on  15  June  2008,  15 June  2009 and 15 June 2010.
2  All of these shares are held on behalf of Mike Oppenheimer by Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited and will vest in his favour on 15 June 2008.  3  Kostyantyn  Zhevago  is  interested  in  these  shares  by  reason  of  being  a  beneficiary  of  The  Minco  Trust,  which  is  the  sole  shareholder  of  Fevamotinico  S.a.r.l,  which  owns  443,905,924 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
4  12,060 of these shares are held on behalf of Oliver Baring by Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited and will vest in his favour on 1 December 2008.
5  16,138 of these shares are held on behalf of Lucio Genovese by Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited and will vest in his favour on 15 June 2008.
6  16,138 of these shares are held on behalf of Wolfram Kuoni by Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited and will vest in his favour on 15 June 2008.
7  16,138 of these shares are held on behalf of Ihor Mitiukov by Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited and will vest in his favour on 15 June 2008. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 58 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
All of the current Directors were appointed during the year. Further  details  about  the  Directors  and  their  roles  within  the  Group  are  given  in the Directors’ biographies on pages 14 and 15.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company,    all  of  the  Directors  listed  above,  who  were  appointed  during  the  year,  will  retire  at  the  forthcoming  AGM  and  offer  themselves  for  election.  Details  of  the  resolutions  that  will  be  put  to  the  AGM  are  given  in  the  Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in a separate  circular to shareholders.
During the year, the following Director changes took place. These  were implemented as part of the reorganisation of the Company  prior to Listing. Ian Pellow resigned as a Director on 1 June 2007;  Geoff  Eyre  was  appointed  a  Director  on  8  May  2007  and  resigned  on  1  June 2007 and Nayana Bharti resigned as a Director on    25 April 2007.
Dennis McShane was appointed as a Director on 25 April 2007.  Michael Abrahams, Mike Oppenheimer, Lucio Genovese, Wolfram  Kuoni, Ihor Mitiukov and Kostyantyn Zhevago were all appointed    to the Board on 1 June 2007. Oliver Baring was appointed to the  Board on 1 December 2007 and Chris Mawe was appointed a Director  on 7 January 2008.
Relationship Agreement
Fevamotinico S.a.r.l, Kostyantyn Zhevago, The Minco Trust and    the Company have entered into an agreement (the ‘Relationship  Agreement’) which will regulate the ongoing relationship between  them  to  ensure  that  the  Group  is  capable  of  carrying  on  its  business  independently  of  Fevamotinico  S.a.r.l.  and  Kostyantyn  Zhevago  (as  a  Non-executive Director), and to ensure that transactions and  relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico S.a.r.l. and  Kostyantyn  Zhevago  are  at  arm’s  length  and  on  a  commercial  basis.
Remuneration of Directors
Details  of  Directors’  Remuneration  can  be  found  in  the  Remuneration  Report on pages 51 to 56.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
During the period under review the Company had in force an  indemnity provision in favour of one or more of the Directors of  Ferrexpo plc, against liability in respect of proceedings brought by  third  parties,  subject  to  the  conditions  set  out  in  the  Companies  Act  1985.
Share capital and authority to purchase own shares
Details  of  the  authorised  and  issued  share  capital  of  the  Company  are  shown in note 29 of the financial statements.  The Company was given authority to make market purchases of    up to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a  resolution passed on 14 June 2007. This authority will expire at    the  conclusion  of  the  Company’s  first  Annual  General  Meeting  or  on  31 July 2008, whichever is the earlier, unless it is renewed.  Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will be  proposed  at  the  forthcoming  AGM.  Details  of  the  resolution  renewing  the  authority  to  purchase  Ordinary  Shares  are  set  out  in  the  Notice  of  Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report.  The Company did not purchase any of its issued Ordinary Shares  during the year under the authority mentioned above.
Directors’ report continued
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 March 2008, the following major interests in the    ordinary shares of £0.10 each of the Company had been notified to  the Company:
  % of  
  ordinary  
 Number of issued 
 Ordinary  share  
Name of shareholder Shares capital
Fevamotinico  S.a.r.l  (note  1)  443,905,924    72.3
Nevis  Corporate  Services  Limited/      Paneuro  Products  Limited  (note  2)    20,000,000  3.3
Notes
1  Fevamotinico S.a.r.l. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Minco Trust of which  Kostyantyn Zhevago is a beneficiary.
2  Igor  Kolomoisky  has  a  controlling  interest  in  Nevis  Corporate  Services  Limited  and  Paneuro Products Limited, each of which hold 10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of  Ferrexpo plc.
Shareholder rights
The Company is admitted to trading on the Main Market of the  London  Stock  Exchange  and  is  therefore  required  by  section  992  of  the  Companies  Act  2006  to  make  certain  disclosures  concerning  the  rights attached to its shares. This information is set out in the  Appendix to this Report on pages 60 to 61.  Going concern
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has  sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable  future.  Accordingly  they  continue  to  adopt  the  going  concern  basis  in  preparing the financial statements.
Market value of land and buildings
Land  is  carried  in  the  balance  sheet  at  deemed  cost  resulting  from  a  valuation, which was undertaken on 1 January 2003 as part of the  Group’s transition to reporting under IFRS. It is not practical to  estimate  the  market  value  of  land  and  mineral  reserves  and  resources  at each balance sheet date.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments
The  Group  does  not  hold  any  derivative  financial  instruments.  Group  policy  on  financial  instruments  is  set  out  in  note  2  to  the  Consolidated  Financial Information on pages 68 to 76.
Creditor payment policy and practice
It is the Company’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in  accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the  Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms  and conditions have been complied with. The average creditor  payment period for the period ended 31 December 2007 for the  Company was 14 days (2006: nil days).
Charitable and political donations
The Company made no political donations during the year.    Group donations to charities worldwide were US$2,791,000    (2006: US$1,880,000), with UK charities receiving US$nil    (2006: $nil). Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 59 Corporate governance
Statement on disclosure of information to auditors
The  Directors  who  held  office  at  the  date  of  approval  of  this  Directors’  Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware,    there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s  auditors  are  unaware,  and  that  each  Director  has  taken  all  reasonable  steps to make themselves aware of any relevant    audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors    are aware of that information.
A  Statement  of  the  Responsibilities  of  the  Directors  for  preparing  the  Group and Company financial statements is set out on page 62.
Annual General Meeting
The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held    at 11.00am on 15 May 2008 at The Lanesborough Hotel,    Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA. A letter from the  Chairman summarising the business of the meeting and the    Notice  convening  the  AGM  has  been  sent  to  shareholders  separately  with this Report.
Auditors
Having  reviewed  the  independence  and  effectiveness  of  the  auditors,  the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the  existing  auditors,  Ernst  &  Young  LLP,  be  reappointed.  Ernst  &  Young  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and an  ordinary resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising  the  Directors  to  set  their  remuneration  will  be  proposed  at  the  2008  Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 8 April 2008.
Prism Cosec Ltd
Company Secretary
Ferrexpo plc
Registered Office:
2-4 King Street
London SW1Y 6QL
Registered number: 5432915
Headquarters:
Bahnhofstrasse 13
CH-6340 Baar
Switzerland Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 60 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
Additional information for shareholders
The following information is given pursuant to section 992 of the  Companies Act 2006.
Share capital
The  Company  has  a  single  class  of  share  capital  which  is  divided  into  ordinary shares of 10p each. The shares are in registered form.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
Subject  to  applicable  statutes  and  other  shareholders’  rights,  shares  may  be  issued  with  such  rights  and  restrictions  as  the  Company  may  by ordinary resolution decide, or (if there is no    such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision)    as the Board may decide. Subject to the Company’s Articles of  Association  (as  adopted  by  special  resolution  on  14  June  2007)  (the  ‘Articles’), the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006  (together the ‘Companies Acts’) and other shareholder rights,  unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board. At each annual  general meeting, the Company proposes to put in place annual  shareholder authority authorising the Company’s Directors to allot  unissued shares in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor  Protection Committee.
Voting
Subject  to  any  rights  or  restrictions  attaching  to  any  class  of  shares,  every member present in person at a general meeting has, upon a  show of hands, one vote. In the case of joint holders of a share, the  vote of a senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy,  shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the    other joint holders and seniority shall be determined by the order    in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint  holding.  Under  the  Companies  Acts,  members  are  entitled  to  appoint  a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and    to vote on their behalf at a general meeting but shall not confer    any right to speak at a meeting unless invited to do so by the  Chairman.  A  member  may  appoint  more  than  one  proxy  in  relation  to  a  general  meeting  provided  that  each  proxy  is  appointed  to  exercise  the rights attached to a different share or shares held    by that member. A member that is a corporation may appoint    one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting    as a corporate representative. Where more than one corporate  representative has been appointed, any one of them is entitled    to vote and exercise other powers on behalf of the member at a  general meeting but, in the event that the representatives’ votes or  other powers conflict, the power is treated by the Company as not  having been exercised and the member will be deemed to have  abstained from exercising its votes or powers.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting in  respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then  payable  by  him  in  respect  of  that  share  remains  unpaid.  Currently,  all  issued  shares  are  fully  paid.  In  addition,  no  member  shall  be  entitled  to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice (as defined in  the Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information  concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under  the Companies Acts.
Deadlines for voting rights
Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in  respect  of  which  the  business  being  voted  upon  is  being  heard.  Votes  may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate  members,  by  corporate  representatives.  Under  the  Companies  Acts,  the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot    be earlier than 48 hours (excluding non-working days) before the  meeting for which the proxy is being appointed. The Articles,  however, provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of    not less than 48 hours (or such shorter time as the Board may  determine) before the meeting (not excluding non-working days).
Dividends and distributions
Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Acts,  the  Company  may  by ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not  exceeding  the  amount  recommended  by  the  Board.  The  Board  may  pay  interim  dividends  and  also  any  fixed  rate  dividends  whenever  the  financial position of the Company, in the opinion    of the Board, justifies its payment. If the Board acts in good faith,    it  is  not  liable  to  holders  of  shares  with  preferred  or  pari  passu  rights  for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on  other shares.
The  Board  may  withhold  payment  of  all  or  any  part  of  any  dividends  or  other  monies  payable  in  respect  of  the  Company’s  shares  from  a  person  with  a  0.25%  interest  (as  defined  in  the  Articles)  if  such  person  has  been  served  with  a  notice  under  Article  70  of  the  Articles  and  has  failed  to  provide  the  Company  with  information  concerning  interests  in  those  shares  required  to  be  provided  under  the  Companies  Acts.
Liquidation
Under the Articles on a liquidation, the liquidator may, with the  sanction of an extraordinary (or special) resolution of the Company  and any other sanction required by the Companies Acts, divide  amongst the members (excluding any members holding shares as  treasury shares) in kind, all or part of the assets of the Company  (whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or not).
Variation of rights
Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Acts,  the  rights  attached  to a class of shares may be varied or abrogated (whether or not the  Company  is  being  wound  up)  either  with  the  consent  in  writing  of  the  holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal amount of the  issued shares of that class (excluding any share    of that class held as treasury shares) or with the sanction of    an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting    of the holders of the issued shares of that class validly held in  accordance with article 69 and other relevant provisions of the  Articles. The Board may convene a meeting of the holders of    any class of shares whenever it thinks fit and whether or not the  business  to  be  transacted  involved  a  variation  or  abrogation  of  class  rights. Subject to the terms of issue of, or rights attached to, any  shares,  the  rights  or  privileges  attached  to  any  class  of  shares  shall  be  deemed  not  to  be  varied  or  abrogated  by  the  creation  or  issue  of  any  new  shares  ranking  pari  passu  in  all  respects  (save  as  to  the  date  from  which  such  new  shares  shall  rank  for  dividend)  with  or  subsequent  to  those already issued or by the reduction    of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or  redemption by the Company of its own shares in accordance    with the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles.
Transfer of shares
Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form    and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may    be transferred by means of a relevant system. Provisions of the  Articles do not apply to any uncertificated shares to the extent    that such provisions are inconsistent with the holding of shares    in uncertificated form or with the transfer of shares by means of    a  relevant  system.  Registration  of  a  transfer  of  an  uncertificated  share  may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated  Securities Regulations (as defined in the Articles) and where, in the  case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to  whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Directors’ report continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 Corporate governance
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his  certificated  shares  by  an  instrument  of  transfer  in  any  usual  form  or  in  any other form which the Board may approve. The instrument of  transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and (in  the case of a partly-paid share) the transferee. The transferor of a  share is deemed to remain the holder until the transferee’s name is  entered into the register. The Board may, in its absolute discretion  and  without  giving  any  reason,  decline  to  register  any  transfer  of  any  share  which  is  not  a  fully  paid  share.  The  Board  may  also  decline  to  register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of  transfer: (i) is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the  satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is  accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other  evidence  of  the  right  to  transfer  as  the  Board  may  reasonably  require;  (ii)  is  in  respect  of  only  one  class  of  share;  and  (iii)  if  joint  transferees,  is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
The  Board  may  decline  to  register  a  transfer  of  any  of  the  Company’s  certificated  shares  by  a  person  with  a  0.25%  interest  (as  defined  in  the  Articles) if such a person has been served with    a notice after failure to provide the Company with information  concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under  the  Companies  Acts,  unless  the  transfer  is  shown  to  the  Board  to  be  pursuant to an arm’s length sale.
Repurchase of shares
Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company  may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.  Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury  shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon  completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the  Company’s  issued  share  capital.  It  is  proposed  to  seek  shareholder  approval to maintain this authority for a further year at the  forthcoming Annual General Meeting (the ‘AGM’).
Amendments to the Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Articles of Association may be made in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by special  resolution.  A  resolution  will  be  put  to  the  AGM  to  amend  the  Articles.  The proposed changes to the Articles mainly derive from the  Companies  Act  2006  which  was  enacted  on  8  November  2006  and  is  being  implemented  in  stages.  Since  a  number  of  significant  changes  arising  from  the  Companies  Act  2006  will  not  come  into  force  until  at  least  October  2008,  the  Company  has  decided  at  this  stage  to  make  only a small number of changes to the Articles to reflect those  changes  which  will  already  be  in  force  when  this  year’s  AGM  is  held.  Details of the specific changes being proposed are set out in full in  the explanatory notes to the Notice of Meeting.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors  may  be  appointed  by  the  Company  by  ordinary  resolution  or  by  the  Board  and  shall  be  no  less  than  two.  A  Director  appointed  by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is  then eligible for election by the shareholders but is not taken into  account in determining the Directors, or the number of Directors,  who are to retire by rotation at that meeting. The Board may from  time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or  executive  office  for  such  period  (subject  to  the  Companies  Acts)  and  on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate  any such appointment. Currently under the Articles, no person is  incapable of being appointed a Director by reason of his having  reached  the  age  of  70  or  above.  No  Director  is  required  to  vacate  his  office because he has reached the age of 70 or above.
At  each  AGM  one-third  of  the  Directors  who  are  subject  to  retirement  by rotation or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the  number  nearest  to  but  not  less  than  one-third,  shall  retire  from  office  provided  that  if  there  are  fewer  than  three  Directors  who  are  subject  to retirement by rotation, one shall retire from office. If any one or  more Directors were last appointed or reappointed three years or  more  prior  to  the  meeting,  were  last  appointed  or  reappointed  at  the  third immediately preceding the AGM or, at the time of the meeting,  will have served more than eight years as a Non-executive Director  (excluding as Chairman of the Board), he or they shall retire from  office  and  shall  be  counted  in  obtaining  the  number  required  to  retire  at the meeting, provided that the number of Directors required to  retire shall be increased to the extent necessary to comply with the  Articles.
Power of the Directors
Subject  to  the  Company’s  Memorandum  of  Association,  the  Articles,  the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution,  the  business  of  the  Company  will  be  managed  by  the  Board  who  may  exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the  management  of  the  business  of  the  Company  or  not.  In  particular,  the  Board  may  exercise  all  the  powers  of  the  Company  to  borrow  money  and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets  and  uncalled  capital  and  to  issue  debentures  and  other  securities  and  to  give  security  for  any  debt,  liability  or  obligation  of  the  Company  to  any third party.
Shares held in the EBT
The trustees of the company employee benefit trust (‘EBT’)    may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT    as they think fit and in doing so may take into account both    financial and not financial interests of the beneficiaries of the    EBT or their dependants.
Significant agreements
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would  take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a  takeover bid.
Major shareholders
The substantial interests (3% or more) in the Company’s Ordinary  Share  capital  (voting  shares)  that  have  been  notified  to  the  Company  are set out on page 58.  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 62 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in  relation  to  the  Group  financial  statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report    and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable  United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting  Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The  Directors  are  required  to  prepare  Group  financial  statements  for  each financial year which present fairly the financial position    of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of    the Group for that period. In preparing those Group financial  statements the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8:  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors  and then apply them consistently;
present information, including accounting policies, in a    manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and  understandable information;
provide  additional  disclosures  when  compliance  with  the  specific  requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to  understand the impact of particular transactions, other events  and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial  performance; and
state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to    any  material  departures  disclosed  and  explained  in  the  financial  statements.
The  Directors  are  responsible  for  keeping  proper  accounting  records  which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial  position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group  financial  statements  comply  with  the  Companies  Act  1985  and  Article  4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding  the  assets  of  the  Group  and  hence  for  taking  reasonable  steps  for  the  prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of  approving the Directors’ report are listed on page 57. Having made  enquiries  of  fellow  Directors  and  of  the  Company’s  auditors,  each  of  these Directors confirms that:
to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no  information  (that  is,  information  needed  by  the  Group’s  auditors  in connection with preparing their report) of which the  Company’s auditors are unaware; and
each  Director  has  taken  all  the  steps  a  Director  might  reasonably  be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit  information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are  aware of that information.
•
•
•
•
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63
Independent auditors’ report
We  have  audited  the  Group  and  parent  company  financial  statements  of  Ferrexpo  plc  for  the  year  ended  31  December  2007  which  comprise  the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group  Cash  Flow  Statement,  the  Group  Statement  of  Changes  in  Equity,  the  related  notes  1  to  47  and  the  Parent  Company  Balance  Sheet.  These  Group financial statements have been prepared under the  accounting policies set out therein.
We  have  also  audited  the  information  in  the  Directors’  Remuneration  Report that is described as having been audited.
This  report  is  made  solely  to  the  Company’s  members,  as  a  body,  in  accordance  with  section  235  of  the  Companies  Act  1985.  Our  audit  work  has  been  undertaken  so  that  we  might  state  to  the  Company’s  members those matters we are required to state to them in an  auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent  permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to  anyone  other  than  the  Company  and  the  Company’s  members  as  a  body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have  formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and  the  Group  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  applicable  United  Kingdom  law  and  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRSs)  as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent  company financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration  Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and  Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted  Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’  Responsibilities.
Our  responsibility  is  to  audit  the  Group  financial  statements  and  the  part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in  accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and  International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial    statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report    to be audited give a true and fair view and whether the financial  statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the  Companies  Act  1985,  in  addition,  the  Group  financial  statements  have  been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS  Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information    given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial  statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report    includes that specific information presented in the Operating    and  Financial  Review  that  is  cross  referred  from  the  Business  Review  section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has    not kept proper accounting records, we have not received all    the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if  information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration    and other transactions is not disclosed.
We  review  whether  the  Corporate  Governance  Statement  reflects  the  Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006  Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of    the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.    We  are  not  required  to  consider  whether  the  Board’s  statements  on  internal  control  cover  all  risks  and  controls,  or  form  an  opinion  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  Group’s  corporate  governance  procedures  or  its  risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report    and  consider  whether  it  is  consistent  with  the  audited  Group  financial  statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’  Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Operating and Financial  Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.    We consider the implications for our report if we become aware    of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with    the  Group  financial  statements.  Our  responsibilities  do  not  extend  to  any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  International  Standards  on  Auditing  (UK  and  Ireland)  issued  by  the  Auditing  Practices  Board.  An  audit  includes  examination,  on  a  test  basis,  of  evidence  relevant  to  the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  Group  financial  statements.  It  also  includes  an  assessment  of  the  significant  estimates  and  judgements  made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial  statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate  to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied  and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the  information and explanations which we considered necessary in  order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable  assurance  that  the  financial  statements  and  the  part  of  the  Directors’  Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material  misstatement,  whether  caused  by  fraud  or  other  irregularity  or  error.  In  forming  our  opinion  we  also  evaluated  the  overall  adequacy  of  the  presentation of information in the financial statements and the part  of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in  accordance  with  IFRSs  as  adopted  by  the  European  Union,  of  the  state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its  profit for the year then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in  accordance  with  the  Companies  Act  1985  and  Article  4  of  the  IAS  Regulation;  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair  view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted  Accounting  Practice,  of  the  state  of  the  parent  company’s  affairs  as at 31 December 2007;  the parent company financial statements and the part of the  Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been  properly  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  Companies  Act  1985;  and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with  the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
8 April 2008
Notes
1  The  maintenance  and  integrity  of  the  Ferrexpo  plc  website  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Directors;  the  work  carried  out  by  the  auditors  does  not  involve  consideration  of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any  changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were  initially presented on the website.
2  Legislation  in  the  United  Kingdom  governing  the  preparation  and  dissemination  of  financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
•
•
•
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 64 Financial statements
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  Notes  31.12.07 31.12.06
Revenue                  5  698,216  547,310
Cost  of  sales                  6 (335,936)  (296,720)
Gross profit                     362,280  250,590
Selling  and  distribution  expenses                7  (100,614)  (86,376)
General  and  administrative  expenses                8 (44,308) (41,140)
Other  income                  9  4,844  2,583
Other  expenses                   10  (5,096)  (5,078)
Operating profit from continuing operations before adjusted items            217,106 120,579
Write-offs  and  impairment  losses                 11  (1,568)  (2,205)
Share  of  gains  of  associates                  20 687  –
Net  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiary                12  –  (3,524)
Gain  on  disposal  of  available-for-sale  investment              12 4,714  –
Initial  public  offering  costs                  13  (34,004)  –
Profit before tax and finance                 186,935  114,850
Finance  income                  14  3,242  2,326
Finance  expense                  14  (25,950)  (32,655)
Foreign  exchange  loss                  14 (3,467)  (3,784)
Profit before tax                       160,760  80,737
Tax                  15  (26,725)  (14,758)
Profit for the year                    134,035  65,979
Attributable  to:
Equity  shareholders  of  Ferrexpo  plc                  124,076 63,578
Minority  interest                  9,959  2,401
                    134,035  65,979
Earnings  per  share:
Basic  (US  cents)                  16 20.41   10.47  Diluted  (US  cents)                  16  20.33 10.47
Dividends:      Proposed  ordinary  dividend  per  share  (US  cents)              16  3.2  –  Proposed  ordinary  dividend  (US$000)                16  19,449  –
Consolidated income statement Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65 Financial statements
                    As at   As  at
US$000                  Notes 31.12.07 31.12.06
Assets
Property,  plant  and  equipment                  18  364,545 301,343
Goodwill  and  other  intangible  assets                 19  156,827  156,534
Investments  in  associates                  20 17,637  16,950
Available-for-sale  financial  assets                21 47,134  34,641
Other  non-current  assets                  22  15,179  916
Deferred  tax  asset                  35 8,107  –
Total non-current assets                   609,429 510,384
Inventories                  23  56,545  48,487
Trade  and  other  receivables                  24 43,575  58,284
Prepayments  and  other  current  assets                25 10,773  17,118
Income  taxes  recoverable  and  prepaid                   5,350  1,424
Other  taxes  recoverable  and  prepaid                26  52,362  42,489
Available-for-sale  financial  assets                21  2,941  1,451
Short  term  deposits  with  banks                  27  – 11,043
Cash  and  cash  equivalents                   28 86,966 16,236
Total current assets                     258,512 196,532
Total assets                    867,941 706,916
Equity and liabilities
Share  capital                  29  121,628  –
Share  premium                  29  188,566  –
Other  reserves                  29  14,258  137,482
Retained  earnings                  216,616  163,164
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent               541,068  300,646
Minority interest                    45,854  36,146
Total equity                     586,922  336,792
Interest  bearing  loans  and  borrowings                31  146,091 204,732
Trade  and  other  payables                  32  2,583  10,484
Defined  benefit  pension  liability                 33  16,169  14,501
Shares  redemption  liability                   30  –  9,062
Provision  for  site  restoration                  34  1,746  402
Deferred  tax  liability                  35  1,025  2,535
Total non-current liabilities                    167,614  241,716
Interest  bearing  loans  and  borrowings                 31  54,537  81,243
Trade  and  other  payables                   32  25,127  21,492
Accrued  liabilities  and  deferred  income                36  13,812  17,986
Shares  redemption  liability                   30  10,036  –
Income  taxes  payable                    7,717  4,646
Other  taxes  payable                    2,176  3,041
Total current liabilities                     113,405  128,408
Total liabilities                     281,019 370,124
Total equity and liabilities                    867,941  706,916
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 April 2008.
Mike Oppenheimer Chris Mawe
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
Consolidated balance sheet Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 66 Financial statements
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  Notes 31.12.07    31.12.06
Net cash flows from operating activities             38 188,846  68,300
Cash flows from investing activities      Purchase  of  property,  plant  and  equipment              (104,352) (48,760)
Proceeds  from  sale  of  property,  plant  and  equipment             1,896  374
Purchase  of  intangible  assets                     (435)  (745)
Deposits  lodged  at  banks                  9,011  8,732
Purchases  of  available-for-sale  securities                  (12,126) (3,119)
Proceeds  from  sale  of  financial  assets                5,704  2,408
Interest  received                    4,805  1,473
Dividends  received                    –  17
Acquisition  of  minority  interest  in  subsidiaries              37  –  (231,945)
Acquisition  of  associates                    –  (16,950)
Loans  provided  to  related  parties                  –  (16,674)
Loans  provided  to  associates                    (5,000)  –
Loans  repaid  by  related  parties                   –  123,457
Proceeds  from  disposal  of  subsidiaries                  –  4,338
Net cash flows used in investing activities             (100,497)  (177,394)
Cash flows from financing activities      Proceeds  from  borrowings  and  finance                 175,244 565,593
Repayment  of  borrowings  and  finance                (276,084)  (512,819)
Dividends  paid  to  minority  interest                  (786)  (245)
Distribution  under  50/50  tax  ruling                (5,000)  (31,521)
Proceeds  from  issue  of  share  capital  in  Ferrexpo  AG              37  –  109,329
Proceeds from issue of share capital in Ferrexpo plc:
   Initial  public  offering  proceeds                   202,072  –
   Non-initial  public  offering  proceeds                  99  –
Initial  public  offering  costs                    (48,648) (7,503)
Share  buyback  in  previous  parent                37  (64,055)  –
Net cash flows from financing activities                   (17,158) 122,834
Net  increase  in  cash  and  cash  equivalents               71,191  13,740
Cash  and  cash  equivalents  at  the  beginning  of  the  year             16,236  2,496
Currency  translation  differences                (461)  –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year             28 86,966  16,236
Consolidated cash flow statement  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67 Financial statements
  Attributable  to  equity  shareholders  of  the  parent
      Employee      Net        Benefit  Uniting  of  Revalu-  unrealised  Trans-
  Issued   Share  Trust  interest  ation  gains  lation  Retained  Total  Minority
US$000  capital   premium  reserve  reserve  reserve  reserve  reserve  earnings  reserves  interests  Total  equity
At 31 December 2005 – – – 27,967 2,453 – 186 117,548 148,154 107,756 255,910
Profit  for  the  year  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  63,578  63,578  2,401  65,979
Total income and expense
 for the year recognised 
 in equity –  –  –  –  –  –  –  63,578  63,578  2,401  65,979
Items recognised directly
 in equity:       
Distribution  under    50/50   tax  ruling  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (21,190)  (21,190)  –  (21,190)
Acquisition  of  minority  interest    through   capital  increase  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (72,673)  (72,673)
Equity  dividends  paid  by    subsidiary   undertakings    to   minority  shareholders  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (563)  (563)
Proceeds  from  issue  of  share    capital   in  Ferrexpo  AG  –  –  –  109,329  –  –  –  –  109,329  –  109,329
Reversal  of  revaluation  relating    to   previously  held  interest  in    Vostock   Ruda  LLC,  upon    acquisition   of  a  controlling
  interest   –  –  –  –  (2,453)  –  –  3,228  775  (775)  –
At 31 December 2006 – – – 137,296 – – 186 163,164 300,646 36,146 336,792
Deferred  Tax  on      transaction   costs  –  5,179  –  –  –  –  –  –  5,179  –  5,179
Revaluation  of      available-for-sale   assets  –  –  –  –  –  2,384  –  –  2,384  –  2,384
Profit  for  the  year  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  124,076  124,076  9,959  134,035
Total income and expense 
 for the year recognised 
 in equity –  5,179  –  –  –  2,384  –  124,076  131,639  9,959  141,598
Items recognised directly
 in equity:
Distribution  under  50/50    tax   ruling  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (6,569)  (6,569)  –  (6,569)
Equity  dividends  paid  by    subsidiary   undertakings  to    minority   shareholders  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (251)  (251)
Share  issue  in  parent    company   121,628  215,275  –  –  –  –  –  –  336,903  –  336,903
Transaction  costs    associated   with  issue    of   shares  (note  13)  –  (31,888)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (31,888)  –  (31,888)
Uniting  of  interest  elimination  –  –  –  (105,516)  –  –  –  –  (105,516)  –  (105,516)
Share  buyback  of    previous   parent  of    the   Group  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (64,055)  (64,055)  –  (64,055)
Shares  issued  to  Employee    Benefit   Trust  (note  29)  –  –  (29,216)  –  –  –  –  –  (29,216)  –  (29,216)
Share-based  payments      (note   43)  –  –  9,124  –  –  –  –  –  9,124  –  9,124
At 31 December 2007 121,628 188,566 (20,092) 31,780 – 2,384 186 216,616 541,068 45,854 586,922
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 68 Financial statements
Note 1: Corporate information
Organisation and operation
The consolidated historical information for Ferrexpo plc in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 was approved by the Board of  Directors on 8 April 2008.
Ferrexpo  plc  is  a  company  incorporated  in  the  United  Kingdom.  Ferrexpo  plc’s  registered  office  is  2-4  King  Street,  London  SW1Y  6QL,  UK.  Ferrexpo  plc  and  its  subsidiaries  (the  ‘Group’)  operate  a  mine  and  processing  plant  near  Kremenchuk  in  Ukraine.  The  Group’s  operations  are  vertically  integrated  from  iron  ore  mining  through  to  iron  ore  concentrate  and  pellet  production.  The  Group’s  mineral  properties  lie  within  the  Kremenchuk  Magnetic  Anomaly  and  are  currently  being  exploited  at  the  Gorishne-Plavninsky  and  Lavrikovsky  deposits.  These  deposits  are  being jointly mined as one mining complex.
The  Group’s  operations  are  largely  conducted  through  Ferrexpo  plc’s  principal  subsidiary,  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation.  The  Group  is  comprised of Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below:
      Equity        interest  owned
      at  31  December
      2007  2006  Name  Country  of  incorporation  Principal  activity  %  %
Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation
1
  Ukraine  Iron  ore  mining  and  processing  85.9  85.9
Ferrexpo  AG
2
  Switzerland  Sale  of  iron  ore  pellets  100.0  100.0
DP  Ferrotrans
3
  Ukraine  Trade,  transportation  services  100.0  100.0
United  Energy  Company  LLC
3
  Ukraine  Holding  company  100.0  100.0
Ferrexpo  UK  Limited
1
  England  Finance  100.0  100.0
Ferrexpo  Services  Limited
1
  Ukraine  Management  services  and  procurement  100.0  100.0
1   The Group’s interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo AG.
 2   DFerrexpo AG was the holding company of the Group until, as a result of the pre-IPO restructuring, Ferrexpo plc became the holding company on 24 May 2007.
3 The Group’s interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
On  24  May  2007,  Ferrexpo  plc  allotted  and  issued  533,043,489  ordinary  shares  in  the  Company  at  a  par  value  of  £0.10  each  (‘Ordinary  Shares’)  (£53,304,349 (US$105,515,959)) to Fevamotinico Sàrl in exchange for 129,944,923 registered shares of CHF1 each in the capital of Ferrexpo AG.  Pursuant to such transaction, Ferrexpo plc became the sole shareholder of Ferrexpo AG.
As  this  transaction  involved  the  combination  of  businesses  under  common  control,  the  pooling  of  interests  method  of  accounting  has  been  applied  in  the  presentation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  for  the  years  ended  31  December  2007  and  31  December  2006,  which  present  the  results  of  the  Group  as  if  Ferrexpo  plc  had  always  been  the  parent  company  of  the  Group.  The  last  filed  accounts  of  Ferrexpo  plc  qualified for exemption from audit under section 249AA of the Companies Act 1985 as it was dormant during the period. The last filed  accounts  of  Ferrexpo  AG  (the  previous  consolidated  Group  accounts)  contained  an  unqualified  audit  opinion,  and  no  statements  equivalent  to  section  237(2)  or  section  237(3)  under  the  Companies  Act  1985.  Such  statements  are  required  to  be  made  by  the  auditors  where  inadequate  accounting records have been kept.
On 15 June 2007, the Company’s Ordinary Shares were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading    on the London Stock Exchange. The global offer comprised 152,097,932 Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.40, of which 72,527,361    new Ordinary Shares each were issued by the Company (US$14,433,743) and 79,570,571 were Ordinary Shares sold by the existing shareholder.  Gross proceeds of £101,538,305 (US$202,072,397) were received by the Company following the issue of the new    Ordinary Shares.
A historic share purchase and sale transaction in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation shares, the amount of which following dilution now  represents  less  than  25%  of  the  issued  share  capital  of  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation,  is  the  subject  of  an  ongoing  legal  challenge  that  commenced  in November  2005, and  was  initially  dismissed  by the  Ukrainian  Supreme  Court  in April 2006,  but  has  recently  been recommenced  in  a  lower  court.  The  plaintiff,  a  party  to  the  disputed  transaction,  initiated  legal  proceedings  in  the  Ukrainian  courts  seeking  to  invalidate  the  original  share  sale  and  purchase  agreement.  The  plaintiff  claims  that  the  agreement  was  not  executed  in  accordance  with  Ukrainian  legislation.  No  remediation  or  damage  has  been  claimed.  In  the  event  of  the  claim  succeeding  and  being  upheld  on  appeal  and  the  issued  share  capital  being  transferred  to  the  plaintiff,  the  Group  will  retain  control  of  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation.  Neither  the  Company,  nor  the  majority  beneficial  owner  nor  any  of  the  Group’s  subsidiary  undertakings  are  involved  in  the  legal  proceedings.  Management,  having  taken  appropriate  legal advice, believe that the claim is without merit and consider that there is a remote likelihood that the Group’s ownership of the related  interest in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation will be successfully challenged and that the Group will not suffer material financial costs in  connection with this matter.
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries has been prepared in accordance with International Financial  Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’). IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued  by  the  International  Accounting  Standards  Board  (‘IASB’).  However,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  for  the  years  presented  would  be  no  different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated historical financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and  available-for-sale financial instruments, the latter are measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 ‘Financial  instruments:  recognition  and  measurement’,  the  former  measured  in  accordance  with  IAS  19  ‘Employee  benefits’.  The  consolidated  historical  financial information is presented in US dollars thousands and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise  indicated.
Notes to the consolidated financial information Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 69 Financial statements
Changes in accounting policy
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows:
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption  of  these  revised  standards  and  interpretations  did  not  have  any  effect  on  the  financial  performance  or  position  of  the  Group  in  the  current or prior periods. In certain cases, they did however give rise to additional disclosures.  IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
IAS 1 Amendment – ‘Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures’
IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’
IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’
IFRIC 10 ‘Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment’
The Group has also early adopted the following IFRIC interpretation. Adoption of this interpretation did not have any effect on the financial  performance or position of the Group.  IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions’
The principal effects of these changes are as follows:
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
This  standard  requires  disclosures  that  enable  users  of  the  financial  statements  to  evaluate  the  significance  of  the  Group’s  financial  instruments  and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments. The new disclosures are included throughout    the  financial  statements.  While  there  has  been  no  effect  on  the  financial  position  or  results,  comparative  information  has  been  revised  where  necessary.  IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
This  amendment  requires  the  Group  to  make  new  disclosures  to  enable  users  of  the  financial  statements  to  evaluate  the  Group’s  objectives,  policies and processes for managing capital. These new disclosures are shown in the capital management section of note 3.  IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’
This  interpretation  requires  IFRS  2  to  be  applied  to  any  arrangements  in  which  the  entity  cannot  identify  specifically  some  or  all  of  the  goods  received,  in  particular  where  equity  instruments  are  issued  for  consideration  which  appears  to  be  less  than  fair  value.  As  equity  instruments  are  only issued to employees in accordance with the employee share scheme, the interpretation has no impact on the financial position or  performance of the Group.
IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’
IFRIC  9  states  that  the  date  to  assess  the  existence  of  an  embedded  derivative  is  the  date  that  an  entity  first  becomes  a  party  to  the  contract,  with  reassessment  only  if  there  is  a  change  to  the  contract  that  significantly  modifies  the  cash  flows.  As  the  Group  has  no  embedded  derivative  requiring  separation  from  the  host  contract,  the  interpretation  has  no  impact  on  the  financial  position  or  performance  of  the  Group,  but  our  accounting policy for such items has been amended accordingly.
IFRIC 10 ‘Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment’
The Group adopted IFRIC 10 as of 1 January 2007, which requires that an entity must not reverse an impairment loss recognised in    a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.    As the Group had no impairment losses previously reversed, the interpretation had no impact on the financial position or performance    of the Group.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated historical financial information comprises the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at    31 December each year. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plc’s,    using consistent accounting policies.  All inter-company balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.  Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.  Business combinations
Subsidiaries  acquired  are  fully  consolidated  from  the  date  of  acquisition,  being  the  date  on  which  the  Group  obtains  effective  control  and  are  accounted  for  using  the  purchase  method  of  accounting.  Similarly,  disposals  of  subsidiaries  are  deconsolidated  from  the  date  on  which  the  Group ceases to hold effective control.
Subsidiaries acquired from entities under common control, such that the ultimate controlling party has not changed as a result of the  transaction,  are  fully  consolidated  from  the  earliest  period  presented,  but  not  before  the  date  that  they  came  under  common  control,  and  are  accounted  for  using  the  pooling  of  interests  method  of  accounting  whereby  net  assets  are  pooled  at  their  historic  carrying  value.  The  principal  impact of this has been in the accounting for Ferrexpo plc’s interest in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.  •
•
•
•
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 70 Financial statements
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries 
The  Group  adopted  the  parent  extension  concept  method  of  accounting  for  changes  in  ownership  interest  in  subsidiaries.  The  differences  between the carrying values of net assets attributable to interests in subsidiaries acquired (or disposed of) and the consideration given (or  received) for such increases are recorded as goodwill.
Functional currency
Based  on  the  economic  substance  of  the  underlying  events  and  circumstances  relevant  to  the  parent,  the  functional  currency  of  the  parent  has  been determined to be the US dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency. The Group has chosen    the US dollar as its presentation currency.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions  in  foreign  currencies  are  recorded  at  the  rate  ruling  at  the  date  of  the  transaction.  Monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in  foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date    and  non-monetary  assets  and  liabilities  at  the  historic  rate.  Foreign  exchange  differences  arising  on  translation  are  recognised  in  the  income  statement.
The following exchange rates have been applied:
                At    At
              Average  31 December  Average  31  December
Currency  rates  (US$1)                2007  2007    2006   2006
Ukrainian  hyrivna               5.050 5.050 5.050  5.050
If  the  functional  currency  of  a  subsidiary  is  different  to  the  functional  currency  of  the  parent  as  at  the  reporting  date,  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  this entity are translated into the parent’s functional currency at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date and the income statement is  translated using the average exchange rate for the period. The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to    a  separate  component  of  equity.  On  disposal  of  a  foreign  entity  the  deferred  cumulative  amount  recognised  in  equity  relating  to  the  particular  foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Use of estimates
The preparation of historical financial information in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions    that  affect  the  amounts  reported  in  the  historical  financial  information  and  accompanying  notes.  These  estimates  are  based  on  information  available as at the date of authorising the historical financial information for issue. Actual results, therefore, could differ    from those estimates.
  In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing    the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes:
Note 15  –   Income tax expense
Note 18  –  Property, plant and equipment
Note 21  –  Available-for-sale financial assets
Note 33  –  Defined benefit pension liability
Note 34  –  Provision for site restoration
Note 35   –  Deferred income tax
Note 41   –  Commitments and contingencies
Investments in associates
The  Group’s  investments  in  associates  are  accounted  for  under  the  equity  method  of  accounting.  An  associate  is  an  entity  in  which  the  Group  has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.  Under  the  equity  method,  the  investment  in  the  associate  is  carried  in  the  balance  sheet  at  cost  plus  post-acquisition  changes  in  the  Group’s  share of net assets of the associate. Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and    is  not  amortised.  After  application  of  the  equity  method,  the  Group  determines  whether  it  is  necessary  to  recognise  any  additional  impairment  loss  with  respect  to  the  Group’s  net  investment  in  the  associate.  The  income  statement  reflects  the  share  of  the  results  of  operations  of  the  associate.  Where  there  has  been  a  change  recognised  directly  in  the  equity  of  the  associate,  the  Group  recognises  its  share  of  any  changes  and  discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
The reporting dates of the associate and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associate’s accounting policies conform to those used by    the Group.
Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Non-derivative financial instruments
Non-derivative  financial  instruments  comprise  investments  in  equity  and  debt  securities  (promissory  notes),  trade  and  other  receivables,  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  loans  and  borrowings  and  trade  and  other  payables.  Non-derivative  financial  instruments  are  recognised  at  fair  value  (being the fair value of the consideration given or received) plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71 Financial statements
All  regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  financial  assets  are  recognised  on  the  trade  date  i.e.  the  date  that  the  Group  commits  to  purchase  or  sell  the asset. Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or  convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial asset as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.  Loans and receivables
Loans  and  receivables  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  that  are  not  quoted  in  an  active  market.  Such  assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and  receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets
All  investments,  except  for  investments  in  associates  are  available  for  sale.  Available  for  sale  financial  assets  are  those  non-derivative  financial  assets  that  are  designated  as  available  for  sale  or  are  not  classified  as  either  loans  or  receivables,  or  held  to  maturity  investments  or  financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  and  loss.  After  initial  recognition  available-for-sale  financial  assets  are  measured  at  fair  value  with  gains  or  losses being recognised directly in equity.  The  fair  value  of  investments  that  are  actively  traded  in  organised  financial  markets  is  determined  by  reference  to  quoted  market  bid  prices  at  the  close  of  business  on  the  balance  sheet  date.  For  investments  where  there  is  no  active  market,  the  fair  value  is  determined  using  discounted  cash flow analysis.
Other
Other  non-derivative  financial  instruments  are  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest  method  less  any  impairment  losses.
Share capital
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised  as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Employee Benefit Trust reserve
Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves, as ‘Employee Benefit Trust reserves’ and recognised at cost.  Consideration  received  for  the  sale  of  such  shares  is  also  recognised  in  equity,  with  any  difference  between  the  proceeds  from  sale  and  the  original cost taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Shares redemption liability
The Group’s contractual obligation to purchase its own equity instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the  redemption  amount.  When  the  financial  liability  is  recognised  initially  under  IAS  39,  its  fair  value  is  reclassified  from  equity.  Subsequently,  the  financial liability is carried as a long term liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
Trade and other payables
Trade  and  other  payables  are  recognised  and  initially  measured  at  cost.  Subsequently,  instruments  with  a  fixed  maturity  are  remeasured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest  rate  method.  Amortised  cost  is  calculated  by  taking  into  account  any  transaction  costs  and  any  discount or premium on settlement. Financial liabilities which do not have a fixed maturity are subsequently carried at fair value.  Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All  loans  and  borrowings  are  initially  recognised  at  the  fair  value  of  the  consideration  received  less  directly  attributable  transaction  costs.  After  initial  recognition,  interest  bearing  loans  and  borrowings  are  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest  method.  Gains  and  losses  are  recognised  in  the  income  statement  when  the  liabilities  are  derecognised  as  well  as  through  the  amortisation  process.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If  there  is  objective  evidence  that  an  impairment  loss  on  loans  and  receivables  carried  at  amortised  cost  has  been  incurred,  the  amount  of  the  loss  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows  (excluding  future  credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate  computed  at  initial  recognition).  The  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  shall  be  reduced  either  directly  or  through  use  of  an  allowance  account.  The  amount of the loss shall be recognised in the income statement.
The  Group  first  assesses  whether  objective  evidence  of  impairment  exists  individually  for  financial  assets  that  are  individually  significant,  and  individually  or  collectively  for  financial  assets  that  are  not  individually  significant.  If  it  is  determined  that  no  objective  evidence  of  impairment  exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar  credit  risk  characteristics  and  that  group  of  financial  assets  is  collectively  assessed  for  impairment.  Assets  that  are  individually  assessed  for  impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 72 Financial statements
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued
If,  in  a  subsequent  period,  the  amount  of  the  impairment  loss  decreases  and  the  decrease  can  be  related  objectively  to  an  event  occurring  after  the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is  recognised  in  the  income  statement  to  the  extent  that  the  carrying  value  of  the  asset  does  not  exceed  its  amortised  cost  at  the  reversal  date.
Available-for-sale financial assets
If  an  available-for-sale  asset  is  impaired,  an  amount  comprising  the  difference  between  its  cost  (net  of  any  principal  payment  and  amortisation)  and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income  statement. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the income statement.  Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS (hereinafter referred to as ‘the cost’) less  accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an  appropriate proportion of production overheads.   Upon  recognition,  items  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  divided  into  components,  which  represent  items  with  a  significant  value  that  can  be  allocated  to  a  separate  depreciation  period.  Overhaul  costs  also  represent  a  component  of  an  asset.  Assets  are  initially  recognised  in  assets under construction and then transferred to the appropriate categories on completion.
Major  spare  parts  and  stand-by  equipment  qualify  as  property,  plant  and  equipment  when  they  are  expected  to  be  used  during  more  than  one period.  Expenditure  incurred  after  the  properties  have  been  put  into  operation,  such  as  repairs  and  maintenance  and  overhaul  costs,  are  normally  charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred. In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that    the expenditures result in future economic benefits, the expenditures are capitalised as an additional cost.
Each item’s estimated useful life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically  recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located. Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis    for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items. Changes in estimates, which affect unit of  production  calculations,  are  accounted  for  prospectively.  Depreciation  commences  when  the  item  is  available  for  use.  Neither  freehold  land  nor assets under construction are depreciated.  Except  for  mining  assets  which  are  depreciated  using  the  unit  of  production  method,  depreciation  is  calculated  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows:
Buildings  20–50 years
Plant and equipment  5–15 years
Vehicles  7–15 years
Fixtures and fittings  2.5–10 years
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise    from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the    net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Mining assets
Mining  assets  comprise  of  mine  exploration,  evaluation  and  development  costs  incurred  up  to  the  commencement  of  production.  Stripping  work comprises overburden removed at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages. Pre-production and mine extension  related stripping work are capitalised. Production stage stripping work is expensed.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised but rather tested annually for impairment. Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating unit expected to benefit  from  the  related  business  combination  for  the  purpose  of  the  impairment  testing.  Where  the  recoverable  amount  of  the  cash-generating  unit  is  less  than  its  carrying  amount  including  goodwill  an  impairment  loss  is  recognised  in  the  income  statement.  Management  consider  that  there  is only one identifiable cash generating unit applicable to Ferrexpo plc, being the mining, production and sale of iron-ore pellets from the  Ukrainian mine. As such the assessment of the carrying valued and the recoverable amount is initially made with reference to    the  market  capitalisation  of  the  Group  and  Group  net  assets.  If  this  then  shows  indications  of  impairment  a  value  in  use  calculation  is  made.  An  impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
To the extent that the fair value of the acquired entity’s identifiable assets and liabilities is greater than the cost of investment, a gain is  recognised immediately in the income statement.  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 73 Financial statements
Other intangible assets
Other  intangible  assets,  including  mineral  licences,  which  are  acquired  by  the  Group  and  which  have  finite  useful  lives,  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Mineral licence acquisition costs are amortised on a unit of production basis.  Impairment of non-financial assets 
The  Group  assesses  at  each  reporting  date  whether  there  is  an  indication  that  an  asset  may  be  impaired.  If  any  such  indication  exists,  or  when  annual  impairment  testing  for  an  asset  is  required,  the  Group  makes  an  estimate  of  the  asset’s  recoverable  amount.  An  asset’s  recoverable  amount  is  the  higher  of  an  asset’s  or  cash-generating  unit’s  fair  value  less  costs  to  sell  and  its  value  in  use  and  is  determined  for  an  individual  asset,  unless  the  asset  does  not  generate  cash  inflows  that  are  largely  independent  of  those  from  other  assets  or  groups  of  assets.  Where  the  carrying  amount  of  an  asset  exceeds  its  recoverable  amount,  the  asset  is  considered  impaired  and  is  written  down  to  its  recoverable  amount.  In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects  current  market  assessments  of  the  time  value  of  money  and  the  risks  specific  to  the  asset.  Impairment  losses  of  continuing  operations  are  recognised in the income statement.  An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no  longer  exist  or  may  have  decreased.  If  such  indication  exists,  the  recoverable  amount  is  estimated.  A  previously  recognised  impairment  loss  is  reversed  only  if  there  has  been  a  change  in  the  estimates  used  to  determine  the  asset’s  recoverable  amount  since  the  last  impairment  loss  was  recognised.  If  that  is  the  case  the  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  is  increased  to  its  recoverable  amount.  That  increased  amount  cannot  exceed  the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior  years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement. After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to  allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
Raw materials – cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished  goods  and  work  in  progress  –  cost  of  direct  materials  and  labour  and  a  proportion  of  production  overheads  based  on  normal  operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs.
Net  realisable  value  is  the  estimated  selling  price  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business,  less  estimated  costs  of  completion  and  the  estimated  costs  necessary to make the sale.
Site restoration costs
Site  restoration  provisions  are  made  in  respect  of  the  estimated  future  costs  of  closure  and  restoration  and  for  environmental  rehabilitation  costs  (determined  by  an  independent  expert)  in  the  accounting  period  when  the  related  environmental  disturbance  occurs.  The  provision  is  discounted where material and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs. At the time of establishing the provision, a  corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which    it relates.  The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
Pension obligations and other employee benefits
The  Group  makes  defined  contributions  to  the  Ukrainian  state  pension  scheme  at  the  statutory  rates  in  effect  during  the  year,  based  on  gross  salary payments; such expense is charged in the period the related salaries are earned.
In  addition,  the  Group  has  a  legal  obligation  to  compensate  the  Ukrainian  State  Pension  Fund  for  additional  pensions  paid  to  certain  categories  of  the  current  and  former  employees  of  the  Group.  These  obligations  being  unfunded  are  substantially  similar  to  those  typically  existing  under  an unfunded defined benefit plan.
The Group also makes contributions to the defined benefit pension fund for employees in Ferrexpo AG.
Costs relating to both plans are accrued in the historical financial information using the projected unit credit method in respect of those  employees  entitled  to  such  payments.  Management  uses  actuarial  techniques  in  calculating  the  liability  related  to  this  retirement  obligation  at  each balance sheet date. Actual results could vary from estimates made to date.
Gains and losses resulting from the use of external actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised  actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of the defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans and the lower of planned    assets/obligations  for  funded  schemes.  These  gains  or  losses  are  recognised  as  income  or  expense  over  the  expected  average  remaining  working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 74 Financial statements
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued
The  past  service  cost  is  recognised  as  an  expense  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  average  period  until  the  benefits  vest.  If  the  benefits  are  already  vested  immediately  following  the  introduction  of,  or  changes  to,  a  pension  plan,  the  past  service  cost  is  recognised  immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not  recognised reduced by the past service cost not yet recognised.  Revenue recognition
Revenue  is  recognised  to  the  extent  that  it  is  probable  that  economic  benefits  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  revenue  can  be  reliably  measured.  Revenue  from  sale  of  goods,  including  pellet  and  other  sales,  is  recognised  when  the  significant  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership  of  the  goods  have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue  is  measured  at  the  fair  value  of  the  consideration  received  or  receivable  and  represents  amounts  receivable  for  goods  provided  in  the  normal  course  of  business,  net  of  discounts  and  sales  taxes.  Risks  and  rewards  of  the  ownership  of  goods  passes  when  title  for  the  goods  passes  to  the  customer.  This  is  determined  by  the  terms  of  the  sales  agreement.  Typically,  sales  are  made  FOB  (‘Free  On  Board’),  CIF  (‘Cargo  Insurance and Freight’) or DAF (‘Delivery At Frontier’).  Other  sales  include  the  processing  and  sale  of  ore  and  ore  concentrate,  sale  of  parts,  materials  and  crushed  rocks  and  repair  and  rental  of  railway wagons.
Finance income and expense
Finance  income  comprises  interest  income  on  funds  invested.  Interest  income  is  recognised  in  the  income  statement  as  it  accrues  using  the  effective interest method.  Finance  expense  comprises  interest  expense  on  borrowings,  unwinding  of  the  discount  on  provisions  and  impairment  losses  recognised  on  financial assets.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Taxes
Current income tax
Current  tax  assets  and  liabilities  for  the  current  and  prior  periods  are  measured  at  the  amount  expected  to  be  recovered  from  or  paid  to  the  taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the  balance sheet date.
Swiss tax 50/50 ruling
Under  the  Swiss  tax  50/50  ruling  a  qualifying  company  can  distribute  a  percentage  of  its  profits  free  of  tax.  Ferrexpo  AG  (the  former  group  holding  company),  under  its  former  ownership,  qualified  to  make  such  distributions.  The  company  ceased  to  qualify  for  this  treatment  upon  reorganisation of the Group, when Ferrexpo plc became the parent company of the Group, on 24 May 2007.
Deferred income tax
Deferred  income  tax  is  provided  using  the  liability  method  on  temporary  differences  at  the  balance  sheet  date  between  the  tax  bases  of  assets  and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except:
where  the  deferred  tax  liability  arises  from  the  initial  recognition  of  goodwill  or  of  an  asset  or  liability  in  a  transaction  that  is  not  a  business  combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
in  respect  of  taxable  temporary  differences  associated  with  investments  in  subsidiaries,  associates  and  interests  in  joint  ventures,  where  the  timing  of  the  reversal  of  the  temporary  differences  can  be  controlled  and  it  is  probable  that  the  temporary  differences  will  not  reverse  in the foreseeable future.
Deferred  income  tax  assets  are  recognised  for  all  deductible  temporary  differences,  carry  forward  of  unused  tax  credits  and  unused  tax  losses,  to  the  extent  that  it  is  probable  that  taxable  profit  will  be  available  against  which  the  deductible  temporary  differences,  and  the  carry  forward  of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except:
where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or  liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor  taxable profit or loss; and
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures,  deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable  future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer  probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised  deferred  income  tax  assets  are  reassessed  at  each  balance  sheet  date  and  are  recognised  to  the  extent  that  it  has  become  probable  that  future  taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities  are  measured  at  the  tax  rates  that  are  expected  to  apply  to  the  year  when  the  asset  is  realised  or  the  liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
•
•
•
•
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 75 Financial statements
Deferred  tax  assets  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  are  offset,  if  a  legally  enforceable  right  exists  to  set  off  current  tax  assets  against  current  tax  liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax (‘VAT’) except:
where  VAT  incurred  on  a  purchase  of  assets  or  services  is  not  recoverable  from  the  taxation  authority,  in  which  case  VAT  is  recognised  as  part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable; and
receivables and payables, which are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements    (note 26).
Earnings per share
The  earnings per share (‘EPS’) calculation  has assumed that the number of Ordinary Shares issued pursuant to the share exchange  agreements  in  relation  to  the  acquisition  of  Ferrexpo  AG  by  Ferrexpo  plc  have  been  in  issue  throughout  2007  and  2006  which  is  consistent  with  the  pooling  of  interests  method  used  to  account  for  combinations  of  businesses  under  common  control.  The  Directors  believe  that  this  measure  of  EPS  provides a more meaningful comparison with the Group’s ongoing business than using the statutory EPS which would only reflect shares  issued based on the actual date of issue.  Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo AG by the number    of  Ordinary  Shares  as  defined  above.  The  number  of  Ordinary  Shares  in  issue  excludes  the  shares  held  by  the  Ferrexpo  AG  Listing  Bonus  Trust.  Diluted  earnings  per  share  is  calculated  by  adjusting  the  number  of  Ordinary  Shares  in  issue  on  the  assumption  of  conversion  of  all  potentially  dilutive Ordinary Shares. All share awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation    of diluted earnings per share.
Events after the balance sheet date
Events  after  the  balance  sheet  date  that  provide  additional  information  on  the  Group’s  position  at  the  balance  sheet  date  (adjusting  events)  are  reflected in the historical financial information. Events after the balance sheet date that are not adjusting events are disclosed in the notes  when material.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and are recognised    as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.    Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period    has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity  instruments  that  will  ultimately  vest.  The  movement  in  cumulative  expense  since  the  previous  balance  sheet  date  is  recognised  in  the  income  statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
New Standards and interpretations not yet adopted
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ introduces the ‘management approach’ to segment reporting. IFRS 8, which becomes mandatory for the Group’s  2009  financial  statements,  will  require  the  disclosure  of  segment  information  based  on  the  internal  reports  regularly  reviewed  by  the  Group’s  Chief Operating decision maker in order to assess each segment’s performance and to allocate resources to them. Currently the Group  presents  segment  information  in  respect  of  its  business  and  geographical  segments  (see  note  4).  The  management  approach  is  not  expected  to change this structure of reporting significantly; however, owing to the expansionary nature of the business the Group has not yet  determined the full effect of this new standard. IFRS 8 will also reduce the maximum size of the cash generating unit to be used for the  impairment testing of goodwill. Based on current indicators management does not believe that this would impact the carrying value of  goodwill.
Revised IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ removes the option to expense borrowing costs and requires that an entity capitalise borrowing costs directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition,  construction  or  production  of  a  qualifying  asset  as  part  of  the  cost  of  that  asset.  The  revised  IAS  23  will  become  mandatory  for  the  Group’s  2009  financial  statements  but  currently  does  not  apply  to  the  Group.  In  accordance  with  the  transitional  provisions  the  Group  will  apply  the  revised  IAS  23  to  qualifying  assets  for  which  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  commences  on  or  after  the  effective  date.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – ‘Group Treasury Transactions’ requires a share-based payment arrangement in which an entity receives goods or services as  consideration  for  its  own  equity  instruments  to  be  accounted  for  as  an  equity-settled  share-based  payment  transaction,  regardless  of  how  the  equity  instruments  are  obtained.  IFRIC  11  will  become  mandatory  for  the  Group’s  2008  financial  statements,  with  retrospective  application  required. It is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 76 Financial statements
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’ clarifies where refunds    or reductions in future contributions in relation to defined benefit assets, should be regarded as available and provides guidance on the  impact of minimum funding requirements (‘MFR’) on such assets. It also addresses when an MFR might give rise to a liability. IFRIC 14 will  become  mandatory  for  the  Group’s  2008  financial  statements,  with  retrospective  application  required.  It  is  not  expected  to  have  any  impact  on  the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 1  ‘Presentation  of  financial  statements’  (revised  September  2007)  –  Whilst  the  revised  IAS  1  will  have  no  impact  on  the  measurement  of  the  Group’s  results  or  net  assets  it  is  likely  to  result  in  certain  changes  in  the  presentation  of  the  Group’s  financial  statements  from  2009  onwards.
IFRS 2  ‘Share-based  payment’  amendment  to  IFRS  2  –  Vesting  and  conditions  and  cancellations  –  The  amendment  to  IFRS  2  restricts  the  definition of vesting conditions to include only service conditions (requiring a specific period of service to be completed)    and performance conditions (requiring the other party to achieve a personal goal or contribute to achieving a corporate target). All other  features are not vesting conditions, and whereas a failure to achieve such a condition was previously regarded as a forfeiture (giving    rise to a reversal of amounts previously charged to profit) it must be reflected in the grant date fair value of the award and treated as    a  cancellation,  which  results  in  either  an  acceleration  of  the  expected  charge,  or  a  continuation  over  the  remaining  vesting  period,  depending  on whether the condition is under control of the entity or counterparty. The amendment is mandatory for periods beginning    on or after 1 January 2009 and the Group is currently assessing its impact on the financial statements, although it is not expected to    be material.
IFRS 3  ‘Business  combinations’  (revised  January  2008)  –  The  Group  does  not  anticipate  early  adopting  the  revised  IFRS  3  and  so  will  apply  it  prospectively  to  all  business  combinations  on  or  after  1  January  2010.  Whilst  it  is  not  possible  to  estimate  the  outcome  of  adoption,  the  key  features  of  the  revised  IFRS  3  include  a  requirement  for  acquisition-related  costs  to  be  expensed  and  not  included  in  the  purchase  price;  and  for  contingent  consideration  to  be  recognised  at  fair  value  on  the  acquisition  date  (with  subsequent  changes  recognised  in  the  income  statement  and  not  as  a  change  to  goodwill).  the  standard  also  changes  the  treatment  of  non-controlling  interest  (formerly  minority  interests)  with  an  option  to  recognise  these  at  full  fair  value  as  at  the  acquisition  date  and  a  requirement  for  previously  held  non-controlling  interests  to  be  fair  valued  as  at  the  date  control  is  obtained,  with  gains  and  losses  recognised  in  the  income  statement.
IAS 27  ‘Consolidated  and  Separate  Financial  Statements’  (revised  January  2008)  –  IAS  27  revised  is  effective  for  annual  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  July  2009,  with  earlier  application  only  permitted  when  the  revised  IFRS  3  is  applied.  The  revised  standard  applies  retrospectively  with  some  exceptions.  IAS  27  revised  no  longer  restricts  the  allocation  to  minority  interest  of  losses  incurred  by  a  subsidiary  to  the  amount  of  the  non-controlling  equity  investment  in  the  subsidiary.  A  partial  disposal  of  equity  interest  in  a  subsidiary  that  does  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  will  be  accounted  for  as  an  equity  transaction  and  will  have  no  impact  on  goodwill  nor  will  it  give  rise  to  any  gain  or  loss.  Where  there  is  loss  of  control  of  a  subsidiary,  any  retained  interest  will  have  to  be  remeasured  at  fair  value,  which  will  impact  the  gain  or  loss  on  disposal.  The  Group  is currently assessing the impact on its financial statements from adopting IAS 27 revised.
  Note 3: Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
credit risk
liquidity risk
market risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes    for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout    these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.  The  Group’s  risk  management  policies  are  established  to  identify  and  analyse  the  risks  faced  by  the  Group,  to  set  appropriate  risk  limits  and  controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in  market  conditions  and  the  Group’s  activities.  The  Group,  through  its  training  and  management  standards  and  procedures,  aims  to  develop  a  disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and  reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is assisted    in  its  oversight  role  by  Internal  Audit.  Internal  Audit  undertakes  both  regular  and  ad  hoc  reviews  of  risk  management  controls  and  procedures,  the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The  Group  operates  a  centralised  financial  risk  management  structure  under  the  management  of  the  Executive  Committee,  accountable  to  the  Board and Audit Committee. The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’).    The CFO’s responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial    risk  for  the  Group.  Additionally,  the  CFO  delegates  control  and  management  of  treasury  risks  within  each  of  the  business  units  to  the  Group  Treasurer.
•
•
•
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 77 Financial statements
Financial instrument risk exposure and management
Natural hedges that can be identified and the effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.  Derivative  transactions  may  be  executed  for  risk  mitigation  purposes  only  –  speculation  is  not  permitted  –  and  are  intended  to  have  the  net  effect  of  reducing  risk  on  underlying  market  or  credit  exposures.  Appropriate  operational  controls  ensure  operational  risks  are  not  increased  disproportionately to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The  Group  has  not  used  any  financial  risk  management  instruments  that  are  derivative  in  nature  or  any  other  hedging  instruments  in  this  or  prior periods.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual  obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
Trade and other receivables
The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain certain obligations that create exposure to credit,  counterparty  and  country  risks.  It  is  the  primary  objective  of  the  Group  to  manage  such  risks  to  reduce  uncertainty  of  collection  from  buyers.  A  secondary  objective  is  to  minimise  the  cost  of  mitigating  risks  within  acceptable  risk  parameters.  Both  objectives  are  achieved  through  the  active management of the underlying portfolio of risks.
Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment. The greater the risks associated with the transaction, the greater the cost. These risks  include  the  creditworthiness  of  the  buyer,  and  the  political  and  economic  stability  of  the  buyer’s  country.  Trade  finance  generally  refers  to  the  financing  of  individual  transactions  or  a  series  of  revolving  transactions  and  are  often  self-liquidating  whereby  the  lending  bank  stipulates  that  all  sales  proceeds  to  be  collected  are  applied  to  settle  the  loan,  the  remainder  returned  to  the  Group.  Trade  finance  transactions  are  approved  by  the  Group  Treasurer.  The  primary  objective  is  to  ensure  that  the  margins  paid  and  conditions  applicable  should  be  the  same  or  better  than  those  which  other  organisations  with  similar  credit  worthiness  would  achieve,  and  compared  with  other  alternative  financing  available  to  the  Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner, or to  comply  with  other  conditions  of  an  obligation  or  agreement.  Where  appropriate,  the  Group  uses  letters  of  credit  to  assist  in  mitigating  such  risks.
Counterparty  risk  is  rating  the  risk  that  a  party  to  an  agreement  will  default.  In  general,  counterparty  risk  is  reduced  by  having  an  organisation  with a higher credit rating act as an intermediary between the Group and the buyer. Where letters of credit are used, the Group uses a  confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and/or credit risk of the issuing bank.  Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and/or financial events    in a given country.
Approval is obtained from the Group Treasurer before acceptance of counterparty risks.  Group  Treasury  monitors  the  concentration  of  all  outstanding  risks  associated  with  any  entity  or  country  and  reports  to  the  CFO  on  a  timely  basis.
Investment securities
The Group limits its exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties that are  incorporated  in  an  A+  or  better  (S&P)  rated  OECD  country;  and  is  rated  from  S&P  or  Moody’s  at  a  level  to  long  term  A  (S&P)  or  short  term  A2  (S&P) or better.
Recognising that the principal activities of the Group predominantly reside in Ukraine, special consideration is given for investments with  Ukrainian counterparties. Exceptions may be made under the following conditions:
The counterparty is resident in Ukraine.
The counterparty is included in the top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine.
The counterparty is either:
  – owned and controlled by the State with its obligations guaranteed by the State; or
  –   majority owned and controlled by an international financial institution capable of covering the counterparty exposure which in itself  meets the criteria of an eligible counterparty; or
  – a local financial institution that has achieved a minimum investment grade rating from S&P or Moody’s.
•
•
• Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 78 Financial statements
Note 3: Financial risk management continued
Guarantees
The  Group’s  policy  is  to  provide  financial  guarantees  only  to  wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  At  31  December  2007  Ferrexpo  AG  and  Ferrexpo  UK  Ltd were joint and severally liable under a US$335 million loan agreement (31 December 2006: US$275 million).
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing  liquidity  is  to  ensure,  as  far  as  possible,  that  it  will  always  have  sufficient  funds  to  meet  its  liabilities  when  due,  under  both  normal  and  stressed  conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The  Group  uses  activity-based  costing  to  cost  its  product  and  detailed  capital  expenditure  forecasts,  which  assist  it  in  monitoring  cash  flow  requirements  and  optimising  its  cash  return  on  investments.  Typically  the  Group  ensures  that  it  has  sufficient  cash  on  demand  and/or  lines  of  credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations; this excludes the  potential  impact  of  extreme  circumstances  that  cannot  reasonably  be  predicted,  such  as  natural  disasters.  The  Group  maintains  the  following  lines of credit:
US$5  million  overdraft  facility  that  is  unsecured.  Interest  would  be  payable  at  the  rate  of  weekly  average  LIBOR  increased  by  0.875%  plus  225 basis points.
US$80 million and US$135 million revolving lines of credit that can be drawn down to meet short to medium term financing needs    up to 180 days. Interest would be payable at a fixed rate of 9.0% per annum on US$80 million revolving facility and at the rate of one  month LIBOR plus 235 basis points on US$135 million revolving facility.
Market risk
Market  risk  is  the  risk  that  changes  in  market  prices,  such  as  foreign  exchange  rates,  interest  rates  and  equity  prices  will  affect  the  Group’s  income  or  the  value  of  its  holdings  of  financial  instruments.  The  objective  of  market  risk  management  is  to  manage  and  control  market  risk  exposure within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective  functional currencies of Group entities, primarily the Ukrainian hyrivna, but also US dollars, Swiss francs, euro and sterling.
The Group’s major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US dollars, with costs of production in hyrivna. The  hyrivna is currently pegged to the US dollar and for this reason trade receivables and trade payables denominated in US dollars are not  hedged. Trade receivables and trade payables in other currencies are considered immaterial and are similarly not hedged.
The  principal  amounts  of  the  Group’s  US  dollar  bank  loans  used  to  fund  hyrivna  functional  currency  entities  are  not  hedged  as  the  currency  is  currently pegged to the US dollar.  Interest  on  borrowings  is  denominated  in  US  dollars  and  is  less  than  the  US  dollar  cash  flows  generated  by  the  underlying  operations  of  the  Group. This provides an economic natural hedge and no derivatives are entered into.
Appropriate hedging policies are in place to allow mitigation of currency risk were the US$/UAH peg to come to an end.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk  mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Owing to these conditions the Group does not consider it necessary to engage in hedging activities.
Interest rate risk
The Group predominantly borrows funds that are at floating interest rates and will be exposed to interest rate movements. The primary  objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce uncertainty to interest rate movement through capping or fixing of funding costs.  However,  a  secondary  objective  is  to  minimise  the  net  funding  costs  within  acceptable  risk  parameters.  Both  objectives  are  achieved  through  the active management of underlying interest rate exposures. The interest rate exposure to US dollars remained relatively low during the  period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
Commodity risk
The  Group  does  not  have  a  commodity  risk  exposure  to  its  financial  assets  and  liablities.  Trade  receivables  are  based  on  a  fixed  contract  price,  and  so  do  not  fluctuate  with  iron  ore  market  prices.  Similarly  finished  goods  are  held  at  cost,  with  revaluation  to  a  spot  price  not  applicable  for  iron ore pellets, there being no tradeable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
Other market price risk
Equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity securities which are not quoted.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain    future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the    return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity, excluding minority interests, and the level of dividends to    ordinary shareholders.
The  Board  seeks  to  maintain  a  balance  between  the  higher  returns  that  might  be  possible  with  higher  levels  of  borrowings  and  advantages  and security afforded by a sound capital position.  •
•
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79 Financial statements
The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Group’s profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making    on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level    of dividend cover.
The Group does not purchase its own shares on the market nor have a defined share buyback plan.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
  Note 4: Segment information
Segment reporting
A  segment  is  a  distinguishable  component  of  the  Group  that  is  engaged  either  in  providing  products  or  services  (business  segment),  or  in  providing  products  or  services  within  a  particular  economic  environment  (geographical  segment),  which  is  subject  to  risks  and  rewards  that  are  different  from  those  of  other  segments.  Segment  information  is  presented  in  respect  of  the  Group’s  business  and  geographical  segments.
Segment  results,  assets  and  liabilities  include  items  directly  attributable  to  a  segment  as  well  as  those  that  can  be  allocated  on  a  reasonable  basis.  Primary reporting format – Business segments
The Group’s activity is primarily the processing and sale of iron ore and for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements only one  business segment is therefore identified as a reportable segment.
Secondary reporting format – Geographical segments 
The Group operated in two distinct geographical segments for the processing and sale of iron ore for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Group’s principal mining operations are based in Ukraine and the Group’s chief sales office, Ferrexpo AG, is based in Switzerland.
  Year  ended  31.12.07
US$000              Ukraine    Switzerland    Total
Revenue    
Sales  to  external  customers              136,757    561,459    698,216
Other segment information      Segment  assets              750,180    117,761    867,941
Segment  liabilities              (65,251)    (215,768)    (281,019)
      Capital expenditure:      Property,  plant  and  equipment              94,188    1,182    95,370
Intangible  fixed  assets               482    –    482
Depreciation  and  amortisation              27,831    433    28,264
  Year  ended  31.12.06
US$000              Ukraine    Switzerland    Total
Revenue        Sales  to  external  customers              79,610    467,700    547,310
        Other segment information        Segment  assets              652,247    54,669    706,916
Segment  liabilities              (189,182)    (180,942)    (370,124)
          Capital expenditure:        Property,  plant  and  equipment              53,993    356    54,349
Intangible  fixed  assets               156,423    –    156,423
Depreciation  and  amortisation              28,270    293    28,563 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 80 Financial statements
Note 5: Revenue
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                  Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                    31.12.07   31.12.06
Revenue  from  sales  of  ore  pellets:    Export                    560,805  467,099
Ukraine                  128,731  73,089
                   689,536  540,188
    Revenue  from  services  provided                  3,005  3,158
Revenue  from  other  sales                    5,675  3,964
                   698,216  547,310
Export sales by geographical destination were as follows:
                  Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                    31.12.07   31.12.06
Austria                    160,324  140,286
China                  103,223  83,258
Slovakia                  81,516  54,143
Serbia                  83,708  64,015
Czech  Republic                    55,617  52,775
Bulgaria                    27,389  15,587
Poland                  23,766  15,571
Romania                    7,038  23,838
Germany                    –  4,183
Turkey                  9,777  12,302
Japan                  5,029  –
Italy                  3,418  –
Other                    –  1,141
                   560,805  467,099
During  the  year  ended  31  December  2007  sales  made  to  three  customers  accounted  for  approximately  53.9%  of  the  net  sales  revenue  (2006:  55.3%).
Note 6: Cost of sales
Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended  ended
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Materials                    92,449  62,002
Purchased  ore  and  concentrate                17,587  16,703
Electricity                    74,621  65,535
Personnel  costs                    47,402  46,231
Spare  parts  and  consumables                    14,663  27,072
Depreciation  and  amortisation                    25,635 24,895
Fuel                    28,086  25,798
Gas                  25,576  20,806
Royalties  and  levies                    8,570  7,678
Other                    1,347  –
                     335,936    296,720  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81 Financial statements
Cost of sales is reconciled to ‘C1’ costs in the following manner.
                    Year   Year
                    ended  ended
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Cost  of  sales                  335,936  296,720
Depreciation  and  amortisation                    (25,635)  (24,895)
Purchased  ore  and  concentrate                (19,911)  (19,396)
Production  cost  of  gravel                  (2,101)  (2,728)
Stock  movement  in  the  period                 (6,284)  (9,930)
Pension  current  service  cost                    (1,877)  (1,784)
Other                  (555)  484
C1  Cost                  279,573  238,471
Own  ore  produced  tonnes                  8,793,000  8,149,000
C1  cash  cost  per  tonnes  US$                    31.79  29.26
‘C1’  costs  represent  the  cash  costs  of  production  of  own  ore  divided  by  production  volume  of  own  ore,  and  excludes  non-cash  costs  such  as  depreciation, pension costs and stock movement, and costs of purchased ore, concentrate and production cost of gravel.
Note 7: Selling and distribution expenses
Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Railway  transportation                    58,358  53,029
Other  transportation                  34,914  27,335
Agent  fees                    2,025  1,649
Custom  duties                    1,101  1,180
Advertising                    1,816  1,096
Personnel  cost                    827  784
Depreciation                    575  128
Other                    998  1,175
                       100,614   86,376    Note 8: General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses for the ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                  Year   Year
                  ended  ended
US$000                   31.12.07  31.12.06
Personnel  costs                  20,428  17,489
Buildings  and  maintenance                    1,900  5,697
Taxes  other  than  income  tax  and  other  charges              3,674  3,138
Social  responsibility  costs                    1,521  1,028
Consulting  and  other  professional  fees                  6,363  3,168
Depreciation  and  amortisation                    2,055  2,192
Communication                    425  2,083
Vehicles  maintenance  and  fuel                    1,016  598
Repair                    422  468
Audit  fees                    1,089  1,207
Non-audit  fees                    584  –
Security                    769  333
Research                  393  1,583
Other                    3,669  2,156
                   44,308    41,140  In  2006,  within  buildings  and  maintenance  above  of  US$5,697,000  is  an  amount  of  US$3,914,000  specifically  relating  to  Vostock  Ruda  LLC.  The  Company  was  not  in  operation  in  2006  but  costs  were  incurred  to  maintain  the  mining  shafts  in  working  condition  and  these  costs  expensed.  The Group’s holding in Vostock Ruda was reduced to 9.4% by the end of 2006, and then to 3.2% by the end of 2007.    As a result expenses of this nature have not been consolidated for the year ended 31 December 2007. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 82 Financial statements
Note 8: General and administrative expenses continued
Auditor remuneration
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Audit  
United  Kingdom                    78  55
Overseas                  1,011  1,152
Other services provided by auditors  
United  Kingdom                    12  –
Overseas                  12,080  –
Total auditor remuneration          13,181 1,207
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                    31.12.07   31.12.06
Statutory audit services  
Ferrexpo  plc  Annual  Report                  1,021  –
Subsidiary  entities                    68  1,207
                   1,089  1,207
Non-audit services  
IPO  related  fees                    11,508  –
Tax  advisory                    134  –
Assurance  related  services                    450  –
                    12,092  –
Total auditor remuneration          13,181 1,207
The cost of the audit of the listing documents was netted off against share premium in the current year.
Note 9: Other income
Other income for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Sale  of  surplus  maintenance  spares                3,643  1,532
Other  income                    1,201  1,051
                     4,844    2,583  Note 10: Other expenses
Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended  ended
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Charitable  donations                    2,971  1,880
Loss  on  disposal  of  plant,  property  and  equipment                –  601
Fines  and  penalties                    18  1,758
Other                     2,107  839
                     5,096    5,078      Note 11: Write-offs and impairment losses
Impairment  losses  relate  to  adjustments  made  against  the  carrying  value  of  assets  where  this  is  higher  than  the  recoverable  amount.  Write-offs  and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Write-off/write-up  of  inventories                    (544)  341
Write-off  of  property,  plant  and  equipment                 2,112  814
Impairment  of  property,  plant  and  equipment                –  729
Other  impairment                    –  321
                      1,568   2,205  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 83 Financial statements
Note 12: Net gain/(loss) from disposal of subsidiaries and investments
Gain/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries and investments for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07 31.12.06
Loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiaries  (note  37)                  –  (3,524)
Gain  on  disposal  of  available-for-sale  investment  (note  37)              4,714  –
                   4,714  (3,524)
Note 13: Initial public offering costs
Initial public offering costs during the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07   31.12.06
Consultants  and  other  professional  fees                  45,496  –
Management listing bonus:
Cash                    11,332  –
Share  award                    9,064  –
                     65,892    –  Charged  to:
Income  statement                    34,004  –
Share  premium  reserve                    31,888  –
                    65,892  –
In  addition  to  the  management  listing  bonus  charge  during  the  year  a  further  2,403,000  shares  remain  unvested  at  31  December  2007  (note  43)  (2006: nil).
  Note 14: Financing income/expense
Finance revenue and costs for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Finance income  
Interest  income  on  bank  deposits                2,457 2,326
Other  finance  revenue                     785  –
                     3,242    2,326  Finance expense  
Interest  expense  on  financial  liabilities  measured  at  amortised  cost          (21,493)  (27,425)
Interest  on  defined  benefit  plans                (1,462)  (1,269)
Bank  charges                    (1,642)  (3,870)
Other  finance  costs                    (1,353)  (91)
                     (25,950) (32,655)
    Foreign  exchange  loss                    (3,467)  (3,784)
Net  finance  expense                   (26,175)  (34,113) Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 84 Financial statements
Note 15: Income tax expense 
Major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 consisted of the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07   31.12.06
Current  income  tax                   31,163  16,371
Deferred  income  tax                  (4,438)  (1,613)
                     26,725   14,758  The  Group’s  income  was  subject  to  taxation  in  Ukraine,  Switzerland  and  the  United  Kingdom.  During  the  year  ended  31  December  2007  the  corporate income tax was levied on taxable income less allowable expenses at the following rates:  Ukraine 25% (2006: 25%)
Switzerland 9.8%–16.2% (2006: 9.3%)
UK 30% (2006: 30%).
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates. The weighted average of the statutory rates was 17.6% for 2007  (2006:  13.9%).  This  is  calculated  as  the  average  of  the  statutory  tax  rates  applicable  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates,  weighted  by  the  profit/(loss)  before  tax  of  the  subsidiaries  in  the  respective  countries  as  included  in  the  consolidated  historical  financial  information.  The  effective tax rate is 16.6% (2006: 18.3%).
The  changes  in  the  weighted  average  statutory  income  tax  rate  are  largely  due  to  a  change  in  the  weighting  of  profit/(loss)  before  tax  in  the  various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.  A  reconciliation  between  the  income  tax  charged  in  the  accompanying  historical  financial  information  and  income  before  taxes  multiplied  by  the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2007 is as follows:
                    Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                    31.12.07   31.12.06
Profit  before  tax                  160,760  80,737
    Notional  tax  computed  at  the  weighted  average  statutory  tax  rate  of  17.6%  (2006:  13.9%)      28,234  11,186
50/50  Swiss  tax  ruling                    (472)  (1,991)
(Recognition)/derecognition  of  deferred  tax  assets                –  791
Tax  indexation  of  fixed  assets                    (6,084)  –
Expenses  not  deductible  for  tax  purposes                 4,675  4,759
Prior  year  items                     32  13
Other                    340  –
Income tax expense                   26,725    14,758  Note 16: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed
The  earnings per share (‘EPS’) calculation  has assumed that the number of Ordinary Shares issued pursuant to the share exchange  agreements  in  relation  to  the  acquisition  of  Ferrexpo  AG  by  Ferrexpo  plc  have  been  in  issue  throughout  2006  and  2007  which  is  consistent  with  the  pooling  of  interests  method  used  to  account  for  combinations  of  businesses  under  common  control.  The  directors  believe  that  this  measure  of  EPS  provides a more meaningful comparison with the Group’s ongoing business than using the statutory EPS which would only reflect shares  issued based on the actual date of issue. Furthermore this approach provides the same results    as if the Ferrexpo AG shares, outstanding between 2006 and 2007, have been multiplied by the exchange ratio shares in Ferrexpo plc.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of  Ordinary Shares as defined above.                      Year  Year
                    ended   ended
                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders:   
      Basic  earnings  per  share  (US  cents)                  20.41  10.47
Diluted  earnings  per  share  (US  cents)                20.33  10.47
      Underlying earnings for the period:   
      Basic  earnings  per  share  (US  cents)                  24.93  10.92
Diluted  earnings  per  share  (US  cents)                  24.84  10.92
•
•
•
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 85 Financial statements
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
Thousands                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Number of shares    
Basic  number  of  Ordinary  Shares  outstanding                607,796  607,471
Effect  of  dilutive  potential  Ordinary  Shares               2,403  –
Diluted  number  of  Ordinary  Shares  outstanding              610,199 607,471
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Ferrexpo AG Listing Bonus Trust. Diluted earnings per share is  calculated  by  adjusting  the  number  of  Ordinary  Shares  in  issue  on  the  assumption  of  conversion  of  all  potentially  dilutive  Ordinary  Shares.  All  share awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
‘Underlying earnings’ is an alternative earnings measure, which the Directors believe provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial  performance  of  the  Group’s  operations.  Underlying  earnings  is  presented  after  minority  interests  and  excludes  adjusted  items.  The  calculation  of underlying earnings per share is based on the following earnings data:
                    Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                  Notes 31.12.07  31.12.06
Profit  attributable  to  equity  holders                124,076  63,578
      Write-offs/impairments                  11  1,568  2,205
Loss  on  disposals                  12  –  3,524
IPO  costs                  13  34,004  –
Gain  on  sale  of  available-for-sale  investment              12  (4,714)  –
Tax  on  adjusting  items                    (3,217)  (1,432)
Minority  interests                    (220)  (1,213)
Tax  on  minority  interests                    48  (303)
Underlying  earnings                    151,545  66,359
Adjusted items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income  statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group. Adjusted items that relate to the  operating  performance  of  the  Group  include  impairment  charges  and  reversals  and  other  exceptional  items.  Non-operating  adjusting  items  include profits and losses on disposal of investments and businesses.
Dividends paid and proposed
                    Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Dividends proposed       Dividend  proposed  by  subsidiary  to  minority  interest  of  US$0.015    (2006:  US$0.01)                  251  563
           251  563
                    Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Dividends paid during the period      Final  dividend  paid  by  parent  company  proposed  in  2004               –  108
Final  dividend  proposed  in  previous  years  to  minority  interest              786  178
          786  286
The  Directors  are  proposing  a  dividend  in  respect  of  profits  generated  by  the  Ferrexpo  Group  in  2007  of  3.2  US  cents  per  Ordinary  Share.  Based  on  shares  eligible  for  dividends  as  at  31  December  2007  this  will  result  in  a  distribution  of  US$19,449,000  of  shareholders’  funds.  These  financial  statements  do  not  reflect  this  dividend  payable,  in  accordance  with  UK  Companies  Act  and  IFRS,  as  it  is  still  subject  to  shareholder  approval.
The Ferrexpo AG Listing Bonus Trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares it holds.
  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 86 Financial statements
Note 17: EBITDA
The  Group  calculates  EBITDA  as  profit  from  continuing  operations  before  tax  and  finance,  adjusted  for  depreciation  and  amortisation,  non-
recurring  items  included  in  other  income  and  other  costs,  and  the  net  gain/loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  associates.  The  Group  presents  EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluation of its ability to generate cash and of its operating performance.
                    Year   Year
                    ended  ended
US$000                  Notes  31.12.07    31.12.06
Profit before tax and finance                 186,935  114,850
        Write-offs  and  impairment  losses                 11  1,568  2,205
Net  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiary                12  –  3,524
Net  gain  on  disposal  of  available-for-sale  investment              12  (4,714)  –
Initial  public  offering  costs                  13  34,004  –
Depreciation  and  amortisation                  4  28,264  28,563
EBITDA          246,057 149,142
The  Group  has  changed  how  it  defines  EBITDA  from  that  used  in  prior  periods  which  now  excludes  the  effect  of  foreign  exchange  gains/losses  because the Group believe this is a more appropriate reflection of its ability to generate cash and of its operating performance.
  Note 18: Property, plant and equipment
As at 31 December 2007 property, plant and equipment comprised:
                    Assets
                  Fixtures  under
          Mining     Plant  and     and  con-
US$000        Land  assets*  Buildings  equipment  Vehicles  fittings  struction  Total
Cost:        
As at 31 December 2005    2,321 7,439 128,394 149,195 63,210 2,082 31,816 384,457
Additions         –  –  –  –  –  364  53,985  54,349
Transfers         –  23  11,150  24,728  12,411  271  (48,583)  –
Disposals         –  –  (1,069)  (2,401)  (1,272)  (25)  (583)  (5,350)
Disposal  of  subsidiary        –  (138)  (9,523)  (7,065)  (34)  (144)  (675)  (17,579)
As at 31 December 2006    2,321 7,324 128,952 164,457 74,315 2,548 35,960 415,877
Additions         –  1,333  –  3  –  705  93,329  95,370
Transfers         2,563  2,714  9,086  18,655  19,581  402  (53,001)  –
Disposals         –  –  (189)  (3,205)  (1,192)  –  (1,406)  (5,992)
Disposal  of  subsidiary        –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
As at 31 December 2007    4,884 11,371 137,849 179,910 92,704 3,655 74,882 505,255
Depreciation:        
As at 31 December 2005    – 349 14,653 59,082 16,847 515 – 91,446
Depreciation  charge         –  164  5,444  16,329  5,937  541  –  28,415
Disposals         –  –  (621)  (1,684)  (1,185)  (16)  –  (3,506)
Impairment        –  –  –  –  –  –  729  729
Disposal  of  subsidiary        –  (116)  (1,385)  (953)  (21)  (75)  –  (2,550)
At as 31 December 2006    – 397 18,091 72,774 21,578 965 729 114,534
Depreciation  charge         –  236  6,584  17,575  5,643  712  –  30,750
Disposals         –  –  (351)  (2,632)  (881)  (22)  –  (3,886)
Impairment        –  –  –  –  –  –  (688)  (688)
Disposal  of  subsidiary        –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
At as 31 December 2007    – 633 24,324 87,717 26,340 1,655 41 140,710
Net book value as at:        
31 December 2006    2,321 6,927 110,861 91,683 52,737 1,583 35,231 301,343
31 December 2007    4,884 10,738 113,525 92,193 66,364 2,000 74,841 364,545
* Mine assets constitute mine stripping costs which are accounted for under the Group’s accounting policy outlined in note 2.
US$114,388,000 (2006: US$127,872,000) of property plant and equipment have been pledged for security for liabilities.
  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87 Financial statements
Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets 
As at 31 December 2007 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised:
                    Other                      intangible  US$000                  Goodwill  assets  Total
As at 31 December 2005         – 9,619 9,619
Additions                    –  741  741
Acquisition  of  minority  interest  in  subsidiary                155,682  –  155,682
Disposals                   –  (181)  (181)
Disposal  of  subsidiary                   –  (8,833)  (8,833)
As at 31 December 2006         155,682 1,346 157,028
Additions                    –  482  482
Disposals                   –  (47)  (47)
As at 31 December 2007         155,682 1,781 157,463
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:    
As at 31 December 2005         – 355 355
Amortisation  charge                   –  148  148
Disposals                   –  (9)  (9)
As at 31 December 2006         – 494 494
Amortisation  charge                   –  189  189
Disposals                   –  (47)  (47)
At at 31 December 2007         – 636 636
Net carrying amount as at:   
31 December 2006         155,682 852 156,534
31 December 2007         155,682 1,145 156,827
The  major  component  of  other  intangible  assets  as  at  31  December  2007  comprises  licences  in  respect  of  the  Group’s  mining  operations.  The  amortisation charge for the year is allocated to production expenses and administrative expenses as appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to one cash generating unit as the  Group only has one primary operational segment which is the production and sale of iron ore. This represents the lowest level within the  Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Based on our review no impairment indications were identified as at the reporting date.
  Note 20: Investments in associates
As at 31 December 2007 investments in associates comprised:
                    As at  As  at
        31.12.07  31.12.06
  Principal  activity   Ownership  %  US$000  US$000
TIS-Ruda  Port  development    49.9 17,637  16,950
        17,637  16,950
For the year ended 31 December 2007 summarised financial information for the associate was as follows:
  Total  assets  Total  liabilities  Revenue  Net  Profit/(loss)
           Year  Year         Year  Year
        As at  As  at  As at  As  at  ended  ended  ended  ended
  US$000        31.12.07  31.12.06  31.12.07  31.12.06  31.12.07  31.12.06  31.12.07  31.12.06
TIS-Ruda        34,823  28,662  5,422  762  5,778  –  1,377  –
The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Group ownership. The movement in the  investment in the year represents the Group’s share of profit of US$687,000 in TIS-Ruda.
TIS-Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 88 Financial statements
Note 21: Available-for-sale financial assets
As at 31 December 2007 available-for-sale financial assets comprised:
  Ownership  %  Carrying  Value
                    As at  As  at                      31.12.07  31.12.06
                2007  2006  US$000  US$000
Current
Promissory  notes  available  for  sale              –  –  –  97
Marketable  Securities                –  –  102  –
Investments  available  for  sale  –  equity  instruments:          Vostock   Ruda                  3.20  9.40  2,839  1,354
                       2,941  1,451  Non-current
Promissory  notes  available  for  sale              –  –  14  14
Investments  available  for  sale  –  equity  instruments:          OJSC   Stahanov                9.91  –  12,493  –
  LLC   Atol                9.95  9.95 26,720  26,720
  CJSC   AMA                9.00  9.00  3,560  3,560
  CJSC   Amtek              9.00  9.00  4,250  4,250
  First   Investment  Bank                0.32 0.32  94  94
  Slavutich-Ruda   Ukrania  Ltd                1.00 1.00  2  2
  Dopomoga   Ltd              19.00  19.00  1  1
                       47,134  34,641
During  the  year  ended  31  December  2007  the  Group  acquired  9.91%  of  the  voting  rights  in  OJSC  Stahanov,  a  rail  car  construction  plant  located  in  the  Luhansk  region  of  Ukraine  for  consideration  of  US$11,994,000  from  an  entity  under  common  control.  A  day  one  gain  was  recognised  on  the difference between consideration and the closing stock price on the day of acquisition.  The fair value of the unquoted equity investment in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and  development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava region of Ukraine, is determined by management using a discounted cash flow projection,  having  taken  into  account  the  estimated  value  of  reserves  provided  by  an  expert  third  party  valuer.  The  principal  assumptions  used  are  gas  selling price US$205/1,000m
3
 flat (2006: US$150/1,000m
3
 average in 2007 with growth of 10% per year converging to US$230    by 2012), Condensate selling price – US$403/ton flat (2006: US$538/ton flat) and a discount rate of 8% real after tax (2006: 8% real    after tax).
The  fair  value  of  Vostock  Ruda  was  made  with  reference  to  its  net  realisable  value,  based  on  the  sales  value  achieved  when  the  Group  disposed  of  a  6.2%  interest  in  2007  (refer  to  note  37  for  more  details).  The  gain  on  revaluation  of  US$2,384,000  was  recognised  in  the  revaluation  reserve  in the year.
Note 22: Other non-current assets
As at 31 December 2007 other non-current assets comprised:
                    As at  As  at
US$000                  31.12.07   31.12.06
Prepayments  for  property,  plant  and  equipment                10,869  618
Loan  provided  to  associate                    4,000  –
Other  non-current  assets                     310  298
                   15,179  916
Note 23: Inventories
As at 31 December 2007 inventories comprised:
                    As at   As  at
US$000                      31.12.07   31.12.06
Raw  materials  and  consumables                 50,678  36,116
Finished  ore  pellets                    3,251  10,640
Work  in  progress                    2,848  2,132
Other                     –  49
Provision  for  slow  moving  and  obsolete  stock                (232)  (450)
                     56,545  48,487
As  at  31  December  2007  the  rights  to  future  proceeds  from  finished  goods  of  US$nil  were  pledged  as  collateral  for  bank  loans  (note  31)  (2006:  US$1,215,000).
Stock is held at cost or fully provided for through the provision for slow moving and obsolete stock provision above.
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 89 Financial statements
Note 24: Trade and other receivables
At 31 December 2007 trade and other receivables comprised:
                  As at  As  at
US$000                      31.12.07  31.12.06
Trade  receivables                  43,976 38,356
    Other  receivables  owed  by  related  parties                 –  19,993
Allowance  for  uncollectability                    (401)  (65)
                    43,575    58,284  Trade receivables at 31 December 2007 includes US$1,374,000 (2006: US$7,277,000) owed by related parties.
Other receivables at 31 December 2006 comprised US$14,902,000 owed by an entity under common control for engineering studies  undertaken on its behalf by the Group and US$5,091,000 relating to unpaid proceeds on disposal of Vostok Ruda (note 37).
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses are disclosed in note 42.
The movement in the allowance for uncollectability in the year was:
                  As at   As  at
US$000                   31.12.07  31.12.06
Opening  balance                    65 507
Utilisation                    –  (625)
Arising  in  the  year                    336  183
Reversal                    –  –
Closing  balance                    401  65
  Note 25: Prepayments and other current assets
As at at 31 December 2007 prepayments and other current assets comprised:
                  As at   As  at
US$000                   31.12.07   31.12.06
Prepayments  to  suppliers      Electricity   and  gas                    3,419  4,502
  Materials   and  spare  parts                    1,587  1,753
  Services                   2,574  2,607
Loan  provided  to  associate                    1,000  –
Accounts  receivable  and  prepaid  expenses                811  7,996
Other                  1,382  280
Allowance  for  uncollectability                    –  (20)
                     10,773    17,118  In 2006 accounts receivable and prepaid expenses included IPO costs of US$7,767,000.
Note 26: Other taxes recoverable and prepaid
As at 31 December taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised:
                  As at   As  at
US$000                    31.12.07    31.12.06
VAT  receivable                  52,037  42,129
Other  taxes  prepaid                    325  360
                   52,362    42,489  The VAT receivable is as a result of zero rate VAT exports made from Ukraine which is recoverable under Ukrainian tax legislation.  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 90 Financial statements
Note 27: Short term deposits with banks
As at 31 December 2007 interest bearing term deposits with a maturity term of less than one year comprised:
                  As at   As  at
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Short  term  deposits  held  with  related  parties                –  7,941
Other  banks                    –  1,070
Interest  accrued  with  related  parties                   –  2,032
                      –  11,043
Note 28: Cash and cash equivalents
                  As at   As  at
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Cash  at  bank                  78,236  14,718
Cash  held  with  related  parties                    8,727 1,515
Petty  cash                    3  3
                     86,966  16,236
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 42.
Note 29: Share capital and reserves
                     Number
                  US$000   of  shares
Balance  as  at  31  December  2006                 –    2
Issue  of  new  shares  on  21  May  2007                99    49,998
Subdivision  of  shares                  –    450,000
Issue  of  new  shares  on  24  May  2007                105,516    533,043,489  Initial  public  offering  on  15  June  2007                14,434    72,527,361
Issue  of  new  shares  on  25  June  2007                1,579    7,897,016
Balance as at 31 December 2007        121,628    613,967,866
Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising £0.10 Ordinary Shares.
At  31  December  2006  the  authorised  and  fully  paid  share  capital  was  two  Ordinary  Shares  at  a  par  value  of  £1  paid  for  in  cash,  resulting  in  share  capital of US$4.  On  21  May  2007  Ferrexpo  plc  allotted  and  issued  49,998  ordinary  shares  in  the  Company  at  par  value  of  £1  each  (US$98,620).  Following  this  allotment, Ferrexpo plc’s total issued and authorised share capital was subdivided into 500,000 Ordinary Shares.    The Company’s authorised share capital was subsequently increased to £60,050,000 divided into 600,500,000 Ordinary Shares.
On 24 May 2007, Ferrexpo plc allotted and issued 533,043,489 Ordinary Shares (£53,304,349 (US$105,515,959)) to Fevamotinico Sàrl in exchange  for  129,944,923  registered  shares  of  CHF1  each  in  the  capital  of  Ferrexpo  AG.  Pursuant  to  such  transaction,  Ferrexpo  plc  became  the  sole  shareholder of Ferrexpo AG.
As  this  transaction  involved  the  combination  of  businesses  under  common  control,  the  pooling  of  interests  method  of  accounting  has  been  applied in the presentation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006, which  present the results of the Group as if the Ferrexpo plc had always been the parent company of the Group.  On 15 June 2007, the Company’s Ordinary Shares were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading    on  the  London  Stock  Exchange.  The  global  offer  comprised  152,097,932  Ordinary  Shares  at  a  price  of  £1.40,  of  which  72,527,361  new  Ordinary  Shares were issued by the Company (US$14,433,743) and 79,570,571 were Ordinary Shares sold by the existing shareholder. Gross proceeds of  £101,538,305 (US$202,072,000) were received by the Company following the issue of the new Ordinary Shares.
The  authorised  and  fully  paid  share  capital  of  Ferrexpo  plc  at  31  December  2007  was  613,967,866  Ordinary  Shares  paid  for  in  cash,  resulting  in  share capital of US$121,627,585 per the balance sheet.
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 91 Financial statements
Share premium
Share  premium  represents  the  premium  paid  by  subscribers  to  the  share  capital  issues,  net  of  costs  directly  attributable  to  the  share  issue.
Employee benefit trust shares
Treasury shares were originally bought back by Ferroxpo AG and then subsequently transferred to the employee benefit trust.
On  25  June  2007  Ferrexpo  plc  allotted  and  issued  7,897,016  Ordinary  Shares  (US$1,579,263)  fully  paid  at  a  premium  of  £1.75  to  the  Ferrexpo  AG  Listing  Bonus  Trust  in  exchange  for  2,000,000  shares  of  CHF1  each  in  the  share  capital  of  Ferrexpo  AG,  representing  the  treasury  shares  held  by  Ferrexpo  AG,  setting  up  an  employee  benefit  trust  reserve.  The  reserve  is  used  to  satisfy  future  grants  of  shares  in  connection  with  the  listing  bonus, as well as future senior management incentivisation schemes.
Uniting of interest reserve
The  uniting  of  interest  reserve  represents  the  difference  between  the  initial  investment  by  Ferrexpo  AG  in  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation  to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are  consolidated at their historic cost, less minority interests.
The  pooling  of  interests  method  of  accounting  is  only  applicable  on  acquisition  of  control  of  a  subsidiary  and  therefore  has  not  been  applied  in  accounting  for  the  increase  in  Ferrexpo  AG’s  stake  in  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation  in  2006  from  60.3%  to  85.9%  as  control  had  already  passed. These subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as  described in the accounting policy section.  Revaluation reserve
The  revaluation  reserve  is  used  to  record  increases  in  the  fair  value  of  land  and  buildings,  and  decreases  to  the  extent  that  such  a  decrease  relates to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity.  Net unrealised gains reserve
This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
Note 30: Shares redemption liability
In October 2003, JSC Poltava GOK sold 15% of its shares to DCM Decometal International Trading GmbH (‘DCM’) subject to a deferred  obligation  to  repurchase  these  shares  at  a  fixed  price  of  US$11.0m,  payable  in  two  instalments  on  20  November  2008  and  20  December  2008.  The  shares  redemption  liability  represents  the  present  value  in  respect  of  this  contractual  obligation.  The  movement  in  the  shares  redemption  liability comprised:
                      US$000  Balance  as  at  31  December  2005                    8,182
Interest  expense                      880
Balance  as  at  31  December  2006                    9,062
Interest  expense                      974
Balance as at 31 December 2007           10,036
The DCM shares of 15% have been diluted, as a result of capital increases by Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation in which DCM did not  participate, to 10.6% as at 31 December 2007.
Note 31: Interest bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at  amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 42.
                    As at  As  at
US$000                   31.12.07   31.12.06
Current  
Ukrainian  banks                     738  73,781
Other  banks                  53,532  –
Other  entities                    –  7,411
Promissory  notes                    253  –
Interest  accrued                    14  51
Total current borrowings                  54,537    81,243  Non-current  
Ukrainian  banks                   2,578  43,708
Other  banks                  143,430  161,024
Promissory  notes                    83  –
Total non-current borrowings                 146,091 2 0 4 , 7 3 2
Total interest bearing borrowings                 200,628    285,975  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 92 Financial statements
Note 31: Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
As  at  31  December  2007  the  Ukrainian  bank  loans  are  secured  by  property,  plant  and  equipment  with  a  carrying  amount  of  US$114,388,000  (2006: US$127,872,000) and finished goods with a carrying amount of US$nil (2006: US$1,215,000). Secured    Ukrainian property, plant and equipment includes pellet production equipment, locomotives, mine transport equipment, excavators    and crushing equipment. Non-Ukraine bank loans are secured by rights to proceeds from future export sales of US$584,218,303  (2006: US$519,794,000).
As  at  31  December  2007  the  Group’s  major  bank  debt  facility  was  a  US$335,000,000  pre-export  finance  facility  with  an  unutilised  amount  of  US$135,000,000.  The  term  loan  and  revolving  credit  facilities  are  guaranteed  and  secured.  Ferrexpo  AG  has  assigned  the  rights  to  revenue  from  certain  sales  contracts  and  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation  has  assigned  all  of  its  rights  for  10  export  contracts  for  the  pellet  sales  in  2008.  In  addition  the  Group  has  also  pledged  its  bank  account  into  which  all  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  certain  iron  ore  pellet  contracts  are  received.  Ferrexpo  has  pledged all its rights under certain contacts for the sale of iron ore pellets and its rights under certain related credit support documents.
Borrowings from Finance and Credit Bank
Included  in  the  Ukrainian  bank  loans  are  interest  bearing  loans,  denominated  in  USD  and  UAH,  from  Finance  and  Credit  Bank,  a  related  party  (note 37), with a carrying value of US$nil as at 31 December 2007 (2006: US$7,200,000).
Note 32: Trade and other payables 
As at 31 December 2007 trade and other payables comprised:
                    As at   As  at
US$000                   31.12.07    31.12.06
Current trade payables   
Due  for  equipment                    1,664  9,300
Materials  and  services                     21,108  9,279
Letter  of  credit  exercised  by  the  bank                   218  2,178
Dividends  payable                  1,197  641
Other                     940  94
Trade and other payables, current                  25,127    21,492  Non-current payables
Due  for  equipment                    2,569  10,462
Other                    14  22
Trade and other payables, non-current          2,583    10,484  Current trade and other payables at 31 December 2007 includes US$3,284,000 (2006: US$2,485,000) due to related parties.
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk relating to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 42.
Note 33: Defined benefit pension liability
Ukrainian defined benefit plan
The  production  companies  of  the  Group  have  a  legal  obligation  to  compensate  the  Ukrainian  state  pension  fund  for  additional  pensions  paid  to certain categories of the employees and former employees who are eligible for early retirement benefits. The average age at which  employees become eligible to receive benefits is 56.
In 2007 this defined benefit plan covered 4,098 people (2006: 4,317 people).
There are no defined benefit plan assets.  In  addition,  the  Group  has  a  legal  obligation  to  its  employees  (in  the  form  of  a  collective  agreement)  to  make  a  one-off  payment  on  retirement  to employees with a long term of service.
  Swiss defined benefit plan
In  the  year  we  recognised  a  defined  benefit  liability  in  Switzerland  which  was  previously  deemed  immaterial  to  disclose.  With  the  executive  management  function  moving  to  Switzerland  and  the  expansion  of  the  head  office  function  this  pension  liability  has  now  been  evaluated  and  recognised in the year. The 2006 total balance does not include any items relating to the Swiss scheme.
In 2007 this defined benefit plan covered 18 people (2006: 9 people).
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93 Financial statements
Changes in the net present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
                Swiss  Ukrainian  Total  as  at  As  at
US$000                scheme  scheme  31.12.07  31.12.06
Opening  defined  benefit  obligation              –  15,446  15,446  13,538
Recognition  of  plan  liability                1,096  –  1,096  –
Current  service  cost                459  1,994  2,453  1,894
Interest  cost                45  1,445  1,490  1,269
Contribution  by  plan  participants              302  –  302  –
Benefits  paid                (311)  (1,972)  (2,283)  (1,681)
Actuarial  loss                56  1,940  1,996  659
Scheme  transfer  on  disposal  of  subsidiary             –  –  –  (233)
Closing defined benefit obligation        1,647  18,853 20,500 15,446
        Opening  assets                –  –  –  –
Recognition  of  plan  assets                832  –  832  –
Expected  return  on  plan  assets               27  –  27  –
Employer  contribution                291  –  291  –
Contribution  by  plan  participants              302  –  302  –
Benefits  paid                (311)  –  (311)  –
Actuarial  loss                  (102)    –    (102)    –
Closing balance         1,039  –  1,039 –
        Net funded status                608 18,853 19,461 15,446
        Unrecognised actuarial losses        (417) (2,875) (3,292) (945)
        Defined benefit liability at the end of the year       191 15,978 16,169 14,501
            Benefit expense    
Current  service  cost                459  1,994  2,453  1,894
Interest  cost                45  1,445  1,490  1,269
Amortisation  of  actuarial  loss                17  –  17  –
Expected  return  on  plan  assets               (27)  –  (27)  –
          494  3,439 3,933 3,163
Benefit liability        Balance at beginning of the year        –  14,501 14,501 13,252
Recognition  of  liability                (11)  –  (11)  –
Benefits  expense                494  3,439  3,933  3,163
Benefits  paid                –  (1,972)  (1,972)  (1,681)
Employer  contribution                (291)  –  (291)  –
Scheme  transfer  on  disposal  of  subsidiary             –  –  –  (233)
Foreign  exchange  translation  adjustment              (1)    10  9  –
Balance at the end of the year        191 15,978  16,169 14,501
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities      417 1,930 2,347 659
The asset allocation of the plan assets at fair value of the Swiss scheme is as follows:
                    As at   As  at
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
      Equities                  17.6% 183  –
Bonds                  53.7%  558  –
Properties                  13.8%  143  –
Other                  14.9%  155  –
                     1,039  – Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 94 Financial statements
Note 33: Defined benefit pension liability continued
The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below:
                    Year ended  Year  ended
    31.12.07    31.12.06
                  Swiss  Ukrainian  Ukrainian
                scheme scheme    scheme
Discount  rate                  3.25% 10.0%  10.0%
Retail  price  inflation                0.7% 6.5%  6.5%
Future  benefit  increase                  1.5% 7.6%  8.5%
Female  mortality  rate  (years)                  85.50 74.74  74.74
Male  mortality  rate  (years)                  82.90 63.46  63.46
The experience gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2007 were:
                2007  2006  2005  2004
Unrecognised  gain/(loss)  at  start  of  year            (945)  (286)  (5)  376
Loss  on  experience  on  the  liability            (2,347)  (659)  (855)  (380)
Gain  on  change  in  assumptions              –  –  572  –
Foreign  exchange  translation  adjustment              –  –  2  (1)
Unrecognised loss at the end of year            (3,292)  (945)  (286)  (5)
Note 34: Provision for site restoration
The costs of decommissioning open pit mines are based on the amounts determined by third party experts on the basis of Ukrainian  legislation. The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs to decommission and restore the mines at the dates the  deposits  are  expected  to  be  depleted.  The  present  value  of  the  provision  has  been  calculated  using  a  discount  rate  of  15%  per  year  (2006:  11%).  The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of the mine. Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in  regulatory  requirements,  decommissioning  and  reclamation  alternatives  and  the  levels  of  discount  and  inflation  rates.  The  addition  in  the  year  represents a re-evaluation of the liability in 2007.
                      US$000  Balance  as  at  31  December  2005                    339
Unwind  of  the  discount                      63
Balance  as  at  31  December  2006                    402
Unwind  of  the  discount                      75
Arising  during  the  year                      1,269
Balance  as  at  31  December  2007                       1,746
  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 95 Financial statements
Note 35: Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2007 relate to the following:
                    As at   As  at
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Interest  bearing  loans  and  borrowings                  –  6
Trade  and  other  receivables                  587  1,756
Trade  and  other  payables  and  advance  receivables              57  1,454
Property,  plant  and  equipment                    1,819  –
IPO  costs  netted  against  share  premium                5,179  –
Tax  losses  recognised                    1,564  –
Accrued  expenses                  1,557  591
Defined  benefit  liability                  552  –
Provision  for  site  restoration                  436  101
Other  provisions  and  accruals                    72  –
Other  items                  35  25
Deferred  tax  asset                    11,858    3,933      Thereof  netted  against  deferred  tax  liabilities                (3,751)  (3,933)
Deferred  tax  asset  per  the  balance  sheet                  8,107  –
Inventories                  (1,232)  (2,609)
Property,  plant  and  equipment                    (295)  (2,508)
Exploration  rights                    (154)  (71)
Advances  and  other  current  assets                (1,803)  (1,266)
Loans  and  borrowings                  (507)  (14)
Trade  and  other  payables  and  advance  receivables              (785)  –
Deferred  tax  liability                   (4,776)    (6,468)      Thereof  netted  against  deferred  tax  assets                  3,751 3,933
Deferred  tax  liability  per  the  balance  sheet               (1,025)  (2,535)
Net  deferred  tax  asset/(liability)                   7,082    (2,535)  The movement in the deferred income tax liabilities and (assets) are as follows:
US$000                      2007   2006
Beginning  of  the  year                    2,535  6,987
Income  statement  charge                  (4,438)  (1,613)
Transaction  costs  in  share  premium  account                (5,179)  –
Disposal  of  subsidiary                    –  (2,839)
End of the year                   (7,082)   2,535  Deferred tax assets not recognised
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the defined benefit liability.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets comprised:
                    As at   As  at
US$000                  31.12.07    31.12.06
Defined  benefit  liabilities                  3,478  3,625 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 96 Financial statements
Note 36: Accrued liabilities and deferred income
As at 31 December 2007 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised:
                  As at   As  at
US$000                  31.12.07   31.12.06
Accrued  expenses                  2,162  2,101
Accrued  interest  payable                    15 98
Accrued  employee  costs                  11,386 10,802
Advances  from  customers                  249  4,985
                     13,812    17,986  Note 37: Related party disclosure 
During the periods presented the Group entered into various transactions with entities under common control of the majority owner of    the Group, Kostyantyn Zhevago. The Group also, in the normal course of business, entered into various sales, purchase and service  transactions with associates and other related parties. These transactions were undertaken in a transparent manner at arm’s length.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify and properly disclose transactions with the    related parties and has disclosed all of the relationships identified and which it deemed to be significant. The significant balances    with related parties are disclosed in the relevant note to the accounts. The significant related party transactions undertaken    by the Group during the periods presented are disclosed below.
  Year ended 31.12.07    Year  ended  31.12.06
                Entities     Entities
                under Other  under  Other
               common  related  common  related
US$000                control parties  control   parties
Iron  ore  pellet  sales                – –  2,825  –
Other  sales                3,013 4,336  407  1,855
Purchase  of  materials                18,417 13,731  5,002  11,198
Purchase  of  services                2,460 767  1,821  3,059
General  and  administrative  expenses              361 19  –  –
Selling  and  distribution                1,801 1,797  –  –
Other  expenses                202 76  –  –
Finance  income                415 212  1,303  –
Finance  expense                141 –  1,996  –
Sale  of  property,  plant  and  equipment              690 –  280  –
Purchase  of  property,  plant  and  equipment          5,450 62  1,481  –
Additionally the Group incurred US$1,555,000 of distribution costs with its associate, TIS-Ruda (2006: US$nil).
Investment activity
During  the  year  ended  31  December  2007  the  Group  acquired  9.91%  of  the  voting  rights  in  OJSC  Stahanov  from  an  entity  under  common  control. More details of this transaction are disclosed in note 21.
During  the  year  ended  31  December  2006  the  Group  acquired  a  further  25.6%  of  the  voting  rights  in  Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation  for  a  consideration of US$238,986,000 from entities under common control.
In  2006,  the  Group  acquired  the  minority  interest  of  United  Energy  Company  LLC  from  an  entity  under  common  control  for  consideration  of  US$3,609,000 increasing the Group’s interest in the net assets to 100%.  Disposals relating to Vostok Ruda
In  2007  the  Group  sold  a  6.2%  interest  in  Vostock  Ruda,  an  available-for-sale  investment,  to  entities  under  common  control  for  consideration  of  US$5,613,000, resulting in a gain on disposal of US$4,714,000. The consideration was received in full during 2007.
In 2006 the Group sold a 90.6% interest in its then subsidiary Vostock Ruda to entities under common control for consideration of  US$9,474,000, resulting in a loss on disposal of US$3,524,000. As at 31 December 2006, of the total consideration, US$4,383,000 was received  during  2006  and  US$5,091,000  remained  unpaid  and  is  included  in  the  comparative  of  current  assets  within  other  receivables  (note  24).  As  part  of the disposal of Vostock Ruda loans totalling US$19,347,741 to entities under common control were disposed of.
Distributions under 50/50 tax rulings
Prior  to  the  listing  on  15  June  2007  the  Group  made  distributions  totalling  US$6,569,000  (31  December  2006:  US$21,190,000)  under  the  50/50  Swiss  tax  ruling  to  the  ultimate  beneficial  owner.  The  ruling  allows  for  a  qualifying  company  to  distribute  a  percentage  of  its  profits  free  of  tax.  On listing the Group no longer qualifies for this tax treatment.
Share buyback
During  the  year  ended  31  December  2007,  Ferrexpo  AG  entered  into  a  share  buyback  arrangement  with  its  then  shareholder,  Collaton  Limited,  under  which  Ferrexpo  AG  repurchased  5,178,877  shares  of  CHF1  each  in  exchange  for  cash  in  a  number  of  transactions  which  took  place  between 13 February and 18 May 2007. The total consideration paid under the arrangement was US$64,055,329.
Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 97 Financial statements
Banking transactions
The financing of the Group is principally undertaken with third party financial institutions outside of Ukraine. The Group also operates  transactional banking arrangements with a financial institution in Ukraine under common control which were undertaken in a transparent  manner at arm’s length.
Ferrexpo AG share issue
On 24 August 2006 Ferrexpo AG issued 135,123,800 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of CHF1 to an entity under common control    at par for cash consideration of US$109,329,000  Acquisition of minority interest in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation
During 2006 Ferrexpo AG acquired a further 25.6% of the voting rights of Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation for consideration of  US$238,986,000 of which US$231,945,000 was settled in cash during 2006.
Purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment
During 2007 land and buildings not used by the Group were disposed of to an entity under common control for US$690,000.
The Group purchased 110 rail cars from OJSC Stahanov for US$4,965,000 during the year.
Remuneration  and  benefits  received  by  Directors  is  disclosed  in  the  Directors’  remuneration  report.  Remuneration  and  benefits  of  other  key  management personnel is given in note 40.
Note 38: Reconciliation of profit before income tax to net cash flow from operating activities
                  Year   Year
                  ended  ended
US$000                   31.12.07  31.12.06
Profit  before  income  tax                    160,760  80,737
Adjustments  for:    Depreciation  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  and  amortisation  of  intangible  assets        28,265  28,563
Interest  expense                  24,488  27,425
Interest  income                    (3,242) (2,326)
Dividend  income                    –  (17)
Movement  in  allowance  for  doubtful  receivables              336  183
Loss  on  disposal  of  property,  plant  and  equipment                –  601
Write-off  and  impairment  losses                 1,568  2,021
Site  restoration  provision                    1,269  –
(Gains)/losses  on  disposal  of  investments  available  for  sale            (4,714)  31
Losses  from  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  associates                –  3,524
Initial  public  offering  costs                   34,004  –
Share  of  income  from  associates                  (687)  –
Defined  benefit  plan  expense                    3,915  3,163
Foreign  exchange  loss                    3,467  645
Operating cash flow before working capital changes            249,429    144,550  Changes  in  working  capital
Decrease/(increase)  in  trade  accounts  receivable  and  other  receivables            13,951  (38,658)
(Increase)/decrease  in  inventories                (7,840)  9,237
Increase/(decrease)  in  trade  and  other  accounts  payable            6,534  (2,467)
(Increase)/decrease  in  other  taxes  receivable              (14,411)  –
Operating cash flows after working capital changes            247,663    112,662  Interest  paid                    (24,525)  (28,119)
Income  tax  paid                    (32,018)  (14,562)
Post  employment  benefits  paid                 (2,274)  (1,681)
Net cash flows from operating activities                188,846    68,300    Note 39: Net financial indebtedness
                  As at  As  at
US$000                   Notes 31.12.07  31.12.06
Cash  and  cash  equivalents                  28  86,966  16,236
Term  deposits                  27  –  11,043
Current  borrowings                  31  (54,537)  (81,243)
Non-current  borrowings                  31  (146,091)  (204,732)
Short  term  due  for  equipment                  32  (1,664)  (9,300)
Long  term  due  for  equipment                  32  (2,569)  (10,462)
Net financial indebtedness                  (117,895)  (278,458) Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 98 Financial statements
Note 39: Net financial indebtedness continued
Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest bearing loans and borrowings  and amounts payable for equipment.
Payables  for  equipment  comprised  balances  due  to  foreign  suppliers  for  mining  equipment  denominated  in  US  dollar  and  euros  which  are  interest bearing.
Note 40: Employee benefits expense
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Wages  and  salaries                  65,885  56,178
Social  security  costs                  17,369  18,373
Post  employment  benefits                    2,417  1,916
Other  employee  costs                  5,175  4,147
                     90,846    80,614  Wages and  salary costs of US$65,885,000 includes US$19,556,000 of costs included within initial public offering costs. Social security costs of  US$17,369,000 includes US$1,863,000 of social security costs included within initial public offering costs.
Average number of employees
                    Year   Year
                    ended   ended
Number                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Production                    7,796  8,541
Marketing  and  distribution                    185  185
Administration                  2,131  2,624
                   10,112  11,350  Compensation for key management was as follows:
                    Year   Year
                  ended  ended
US$000                   31.12.07  31.12.06
Wages  and  salaries                  15,589  1,420
Social  security  costs                  2,236  –
Other  employee  costs                  8,721  3,508
                     26,546  4,928
Note 41: Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
                    As at   As  at
US$000                  31.12.07    31.12.06
Capital  commitments  on  purchase  of  property,  plant  and  equipment          60,904 11,111
Guarantees  provided                  335,000  12,185
Taxation
Ukrainian  legislation  and  regulations  regarding  taxation  and  custom  regulations  continue  to  evolve.  Legislation  and  regulations  are  not  always  clearly  written  and  are  subject  to  varying  interpretations  and  inconsistent  enforcement  by  local,  regional  and  national  authorities,  and  other  governmental  bodies.  Instances  of  inconsistent  interpretations  are  not  unusual.  The  uncertainty  of  application  and  the  evolution  of  Ukrainian  tax  laws,  including  those  affecting  cross  border  transactions,  create  a  risk  of  additional  tax  payments  having  to  be  made  by  the  Group,  which  could  have  a  material  effect  on  the  Group’s  financial  position  and  results  of  operations.  The  Group  does  not  believe  that  these  risks  are  any  more  significant  than  those  of  similar  groups  with  operations  in  Ukraine.  Management’s  assessment  of  these  risks  remains  unchanged  from  that disclosed at 31 December 2006.  Management is of the opinion that the Group has applied an appropriate interpretation of relevant legislation, has complied with all  regulations  and  paid  or  accrued  all  taxes  and  withholdings  as  applicable.  However,  due  to  the  complexities  of  the  local  tax  legislation  where  the Group operates it is possible that the tax basis of certain transactions undertaken by the Group may be challenged, which    may mean that the Group incurs additional tax liabilities, the quantum of which is not practical to determine.  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 99 Financial statements
Note 42: Financial instruments
Credit risk
Exposure to credit risk
The  carrying  amount  of  financial  assets  represents  the  maximum  credit  exposure.  The  maximum  exposure  to  credit  risk  at  the  reporting  date  was:
                  As at   As  at
US$000                    31.12.07   31.12.06
Cash  and  term  deposits                  86,966  27,279
Trade  receivables                  43,575  58,284
VAT  receivable                  52,037  42,129
Other  financial  assets                    10,650  1,424
Available-for-sale  financial  assets                50,075  36,092
Total maximum exposure to credit risk                243,303     165,208
The Group’s most significant customer accounts for US$12,437,000 (2006: US$7,845,000).  Impairment losses
The ageing of trade and VAT receivables at the reporting date was:
           As at 31 December 2007
      Current 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 to 12 Greater than
US$000       debtors months months months 12 months Total 
Trade  and  other  receivables             33,694 8,453 741 738 350 43,976
Associated  Impairment  Provision          – – (66) (90) (245) (401)
          33,694 8,453 675 648 105 43,575
VAT receivable          37,774 – – 13,555 708 52,037
                   As  at  31  December  2006
            Current   1  to  3  3  to  6  6  to  12  Greater  than
            debtors  months  months  months  12  months  Total  Trade  and  other  receivables            41,197  16,421  683  24  24  58,349
Associated  Impairment  Provision          –  –  (48)  (9)  (8)  (65)
            41,197  16,421  635  15  16  58,284
VAT receivable            27,263  –  –  14,866  –  42,129
Liquidity risk
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type:
             As at 31 December 2007
                Less Between Between
                than 1 to 2 2 to 5
US$000               1 year years  years Total
Interest bearing
Ukrainian  banks  (fixed  rate  interest)              738 738 1,840 3,316
Other  banks  (floating  rate  interest)            53,532 71,715 71,715 196,962
Related  party  banks                – – – –
Promissory  notes  (fixed  rate  interest)              253 83 – 336
Due  for  equipment  (fixed  rate  interest)            1,664 2,569 – 4,233
Interest  accrued                14 – – 14
Non-interest bearing
Trade  and  other  payables               23,463 14 – 23,477
Share  redemption  liability                10,036 – – 10,036
Other  financial  liabilities                7,229 – – 7,229
Total cash flow maturity                96,929 75,119 73,555 245,603 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 100 Financial statements
Note 42: Financial instruments continued
                 As  at  31  December  2006
                Less  Between  Between
                  than  1  to  2  2  to  5
US$000                  1  year  years    years  Total
Interest bearing  Ukrainian  banks  (fixed  rate  interest)              73,781  30,175  6,333  110,289
Other  banks  (floating  rate  interest)              7,411  36,948  124,076  168,435
Related  party  banks  (fixed  rate  interest)              –  –  7,200  7,200
Promissory  notes  (fixed  rate  interest)              –  –  –  –
Due  for  equipment  (fixed  rate  interest)              9,300  7,259  3,203  19,762
Interest  accrued                51  –  –  51
Non-interest bearing          Trade  and  other  payables                12,192  22  –  12,214
Share  redemption  liability                –  9,062  –  9,062
Other  financial  liabilities                9,132  –  –  9,132
Total cash flow maturity                111,867  83,466  140,812  336,145
Currency risk
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
        As at 31 December 2007
     Ukraine    Russian Swiss Other
US$000     hyrivna US dollar Euro  rouble franc currencies Total
Financial assets        121,220 121,219 – 29 308 527 243,303
Financial liabilities              Ukrainian  banks          –  (3,316)  –  –  –  –  (3,316)
Other  banks          –  (196,962)  –  –  –  –  (196,962)
Related  party  banks          –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Promissory  notes          (336)  –  –  –  –  –  (336)
Interest  accrued          –  (14)  –  –  –  –  (14)
Borrowings     (336) (200,292) – – – – (200,628)
Due  for  equipment          –  (690)  (3,543)  –  –  –  (4,233)
Trade  and  other  payables          (12,393)  (6,266)  (3,383)  –  (589)  (846)  (23,477)
Share  redemption  liability          –  (10,036)  –  –  –  –  (10,036)
Other  financial  liabilities          (5,221)  –  –  –  (2,008)  –  (7,229)
Total financial liabilities        (17,950) (217,284) (6,926) – (2,597) (846) (245,603)
Net financial assets/(liabilities)        103,270 (96,065) (6,926) 29 (2,289) (319) (2,300)
                As  at  31  December  2006
          Ukraine       Russian  Swiss  Other
US$000          hyrivna  US  dollar  Euro   rouble  franc  currencies  Total
Financial assets     114,281  50,693  4  –  173  57  165,208
Financial liabilities
Ukrainian  banks          –  (109,564)  (725)  –  –  –  (110,289)
Other  banks          –  (168,435)  –  –  –  –  (168,435)
Related  party  banks          –  (7,200)  –  –  –  –  (7,200)
Promissory  notes          –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Interest  accrued          –  (51)  –  –  –  –  (51)
Borrowings     –  (285,250)  (725)  –  –  –  (285,975)
Due  for  equipment          –  (16,771)  (2,991)  –  –  –  (19,762)
Trade  and  other  payables          (5,625)  (5,280)  (575)  –  (93)  (641)  (12,214)
Shares  redemption  liability          –  (9,062)  –  –  –  –  (9,062)
Other  financial  liabilities          (7,166)  (1,527)  –  –  (35)  (404)  (9,132)
Total financial liabilities     (12,791)  (317,890)  (4,291)  –  (128)  (1,045)  (336,145)
Net financial assets/(liabilities)    101,490  (267,197)  (4,287)  –  45  (988)  (170,937)
  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 101 Financial statements
Interest rate risk
Profile
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments was:
         As at 31 December 2007
          Other non-
       Floating Fixed  interest
US$000             interest interest Equity bearing Total
Financial assets          Cash  and  term  deposits            78,247 8,702 – 17 86,966
Available-for-sale  investments              102 – 49,973 – 50,075
Trade  receivables              – – – 43,575 43,575
VAT  recoverable              – – – 52,037 52,037
Other  financial  assets              5,304 – – 5,346 10,650
Total financial assets            83,653 8,702 49,973 100,975 243,303
Weighted average interest rate (%)            5.0 1.5   Financial liabilities
Borrowings            196,045 4,247 – 336 200,628
Trade  and  other  financial  liabilities            4,233 – – 40,742 44,975
Total financial liability exposure           200,278 4,247  –  41,078  245,603  Weighted average interest rate (%)            7.6 8.2                       As  at  31  December  2006
                    Other  non-
              Floating  Fixed    interest
US$000                interest  interest  Equity  bearing  Total
Financial assets     
Cash  and  term  deposits              13,639  11,516  –  2,124  27,279
Available-for-sale  investments              –  –  35,995  97  36,092
Trade  receivables              –  –  –  58,284  58,284
VAT  recoverable              –  –  –  42,129  42,129
Other  financial  assets              –  –  –  1,424  1,424
Total financial assets              13,639  11,516  35,995  104,058  165,208
Weighted average interest rate (%)            2.0  2.0    Financial liabilities
Borrowings              102,742  183,233  –  –  285,975
Trade  and  other  financial  liabilities            19,762  –  –  30,408  50,170
Total financial liability exposure            122,504   183,233  –  30,408    336,145
Weighted average interest rate (%)            8.3  9.2      The interest rate maturity profile for financial liabilities is shown under the liquidity risk section. The interest rate maturity profile for financial  assets  is  all  current  for  both  years,  except  for  US$4,000,000  of  the  floating  rate  loan  to  associate  which  matures  between  two  to  five  years  as  at  31  December  2007  (2006:  US$nil)  and  US$14,000  of  promissory  notes  attracting  no  interest,  which  matures  between  one  to  two  years  (2006:  US$14,000, between two to five years). Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 102 Financial statements
Note 42: Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis
A  5%  strengthening  of  the  US  dollar  against  the  following  currencies  at  31  December  2007  would  have  increased/(decreased)  equity  and  profit  and loss by the amounts shown below. This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is  performed on the same basis for 2006.
                  As at  As  at
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
UAH                    (4,673) (3,467)
EUR                  (5,262)  215
                  (9,935)  (3,252)
A  5%  weakening  of  the  US  dollar  against  the  above  currencies  would  have  an  equal  but  opposite  effect  to  the  amounts  shown  above,  on  the  basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The  Group  does  not  account  for  any  fixed  rate  financial  assets  and  liabilities  at  fair  value  through  profit  and  loss,  and  the  Group  does  not  hold  any derivatives (e.g. interest rate swaps). Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity for fixed and variable rate instruments
An  increase  of  100  basis  points  (‘bp’)  in  interest  rates  would  have  increased/(decreased)  equity  and  profit  or  loss  by  the  amounts  shown  below.  This  analysis  assumes  that  all  other  variables,  in  particular  foreign  currency  rates,  remain  constant.  The  analysis  is  performed  on  the  same  basis  for 2006.
                  Year  Year
                  ended  ended
US$000                  31.12.07  31.12.06
Net  finance  charge                    (3,182)  (3,391)
A  decrease  of  100  bp  would  have  an  equal  but  opposite  effect  to  the  amounts  shown  above,  on  the  basis  that  all  the  other  variables  remain  constant.
Set  out  below  is  the  comparison  by  category  of  carrying  amounts  and  fair  values  of  all  the  Group’s  financial  instruments  that  are  carried  in  the  consolidated balance sheet:
 Carrying  amount    Fair  value
                As at  As  at  As at  As  at
US$000                31.12.07  31.12.06  31.12.07  31.12.06
Financial assets        
Available-for-sale  investments              50,075 36,092 50,075  36,092
Short  term  deposits  with  banks                –  11,043  –  11,043
Cash  and  cash  equivalents                86,966  16,236  86,966 16,236
                  Financial liabilities        
 Interest  bearing  loans  and  borrowings            200,628 285,975 200,628 285,975
The fair values of interest bearing loans and borrowings are based on the cash flows discounted using market interest rates.  The  fair  values  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  trade  and  other  receivables  and  payables  are  approximately  equal  to  their  carrying  amounts  due  to their short maturity.
Note 43: Share-based payments
Listing bonus share award
Share  awards  were  granted  in  the  year  to  certain  senior  management  following  the  successful  listing  of  the  Company  on  the  London  Stock  Exchange  in  June  2007.  A  proportion  of  the  award  vests  immediately  with  the  remainder  vesting  over  a  period  of  up  to  four  years,  provided  that the individual is still in the employment of the Group on the date of vesting. It has been assumed that all awards will vest.
The  fair  value  of  the  awards  were  determined  to  be  the  closing  share  price  on  the  date  of  award.  The  weighted  average  fair  value  (WAFV)  of  awards granted was determined at the date of grant to be US$3.33 per share.
The unvested portion of the award does not accrue dividends. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The expense recognised under the scheme during the year to 31 December 2007 is US$9,124,000 (2006: US$nil), all of which arose from equity-
settled share-based payment transactions.
                2007  2006                    WAFV  WAFV  2007  2006
                $  $  No.  No.
Beginning  of  the  year                –  –  –  –
Award  granted  during  the  year                3.33  – 4,166  –
Vested  during  the  year              2.92  –  (1,763)  –
Outstanding  at  end  of  year                 3.63  – 2,403  –
  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 103 Financial statements
Note 44: Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
US$000                    2007  2006
Less  than  one  year                  1,035  592
Between  one  and  five  years                  3,617  3,242
More  than  five  years                  9,092  6,403
                  13,744  10,237
During  the  year  ended  31  December  2007  US$610,000  was  recognised  as  an  expense  in  the  income  statement  in  respect  of  operating  leases  (2006: US$556,000).
The  Group  leases  land  and  buildings  under  operating  leases.  The  lease  on  land  typically  runs  for  49  years,  with  a  lease  period  of  five  to  10  years  on buildings.
Note 45: Operating profit by function
            Before      Before              adjusting Adjusting Year ended  adjusting  Adjusting  Year  ended
US$000          Notes  items items 31.12.07  items  items  31.12.06
Revenue          5  698,216 – 698,216  547,310  –  547,310
Cost  of  sales          6  (335,936) – (335,936)  (296,720)  –  (296,720)
Gross  profit             362,280 – 362,280  250,590  –  250,590
Selling  and  distribution  expenses        7  (100,614) – (100,614)  (86,376)  –  (86,376)
General  and  administrative  expenses        8  (44,308) – (44,308)  (41,140)  –  (41,140)
Other  income          9  4,844 – 4,844  2,583  –  2,583
Other  expenses           10  (5,096) (35,572) (40,668)  (5,078)  (2,205)  (7,283)
Operating  profit             217,106 (35,572) 181,534  120,579  (2,205)  118,374
Net  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiary          – – –  –  (3,524)  (3,524)
Gain  on  disposal  of  available-for-sale  investment        – 4,714 4,714  –  –  –
Share  of  gains  of  associates          20  687 – 687  –  –  –
Total  profit  from  operations  and  associates        217,793 (30,858) 186,935  120,579  (5,729)  114,850
Summary of adjusting items:
                     Year   Year
                  ended   ended
US$000                  Notes  31.12.07   31.12.06
Operating adjusting items      Write-offs  and  impairment  losses                11  (1,568)  (2,205)
Initial  public  offering  costs                  13 (34,004)  –
                  (35,572)  (2,205)
Non-operating adjusting items      Net  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiary                12  –  (3,524)
Gain  on  disposal  of  available-for-sale  investment              12 4,714  –
                    4,714  (3,524)
Adjusting items are defined in note 16.
Note 46: Subsequent events
No  material  adjusting  or  non-adjusting  events  have  occurred  subsequent  to  the  year  end,  other  than  the  proposed  dividend  disclosed  in  note  16. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 104 Financial statements
Note 47: Financial statements of the parent company
a) Balance sheet of the company, Ferrexpo plc
                    As at   As  at
US$000                  Notes  31.12.07  31.12.06  Assets   
Fixed  asset  investments                  47c 134,732  –
Deferred  income  taxes                  47d  6,743  –
Total non-current assets                    141,475  –
Amounts  due  from  subsidiaries                   131,817  –
Prepayments  and  other  current  assets                  80  –
Other  taxes  recoverable  and  prepaid                  8  –
Marketable  securities                    102  –
Cash  and  cash  equivalents                     233  –
Total current assets                  132,240  –
Total assets                    273,715  –
Equity and liabilities
Share  capital                  47b  121,628  –
Share  premium                  47b 188,566  –
Employee  Benefit  Trust  reserve                 47b  (20,092)  –
Retained  loss                  47b  (17,401)  –
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent            47b  272,701  –
            Trade  and  other  payables                     141  –
Accrued  liabilities  and  deferred  income                  749  –
Income  taxes  payable                    124  –
Total liabilities                     1,014  –
Total equity and liabilities                   273,715  –
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 April 2008.
Mike Oppenheimer Chris Mawe
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer  Notes to the consolidated financial information continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 105 Financial statements
Note 47: Financial statements of the parent company continued
b) Statement of changes in equity
                  Employee                    Benefit                Issued  Share  Trust  Retained  Total
US$000                capital  premium  reserve  earnings  equity
At 31 December 2006              –  –  –  –  –
Profit  for  the  period              –  –  –  (17,401)  (17,401)
Items recognised directly in equity:     
Share  issue  in  parent  company             121,628  215,275  –  –  336,903
Transaction  costs  associated  with  issue  of  shares          –  (31,888)  –  –  (31,888)
Deferred  tax  on  transaction  costs            –  5,179  –  –  5,179
Treasury  shares  issued  to  Employee  Benefit  Trust          –  –  (29,216)  –  (29,216)
Share-based  payment              –  –  9,124  –  9,124
At 31 December 2007              121,628  188,566  (20,092)  (17,401)  272,701
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was US$7,000 (2006: US$nil).
c) Fixed asset investments
                      Investment                        in  subsidiary  US$000                      equity
At  31  December  2005  and  2006                    –
Additions                       134,732
At  31  December  2007                      134,732
d) Deferred tax asset
Deferred income tax assets at 31 December 2007 relate to the following:
                    Year   Year
                    ended  ended
US$000                    31.12.07  31.12.06
Deferred  income  tax  assets:    Tax  loss  recognised                    1,564 –
IPO  costs                 5,179  –
                     6,743    –
e) Subsequent events
On  27  February  2008,  a  dividend  of  CHF82,000,000  (US$75,423,000)  was  received  by  the  Company  from  its  wholly owned  subsidiary  Ferrexpo  AG. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 106 Financial statements
Basis of preparation
The parent company financial statements of Ferrexpo plc are  presented as required by the Companies Act 1985 and were approved  for  issue  on  8  April  2008.  The  financial  statements  are  prepared  under  the historical cost convention and are prepared in accordance with  applicable accounting standards. No profit and loss account is  presented by the Company as permitted by section 230 of the  Companies Act 1985.
The  Company  has  taken  advantage  of  the  exemption  in  paragraph  2D  of  FRS  29  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Disclosures’  and  has  not  disclosed  information required by that standard, as the Group’s consolidated  financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide  equivalent disclosures for the Group under    IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that  have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where  transactions  or  events  have  occurred  at  that  date  that  will  result  in  an  obligation  to  pay  more,  or  a  right  to  pay  less  or  to  receive  more,  tax,  with the exceptions of tax losses, where deferred tax assets are  recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is  more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from  which  the  future  reversal  of  the  underlying  timing  differences  can  be  deducted.  Deferred  tax  is  measured  on  an  undiscounted  basis  at  the  tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing  differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or  substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies
The  Company’s  functional  currency  and  presentation  currency  is  US  dollars.  Transactions  in  foreign  currencies  are  initially  recorded  in  the  functional  currency  by  applying  the  spot  exchange  rate  ruling  at  the  date  of  the  transaction.  Monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate  of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items  that  are  measured  in  terms  of  historical  cost  in  a  foreign  currency  are  translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial  transactions.  Non-monetary  items  measured  at  fair  value  in  a  foreign  currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when  the fair value was determined.  Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to  the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss;  loans  and  receivables;  held-
to-maturity investments; or as available-for-sale financial assets, as  appropriate. The Company determines the classification of its  financial assets at initial recognition and where allowed and  appropriate  re-evaluates  this  designation  at  each  financial  year  end.  When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at  fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial  assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable  transaction costs. The Company considers whether a contract  contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a  party to it. The embedded derivatives are separated from the risk  contract which is not measured at fair value through profit or loss  when  the  analysis  shows  that  the  economic  characteristics  and  risks  of  embedded  derivatives  are  not  closely  related  to  those  of  the  host  contract. Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of  the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would  otherwise be required. The Company has no financial assets classified  as  available  for  sale,  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  held  for  trading  or held to maturity in the current or prior periods. All regular way  purchases  and  sales  of  financial  assets  are  recognised  on  the  trade  date, being the date that the Company commits to purchase or sell  the  asset.  Regular  way  transactions  require  delivery  of  assets  within  the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in  the marketplace. The subsequent measurement of financial assets  Accounting policies
depends on their classification, as follows.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with    fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active  market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been  designated  as  either  fair  value  through  profit  and  loss  or  available  for  sale. Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective  interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and  losses  are  recognised  in  income  when  the  loans  and  receivables  are  derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation  process.  Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial  asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and  receivables  carried  at  amortised  cost  has  been  incurred,  the  amount  of  the  loss  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows  (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred)  discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e.  the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  is  reduced,  with  the  amount  of  the  loss  recognised in administration costs. If, in a subsequent period, the  amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be  related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was  recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.  Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the  profit and loss account, to the extent that the carrying value of the  asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the  contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.  Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the  same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an  existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or  modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability    and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in    the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees  incurred are recognised in profit or loss.  Share-based payments
Equity-settled transactions
The  cost  of  equity-settled  transactions  with  employees  is  measured  by  reference  to  the  fair  value  at  the  date  of  grant  and  are  recognised  as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on  which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.  Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share  price on the day of grant.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any  vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the  shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest,  except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market  condition,  which  are  treated  as  vesting  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  the  market  condition  is  satisfied,  provided  that  all  other  performance  conditions are satisfied.
At  each  balance  sheet  date  before  vesting,  the  cumulative  expense  is  calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has  expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or  otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity  instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument  subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 107 Financial statements
above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous  balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a  corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new  award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the  cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised  over  the  original  vesting  period.  In  addition,  an  expense  is  recognised  over  the  remainder  of  the  new  vesting  period  for  the  incremental  fair  value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair  value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award,  both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is  recognised if this difference is negative. Where an equity-settled  award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of  cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income  statement  for  the  award  is  expensed  immediately.  Any  compensation  paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or  settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair  value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Employee benefit trust reserve
Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Company are classified in    capital and reserves, as ‘Employee Benefit Trust reserves’ and  recognised  at  cost.  Consideration  received  for  the  sale  of  such  shares  is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the  proceeds  from  sale  and  the  original  cost  taken  to  revenue  reserves.  No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale issue or  cancellation of equity shares.
Accounting policies Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 108
Glossary
AGM
The  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  to  be  held  on  Thursday  15 May 2008
Audit Committee
The audit committee of the Company’s Board
BF
Blast furnace
BFP
Blast furnace pellets
BIP
Business Improvement Programme
Board
The board of directors of the Company
BOF
Basic oxygen furnace
bt
Billion tonnes
Capital employed
The aggregate of equity attributable to shareholders, minority  interests and borrowings  CFR
Delivery including cost and freight
CI costs
Cash  costs  per  tonne  of  pellets,  ex-works,  excluding  administrative  and distribution costs
CIF
Delivery including cost, insurance and freight
CIS
The Commonwealth of Independent States
Combined Code
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the  Financial Reporting Council in June 2006  Company
Ferrexpo  plc,  a  public  company  incorporated  in  England  and  Wales  with limited liability
Concentrate
Material  which  has  been  processed  to  increase  the  percentage  of  the  valuable mineral to facilitate transportation and downstream  processing
CPI
Consumer Price Index
CSR
Corporate Social Responsibility
CSR Committee
The corporate social responsibility committee of the Board of the  Company
DAF
Delivered at frontier
Directors
The directors of the Company
Dragline excavators
Heavy  excavators  used  to  excavate  material.  A  dragline  consists  of  a  large bucket which is suspended from a boom
DTP
DTP Terassement S.A. (France)
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation  EPS
Earnings per share
Executive Committee
The executive committee of the Company’s Board
Executive Directors
The executive directors of the Company
Fe
Iron
Fe yield
A qualitative measure that is calculated by the percentage of    Fe (quantity) contained in ore which results in concentrate
Ferrexpo
Ferrexpo plc
Ferrexpo AG Group
Ferrexpo AG and its subsidiaries including Ferrexpo Poltava
Ferrexpo Poltava
Ferrexpo  Poltava  GOK  Corporation,  a  company  incorporated  under  the laws of Ukraine
Fevamotinico S.a.r.l.
A company incorporated with limited liability in Luxembourg
FOB
Free on board  FPM
Ferrexpo Poltava Mine
FSU
The former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
FSU Classification
The classification system and estimation methods for reserves and  resources established by FSU and last revised in 1981
FTSE 250
Financial Times Stock Exchange top 250 companies
GAAP
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice  GDP
Gross Domestic Product of the Republic of the Ukraine
Global offering
The listing of the Company’s Ordinary Shares on the London Stock  Exchange announced on 15 June 2007
GPL
Gorishne, Plavninskoye and Lavrikovskoye mine
Group
The Company and its subsidiaries
Glossary Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 109
HSE
Health, safety and environmental
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IASB
International Accounting Standards Board
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU
IPO
Initial public offering
Iron ore concentrate
Product of the flotation process with an enriched iron content
Iron ore fines
Fine ground iron ore  Iron ore pellets
Dried and hardened agglomerate of iron ore concentrate, whose  physical properties are well suited for transportation and  downstream processing in a blast furnace
kg
kilogramme
kt
kilotonnes
kw
kilowatt
kWh
kilowatt hour
LIBOR
The London Inter Bank Offered Rate
Listing
The  admission  of  the  Companies  securities  to  the  Main  Market  of  the  London Stock Exchange on 15 June 2007
Listing Rules
Rules relating to the admission to the official List maintained by the  Financial Services Authority in accordance with the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000
LLC
Limited Liability Company
LSE
London Stock Exchange
LTIFR
Long term Injury Frequency Rate
LTIP
The long term incentive plan
Lump iron ore
In mining, the term given to naturally occurring high-grade iron ore;  consists of: (1) soft ore, such as porous hematite and limonite  (goethite)  with  minor  magnetite  and  manganese  oxides;  and  (2)  hard  ores, such as compact, fine-grained, steel-gray hematite, specular  hematite, magnetite, or martite
Magnetite ore
A form of iron ore that is metallic, black and strongly ferromagnetic,  and therefore susceptible to processing using magnetic separation  techniques
mm
millimetre
m
3
Cubic metre
mt
Million tonnes
mtpa
Million tonnes per annum
Nominations Committee
The nominations committee of the Company’s Board
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive directors of the Company
OH&S
Occupational Health & Safety
OHSAS 18000
International Safety Standard ‘Occupational Health & Safety  Management System Specification’
Open pit
Surface mining in which the ore is extracted from a pit of quarry
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company
Ore
A mineral or mineral aggregate containing precious or useful  minerals  in  such  quantities,  grade  and  chemical  combination  to  make  extraction economic
Output of weight
A  quantitative  measure  which  is  the  amount  of  concentrate  obtained  from one tonne of ore
Pig iron
Crude iron obtained directly from the blast furnace and cast    in moulds
PPI
Ukranian Producer Price Index
Probable reserves
Those measured and/or indicated mineral resources which are not  yet ‘proved’, but of which detailed technical and economic studies  have  demonstrated  that  extraction  can  be  justified  at  the  time  of  the  determination and under specific economic conditions  Proved reserves
Measured mineral resources of which detailed technical and  economic studies have demonstrated that extraction can    be  justified  at  the  time  of  determination  and  under  specific  economic  conditions
Relationship agreement
The relationship agreement entered into among Fevamotinico    S.a.r.l., Kostyantyn Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company  Glossary Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 110 Glossary
Remuneration Committee
The remuneration committee of the Company’s Board
Reserves
Those parts of mineral resources for which sufficient information is  available to enable detailed or conceptual mine planning and for  which  such  planning  has  been  undertaken.  Reserves  are  classified  as  either proved or probable  ROCE
Return  on  capital  employed,  defined  as  profit  before  taxation,  finance  items and negative goodwill over capital employed
$/t
US dollars per tonne
Sinter
A porous aggregate charged directly to the blast furnace which is  normally produced by firing relatively courser fine iron ore, other  materials, and coke breeze as the heat source
Slag
Solid waste matter left when metal has been separated from ore    by smelting
Slurry
Suspension of solids in liquid
Smelting
Thermal process whereby molten metal is liberated from a  concentrate, with impurities separating into a lighter slag  Spot price
The current price of a metal for immediate delivery
Sterling/£
UK pound the currency of the United Kingdom
Strip ratio
The ratio between the volume of overburden compared to the  tonnage of ore mined
Tailings
The waste material produced from ore after economically  recoverable metals or minerals have been extracted. Changes in  metal  prices  and  improvements  in  technology  can  sometimes  make  the tailings economic to process at a later date
TIS-Ruda
Ukrainian port facility on the Black Sea
Tolling
The  process  by  which  a  customer  supplies  concentrate  to  a  smelter  and the smelter invoices the customer the smelting    charge, and possibly a refining charge, and then returns the    metal to the customer  Ton
A US short ton, equal to 0.9072 metric tonnes
tonne or t
Metric tonne
Ukraine
The Republic of the Ukraine
Underlying earnings
An  alternative  measure  which  the  Directors  believe  provided  a  clearer  picture of the underlying financial performance of the Group’s  operations.  Underlying  earnings  is  presented  as  profit  attributable  to  equity  shareholders  before  adjusted  items.  Adjusted  items  are  those  items of financial performance that the Group believes should be  separately  disclosed  on  the  face  of  the  income  statement  to  assist  in  the  understanding  of  the  underlying  financial  performance  achieved  by the Group. Adjusted items that relate to the operating  performance  of  the  Group  include  impairment  charges  and  reversals  and other exceptional items. Non-operating adjusting items include  profits  and  losses  of  investments  and  businesses  as  well  as  IPO  costs
Underlying profit
Profit  for  the  year  after  adding  back  items  which  are  non-recurring  or  variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading  performance of the business and their resultant tax and minority  interest effects
UAH
Ukranian hyrivna, the currency of the Republic of the Ukraine
UGOK
The name of a separate management company formed temporarily  to administer the three major growth projects
UkrSEPRO
The  quality  certification  system  in  Ukraine,  regulated  by  law  to  ensure  conformity with safety and environmental standards
US$ or dollars
United States dollars, the currency of the United States of America
Value in use
The implied value of a material to an end user to use one material  relative to other options, e.g. comparing performance of several  types  of  iron  ore  pellets  into  a  blast  furnace;  taking  into  account  the  delivered cost of a material and rates relative to other competition  materials on a quality and landed cost adjusted basis
WMS
Wet magnetic separation
WTO
World Trade Organisation
Glossary continued Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 111 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 111 Financial statements
Notes Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 112 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 112 Financial statements Financial statements Ferrexpo is a resources company  
listed on the London Stock  
Exchange and a member of  
the FTSE 250 index.
Ferrexpo is headquartered in Switzerland,  
with its principal operating assets in Ukraine.  
The Company is primarily involved in the  
production and export of iron ore pellets,  
used in producing steel. 
We are committed to realising the potential  
of one of the largest iron ore resources in the  
world, and aim to be recognised as a leading  
global supplier of iron ore pellets, providing  
outstanding service to our customers and  
strong returns to our shareholders.
Company overview
IFC Activity and mission 
statements
01 Operational and financial 
highlights
02 Ferrexpo at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s 
review
12 Chief Executive Officer’s 
questions and answers
14 Board of Directors and 
Executive Committee
Business review
18 Overview
19 Market environment
20 Supply
21 Performance review
22 Business Improvement 
Programme
23 Growth projects
25  Marketing
28  Risks
30  Financial review
33 Key performance 
indicators
Sustainable development 
review
36 Commitment
37 Health and safety
40  Environment
43  Employees
44  Communities
Corporate governance
46 Corporate Governance 
report
51  Remuneration report
57  Directors’ report
62 Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
63 Independent auditors’ 
report
Financial statements
64 Accounts and notes
108 Glossary
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in nature, particularly relating to the business, strategy, investments, 
production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of the Ferrexpo Group  
and its current goals, assumptions and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results. 
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual 
results, performance or achievements of the Ferrexpo Group to be materially different from any future results, performance  
or achievements expressed in or implied by such forward looking statements. Past performance is no guide to future performance, and 
persons in need of advice should consult an independent financial adviser.  
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report. 
Except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, Ferrexpo undertakes no obligation to 
update or change any forward looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this document. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. Ferrexpo plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Positioned for growth
Ferrexpo plc
Registered Office:
2-4 King Street
London
SW1Y 6QL
www.ferrexpo.com
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
