 Fiberweb PLC  
ANNUAL rePOr T AND FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS 2008
08
Tailored nonwoven fabric solutions TM indicates a trade mark of Fiberweb plc or a Fiberweb Group company, many of which are registered in a 
number of countries around the world. 
Typar is a brand name for a specific family of fabrics used primarily in North and South America. 
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking statements involve 
known and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, 
performance or achievements of Fiberweb and the Group to be materially different from any future results, 
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Shareholders are 
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this 
Annual Report. Except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable 
law, Fiberweb undertakes no obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reflect events 
occurring after the date of this document.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    1 
2 FINANCIAL RESULTS   
3 HIgHLIgHTS
4 OUR OPERATIONS AT A gLANCE
6 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
8 CHIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEw
11 BUSINESS REvIEw
25 FINANCIAL REvIEw
34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
36 FIBERwEB ExECUTIvE TEAM
37 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
40 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE
 
45 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION   
 REPORT
51 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
 RESPONSIBILITIES
52 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’   
 REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF   
 FIBERwEB PLC
53 CONSOLIDATED INCOME   
 STATEMENT
54 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
55 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOw   
 STATEMENT
56 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF  
 RECOgNISED INCOME AND   
 ExPENSE
57  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED   
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’   
 REPORT TO THE MEMBERS   
 OF FIBERwEB PLC
100 COMPANy BALANCE SHEET
101 NOTES TO THE COMPANy   
 BALANCE SHEET
107 FOUR yEAR REvIEw
108 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CONTENTS
Fiberweb is one of the world’s largest and leading suppliers of 
speciality nonwoven fabrics. Nonwoven materials developed, 
manufactured and marketed by Fiberweb are used in a wide 
variety of everyday products such as filters, baby diapers, 
construction products and feminine care. 
with vast experience in its field and a strong international 
presence, Fiberweb has long been regarded as a technological 
innovator with a strong portfolio of intellectual property and as 
a preferred partner for customers focused on high quality and 
reliable supply. 2    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
£ millions (unless stated otherwise) 2008 2007 
results from continuing underlying
(1)
 operations:  
Revenue 512.8 473.6
Underlying
(1)
 Operating Profit  18.8 13.8
Underlying
(1)
 Profit before Tax  9.0 3.0
Adjusted Earnings per Share 
(2)
 7.4p 2.6p
  
results after restructuring and other non-recurring items:  
Operating Loss from Continuing Operations  (15.4) (89.3)
Basic Loss per share from Continuing Operations (18.0)p (76.3)p
Proposed Final Dividend 2.5p 2.5p
Net Debt 149.9 137.6
 
(1)    Underlying profit measures are before restructuring charges and other non-recurring items, as set out in the Consolidated Income Statement
(2)     Adjusted to exclude restructuring charges and other non-recurring items as described in note 5
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
05 10 15 20
0246 810 0246 810
2008
2007 £473.6m
£512.8m
REVENUE 
2008
2007 £3.0m
£9.0m
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2008
2007 2.6p
7.4p
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
2008
2007 £13.8m
£18.8m
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
£ millions (unless stated otherwise)
FINANCIAL RESULTS     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    3 
•	 A solid year of recovery, with good progress in the 
turnaround programme 
•	 Stable sales at constant currency, with stability in 
Hygiene and growth in market share in Industrial
•	 High volatility in raw material pricing, but despite 
significant H2 raw material price reductions, no 
significant net impact on profitability over the year 
as a whole
•	 Third consecutive half-year of growth in underlying 
operating margin, reaching 4.0% in H2 2008
•	 36% growth in underlying operating profit (+15% 
at constant currency), with central costs reduced by 
25%
•	 Reported debt increase of £12.3 million, represents 
a reduction of £32.4 million in debt at constant 
currency with excellent working capital 
performance
•	 Satisfactory covenant headroom at year end
•	 92% growth in adjusted earnings per share to 5.0p, 
before a further 2.4p earnings benefit from tax 
credit producing total 7.4p adjusted earnings per 
share; maintained 2.5p final dividend
HIgHLIgHTS 4    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Industrial
THREE REgIONAL INDUSTRIAL  
BUSINESSES
Hygiene
TwO gLOBAL BUSINESSES 
SERvINg THE Hyg IENE INDUSTRy
050 100 150 200 250
050 100 150 200 250300 350
2008
2007 £201.2m
£194.3m
REVENUE - INDUSTRIAL 
2008
2007 £272.4m
£318.5m
REVENUE - HYGIENE
050 100 150 200 250
050 100 150 200 250300 350
2008
2007 £201.2m
£194.3m
REVENUE - INDUSTRIAL 
2008
2007 £272.4m
£318.5m
REVENUE - HYGIENE
HygIENE: T wO gLOBAL BUSINESSES
CONSUMER FABRICS
AIRLAID
HygIENE
INDUSTRIAL: THREE REgIONAL INDUSTRIAL BUSINESSES
AMERICAS INDUSTRIAL
EUROPE INDUSTRIAL
TERRAM
INDUSTRIAL
• 	 AMERICAS INDUSTRIAL 2008 was a year of 
strong recovery, with an excellent performance 
in terms of operating margin growth and 
working capital reduction.
• 		 EUROPE INDUSTRIAL Significant cost 
reductions in manufacturing at our plants in 
Berlin and Königswinter in germany. Successful 
development of new products with enhanced 
insulating properties and longevity, which are 
beginning to renew the product range.
• 	 TERRAM Responding to recessionary trends in 
the British and French construction industries, 
through improved productivity, greater sales 
efforts in higher-margin segments such as 
laminates, rail and drainage composites and 
innovation in the defence sector.
• 	 AIRLAID A strong recovery year in Asia, 
with line 1 running at record levels and the 
construction of line 2 completed, but a most 
disappointing year in Europe, with the failure 
to achieve cost targets on the new airlaid 
line in Italy leading to its closure.
• 	 CONSUMER FABRICS A strong recovery 
year in North America, with a marked 
improvement in margins following the 
restructuring actions taken in 2006 and 
2007. A difficult year in Europe, as over-
capacity in the industry led to significant 
price and volume pressure.
INDUSTRIAL OvERvIEw Hyg IENE OvERvIEw
OUR OPERATIONS AT A gLANCE
INDUSTRIAL REvENUE By DIvISION
50%
9.2
4.1
20.9
2007 
%
2008 
%
65.8
9.4
7.1
22.3
61.2
AMERICAS 
INDUSTRIAL 
BIDIM 
(disposed in June 2008)
EUROPE 
INDUSTRIAL 
TERRAM
HygIENE REv ENUE By DIvISION
50%
10.7
2007 
%
2008 
%
89.3
7.1
92.9
CONSUMER FABRICS  AIRLAID      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    5 
For residential and commercial 
applications nothing is proven to 
perform better than Fiberweb’s 
well known Typar
TM
 weather 
Protection Systems
HOUSEwRAP 
Fiberweb manufactures advanced 
filtration media under the well- 
established Reemay
TM
 brand for a 
variety of applications in filtration, 
separation and absorption
FILTRATION
Corotop
TM
, Typar
TM
roofwrap30 and 
Tekton
TM
are light weight, water 
resistant, polymeric roof underlayments 
that provide superior protection. 
Blowitex specialises in laminates and 
composites for niche applications
ROOFINg 
Specialist manufacturer of 
geotextiles under leading brands 
such as Terram
TM
 used in a variety 
of applications including drainage, 
filtration, separation  
and other industrial uses
gEOSyNTHETICS NTHETICS
North American consumers prefer 
to use impregnated fabric softener 
sheets in a tumble drier. Fiberweb is 
a leading supplier for this technically 
demanding application 
FABRIC SOFTENER SHEETS
Long term guaranteed Biobarrier
TM
 
products are made of durable 
geotextile fabric with permanently 
attached nodules containing 
trifluralin that prevent root tip  
cell division
LANDSCAPE 
Fiberweb produces a diverse range 
of other products in packaging, 
shoes and home furnishing 
applications 
INDUSTRIAL SPECIALITIES
Fiberweb makes a multitude of 
top quality, high-performance 
products for graphic arts and 
general wipes application
INDUSTRIAL w IPES 
Fiberweb manufactures a diverse range of nonwoven products for the highly fragmented industrial 
market. we are one of the leading suppliers globally for pool & spa filtration under the well known 
Reemay
TM
 brand. In the construction industry, our strong and established Typar
TM
/Tekton
TM
 and 
Terram
TM
 products are used in housewrap, roofing and geotextile applications. Fiberweb continues 
to provide superior quality products for more technically demanding and niche areas in fabric 
softener sheets and graphic arts. 
INDUSTRIAL 
Fiberweb produces top sheet, 
back sheet, barrier leg cuff and 
core cover fabrics for almost every 
diaper application
BABy DIAPERS DIAPERS
Differentiated technology to make 
acquisition distribution layer for 
feminine hygiene products
FEMININE HygIENE yg IENE
Fiberweb offers nonwoven fabrics 
for conversion into medical 
products. Our line of fabrics is 
engineered to deliver benefits 
such as protection and stability to 
sterilisation 
MEDICAL PRODUCTS PRODUCTS
New generation products like 
Softspan
TM
, with its exceptional 
softness and elongation 
properties, make it ideally  
suited for adult incontinence 
applications
ADULT INCONTINENCE INCONTINENCE
HygIENE
Fiberweb is a global leader in tailored nonwoven fabric solutions for baby and adult care, feminine 
hygiene, medical and protective apparel segments.
we offer a wide range of nonwoven technologies tailored to meet the specific needs of each and 
every customer. Today, we are helping our customers develop products which are lighter, better 
fitting, more comfortable, more aesthetic and have superior absorbent properties. 
Each family of products is engineered to offer a unique set of properties such as softness, strength, 
extensibility, absorbency or repellency which provides function, feel and fit.  6    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
2008 was a year of solid recovery for 
Fiberweb, despite extreme volatility 
in raw material prices and the 
impact of the gathering recession 
in many markets during the period. 
Financially, Fiberweb saw a much-
needed and marked improvement 
in its performance in all respects 
during the year. The Company also 
continued restructuring, improving 
its competitiveness and increasing 
productivity. Finally, a number of 
important new products and initiatives 
were developed and launched that will 
reinforce the Company’s progress in  
the future. 
Financial Results
The financial results for 2008 overall 
are very encouraging. Continuing sales 
of £504.9 million, excluding £7.9 million 
of sales from Bidim which was divested 
during the year, decreased by £7.2 
million (1.4%) at constant currency, 
as unprofitable product lines were 
eliminated. Continuing underlying 
operating profit of £18.4 million, 
excluding £0.4 million of operating 
profit from Bidim, increased by £3.3 
million (22.0%) at constant currency. 
Net cash flow from operating activities 
increased strongly to £55.9 million 
(2007: £36.9 million) through improved 
margins and a significant and sustained 
reduction in working capital. Capital 
investment of £33.6 million (2007: £32.6 
million) was maintained at a high level 
to secure the right asset mix for the 
future. The return on invested capital of 
4.3% (2007: 2.9%), while substantially 
improved, remains significantly below 
Fiberweb’s cost of capital and further 
improvement is a key objective for the 
years ahead. Debt of £149.9 million 
(2007: £137.6 million) has increased 
overall by £12.3 million as a result of 
the rapid devaluation of Sterling relative 
to the Euro and the US Dollar, which 
are the primary currencies of our debt 
and operations. On a constant currency 
basis, net debt has actually reduced 
year on year by £32.4 million, driven by 
the strong operating cash flow and the 
net proceeds from divestments.
Key Events
During the year, Fiberweb made 
significant progress in implementing 
the turnaround strategy laid out at the 
time of demerger. The portfolio was 
further simplified with the sale of the 
Company’s minority stake in SGN in 
Saudi Arabia and the disposal of the 
Company’s Brazilian business, Bidim, 
giving total net proceeds of £17.2 
million. The management structure 
of the Group was reorganised in May 
with the creation of two global business 
units to serve hygiene customers and 
three regional business units to serve 
differentiated industrial markets. 
Opportunities were taken during 
the year to strengthen the senior 
management team further, including 
the appointment of a new CFO, Daniel 
Abrams, in February 2008, and the 
appointment of new Presidents of the 
Consumer Fabrics business and the 
Americas and European Industrial 
businesses.  
The relative stability of the Hygiene 
business, comprising Airlaid and 
Consumer Fabrics, provided the Group 
with a degree of resilience during 
a period of almost unprecedented 
volatility. Volumes of these products, 
which are consumed overwhelmingly 
in the production of consumer staples 
such as baby diapers and sanitary 
towels, remained stable as production 
lines continued to be almost fully 
sold-out. There were particularly 
strong performances from the leading 
Swedish spunbond line, installed 
during 2007, in its first full year, and 
from the upgraded main airlaid line in 
China, both of which produced record 
output and productivity. Despite fairly 
stable demand, over-capacity in Europe 
for consumer fabrics emerged as a 
number of new investments came 
on-line and many products were down-
Chairman’s Statement
FINANCIALLy, FIBERw EB SAw A MUCH-
NEEDED AND MARKED IMPROvEMENT 
IN ITS PERFORMANCE IN ALL RESPECTS 
DURINg THE yEAR. THE COMPANy ALSO 
CONTINUED RESTRUCTURINg, IMPROv INg 
ITS COMPETITIvENESS AND INCREASINg 
PRODUCTIvITy.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    7 
gauged. Thanks to recent investments 
by the Group, management was able 
to react firmly with the announcement 
in January 2009 of detailed plans to 
remove uncompetitive lines at Fiberweb 
sites in Sweden, Germany and France, 
coordinated with the commissioning 
of the new Italian spunbond line in 
mid-2009. 
Though the record-breaking surge 
and then collapse in oil prices during 
the year had the predictable see-
saw impact on polypropylene prices, 
which are so crucial to the Consumer 
Fabrics business, the Company’s robust 
commercial arrangements allowed the 
vast majority of this impact to be passed 
on to customers, allowing overall margin 
expansion in this substantial business 
area.
The failure to secure a profitable future 
for the new airlaid line in Italy was a 
disappointment. Following technical 
difficulties, which resulted in higher 
operating costs than expected, it proved 
impossible to secure viable pricing and 
hence the decision was taken to close the 
facility. The second airlaid line in China 
was commissioned successfully during 
the year at the Company’s site in Tianjin, 
China, and is now beginning to operate at 
specified levels, focused on the need for 
mid-tier products for local producers of 
feminine care products.
The Industrial business was impacted 
to a much greater extent than Hygiene 
by the turmoil in many markets during 
the year, especially those serving the 
construction industry. The precipitate 
decline in house-building in the USA 
continued and was followed by Western 
European markets. In these challenging 
circumstances the performance of the 
Company’s Typar™ housewrap products 
in both US and Canadian markets 
demonstrated strong resilience, with 
market share gains in both countries and 
volumes broadly maintained. Roofing 
products in Europe did not perform as 
strongly, but the Company’s business in 
Eastern Europe continued to grow and 
is now the largest market geography for 
roofing membranes. Filtration products 
also had a strong year, demonstrating 
the resilience of a business largely based 
on replacement sales. New products for 
air filtration applications were developed 
for both European and North American 
markets. Productivity improvements were 
made in both the Americas and Europe 
Industrial businesses. In the UK, Terram 
continued the recovery apparent in 2007, 
with record output from its remaining 
production line in South Wales and 
progress in developing the sales of new 
products in rail and defence markets in 
particular.
The heavy restructuring undertaken in 
2006 and 2007 bore fruit during 2008 
and management implemented further 
cost reduction actions to improve the 
Company’s competitiveness. Investments 
were made in new technologies and 
production assets to improve product 
performance and to reduce waste and 
energy consumption, and programmes 
were launched to improve the information 
systems infrastructure of the Company.
 
Dividends
Subject to approval by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
30 April 2009, the directors recommend 
a final dividend of 2.50 pence per share 
(2007: 2.50 pence). If approved, the 
dividend will be payable on 27 May 2009 
to shareholders on the register on 24 
April 2009.
The Board and Management
Other than the appointment of Daniel 
Abrams as CFO on 1 February 2008, 
the Board has remained unchanged 
during the year and has addressed 
the development of the Company with 
continued commitment. However, 
Peter Hickman, who has served as a 
non-executive director since 2006, has 
assumed new responsibilities which will 
prevent him continuing in his role at 
Fiberweb. I regret Peter’s departure and 
thank him for his counsel over the past 
three years. Peter will retire at the end 
of the Annual General Meeting this year. 
With changes in executive management 
during the year, Fiberweb has renewed 
its strong executive team and added 
considerable experience in international 
manufacturing.
Prospects
Fiberweb is continuing to follow the 
strategy laid out at its launch as 
an independent company. An initial 
thorough restructuring to turn around 
the Company’s performance and 
regain competitiveness and focus 
was necessary. At the same time, 
growth opportunities in more cyclical 
differentiated industrial businesses and 
in defensive hygiene businesses are both 
attractive.
The Board continues to believe that 
this strategy is the right one for the 
Company and it is pleased to report 
that the restructuring phase of the 
turnaround is well advanced. The 
continuing improvement in underlying 
operating margin and cash flow seen 
throughout 2008, in difficult markets, is 
strong evidence that Fiberweb is on the 
right track. The defensive nature of our 
Hygiene businesses and opportunities 
for further share gains in our Industrial 
businesses through product and channel 
innovation provide a strong platform for 
further progress. 
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
24 February 2009
Malcolm Coster 8    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
2008 was a year of continuing recovery 
for Fiberweb, during which important 
foundations for future profitable growth 
were laid, despite a very high degree 
of cost volatility and recessionary 
pressures in our key markets.
The most important objective for the 
year was to continue building on the 
growth underlying operating margin 
to 3.1% achieved in the second half of 
2007. 3.4% was achieved in the first 
half of 2008 growing to 4.0% in the 
second half of the year, giving 3.7% 
for the year as a whole (2007: 2.9%). 
This improvement is evidence that 
actions taken to reduce costs, control 
pricing and improve mix are having a 
significant, positive effect. Fiberweb has 
now created a solid platform in both its 
businesses.
In unstable current markets, Fiberweb 
remains extremely vigilant for signs 
of financial stress at suppliers and 
customers. As traditional credit 
insurance is being withdrawn, Fiberweb 
has chosen to assume additional 
carefully-assessed risk, while working 
with customers to reduce credit terms 
and is also working to reduce the 
number of sole supply situations to 
which it is exposed. As yet, while there 
has been a very limited number of both 
customer and supplier failures, none 
has materially impacted Fiberweb’s 
business.
Financial Performance
A reduction in sales was expected 
following management decisions to 
withdraw from unprofitable business 
segments and the recessionary 
conditions prevailing in several markets. 
The sales outturn of £512.8 million 
in 2008 represents a 5.1% decline in 
volumes and 1.4% in sales on a constant 
currency basis after adjusting for the 
impact of business disposals. 2008 full 
year operating profits from continuing 
operations before restructuring costs 
and non-recurring items at £18.8 
million represent significant growth in 
both reported currency and at constant 
currency. A solid first half was followed 
by a strong second half as pricing and 
restructuring actions demonstrated 
their effect and the first sustained 
decline in raw material prices in many 
years began to demonstrate a positive 
impact.
The net loss before tax of £25.2 
million (2007: £100.1 million) reflects 
restructuring charges associated with 
ongoing efforts to remove unviable 
assets and to improve productivity, 
regrettably involving job losses. The 
2008 restructuring charge comprises 
£33.9 million fixed asset write-downs 
and impairments, £0.5 million of other 
asset write-downs and £9.4 million in 
cash expenses, largely for redundancy 
payments, partially offset by gains on 
disposals of businesses of £9.6 million.
The extreme volatility seen in oil prices 
was reflected in the cost of our most 
important raw material, polypropylene. 
Polypropylene prices in Europe and 
North America moved in contradictory 
directions at times during the year, 
leaving us with a net nil impact from 
raw materials in the first half and a 
small net positive impact of £0.5 million 
on operating profit in the second half 
compared to the first half of the year. 
Hence the raw material impact on 
Group profitability during the year was 
not material.
The successful sale of Bidim and 
Fiberweb’s 15% stake in a Saudi 
Arabian consumer fabrics producer, 
SGN, allowed further debt reduction and 
further focused the Group. Following 
these sales, the portfolio of the Group 
by sales is now 37.9% in differentiated 
industrial businesses, 55.5% in 
consumer fabrics and 6.6% in airlaid. 
The extreme movements in currency 
rates during the year, especially the 
second half, created a significant 
Chief Executive’s Review
2008 wAS A yEAR OF CONTINUINg 
RECOvERy FOR FIBERw EB, DURINg wHICH 
IMPORTANT FOUNDATIONS FOR FUTURE 
PROFITABLE gROw TH wERE LAID, DESPITE 
A vERy HIg H DEgREE OF COST vOLATILITy 
AND RECESSIONARy PRESSURES IN OUR 
KEy MARKETS.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    9 
gap between average exchange rates 
used for the translation of the Profit & 
Loss account (£1:$1.85/€1.26) and the 
year–end rates used for the translation of 
the balance sheet (£1:$1.44/€1.03). Debt 
rose during the year by £12.3 million to 
£149.9 million, though £39.1 million of 
this increase relates purely to translation 
of currency borrowings, leaving the 
underlying debt movement as a reduction 
of £32.4 million on a constant currency 
basis. The Group’s primary earnings 
are in US Dollars and Euros matching 
the distribution of Group assets and 
borrowings, hence the inflation of the 
reported debt number does not indicate 
any adverse trend in performance.
Operating cash flow of £62.7 million 
(2007: £42.3 million) before non-recurring 
cash costs of £6.8 million (2007: £5.4 
million) and divestment proceeds of 
£17.2 million (2007: £42.0 million) funded 
capital investment of £33.6 million (2007: 
£32.6 million), net interest payments 
of £9.6 million (2007: £10.4 million) 
and shareholder dividends of £5.1 
million (2007: £7.0 million). Excellent 
improvement in the control of working 
capital produced a net inflow of £17.7 
million (2007: £2.4 million), continuing 
and strengthening the trend seen in 
2007. Working capital as a percentage of 
sales, a metric management believes is 
crucial to the business, declined further 
to 14.4% (2007: 17.9%) on a constant 
currency basis, reflecting tight controls 
and management focus.
2008 Overview
Industrial
The Americas Industrial business enjoyed 
a strong recovery year. Sales of $237.0 
million produced operating margins of 
5.8%, up 1.8 points on 2007. Cashflow 
was excellent as the new management 
team, promoted mid-year, built on 
previous efforts to reduce working capital 
and improve customer responsiveness.
While the continuing downturn in the 
residential construction market created 
difficult conditions for the construction 
materials business, sales volumes 
of Fiberweb’s Typar™, the leading 
performance housewrap brand, were 
remarkably stable in both the USA and 
Canada due to market share gain and 
strong distribution relationships. We 
continue to broaden our product range 
in this important area and to convince 
customers of the benefits of Typar’s 
superior technical performance. Sales of 
MetroWrap for commercial buildings and 
StormWrap for hurricane-prone areas 
have been slow, given the depressed 
state of the industry, but are developing. 
Important new roofing products have 
been developed and will be launched 
during 2009.
Sales of filtration media under the 
Reemay™ brand for pool and spa 
applications were impacted in the OEM 
new product installation segment by 
the housing and consumer recessions, 
but aftermarket sales were strong, with 
Fiberweb maintaining a strong market 
share. Other filtration sales remained 
stable, apart from one specialist area 
primarily serving automotive cabin air 
filter producers, which was hit by the 
general downturn in automotive volumes. 
New air filtration products have been 
developed and are being launched, 
involving new investment in additional 
carding capacity at Fiberweb’s Green Bay 
facility in the USA, adding the flexibility 
to make heavier-weight products with a 
wider mix of fibre raw materials. 
Sales of graphic arts products continued 
their slow decline in traditional markets, 
mirroring the decline of offset litho 
printing in these regions. The launch 
of new products for digital printing 
technologies continues, with further 
technical work necessary before market-
leading, differentiated products make a 
meaningful difference. Progress in this 
area is expected in 2009. Distribution 
of graphic arts products in Europe was 
outsourced during the year, enabling 
the closure of a warehouse in Germany, 
significantly reducing cost and enhancing 
the reach of Fiberweb’s product range.
Other important areas of the Americas 
Industrial business were mixed. Lower-
margin sales in furniture and bedding 
markets and in landscape markets were 
impacted by deliberate pricing actions 
designed to improve profitability. As a 
result, Fiberweb chose to take downtime 
on a few production lines, rather than 
producing excess inventory.
The European Industrial business 
endured a very challenging year, and 
sales fell by 21.8% to €51.1 million, with 
operating margins down by 3.8 points to 
4.5%. Management responded rapidly 
to conditions in the wider marketplace, 
reducing headcount and carefully 
controlling working capital, which 
reduced from 20.2% of sales in 2007 to 
16.4% by the end of 2008.
Filtration is currently a small business 
in Europe for Fiberweb.  However, it is 
one of great potential, both in specialist 
liquid filtration and in air filtration.  
Strong sales in blood filtration media and 
in meltblown products for face masks 
supported margins, and investment in an 
additional meltblown beam on an existing 
line at Tenotex, Italy has doubled capacity 
on that line for filtration materials, 
significantly reducing average costs.
The collapse in housing new-build 
volumes throughout Western Europe 
impacted core markets. Fortunately, 
many years of work building customers 
and a market presence in Eastern Europe 
mitigated the impact of this to some 
extent, with sales growth in Poland in 
particular. However, it is to be expected 
that the downturn will spread further 
during 2009. Sales will be supported 
during 2009 by the launch of new 
products, improving the insulation and 
longevity of roofing membranes.
Sales of agricultural fabrics for frost 
and pest protection, in which Fiberweb 
Daniel Dayan 10    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
is a market leader in Europe, were 
in line with previous years. Other 
specialist industrial fabric sales, mainly 
serving medical markets, were low 
in 2008, following planned high sales 
in 2007 prior to a significant change 
in raw material sourcing. This had a 
disproportionate impact on margins in 
European Industrial, and recovery is 
expected in 2009 following the successful 
qualification of new raw materials.
Terram enjoyed a strong first half, but 
the impact of the construction downturn 
in the UK severely impacted the second 
half, as did hugely uncompetitive power 
prices in the UK during the third and 
fourth quarters, which led production 
to be substantially curtailed during the 
last few months of the year. Sterling 
devaluation and some mitigation in 
volatile UK industrial power pricing have 
helped Terram to regain competitiveness 
in early 2009.
Hygiene
2008 overall was a solid year for 
Fiberweb’s Hygiene businesses.
Consumer Fabrics saw global sales of 
£284.4 million, flat compared to 2007 in 
constant currency terms, with operating 
margins of 5.0% up 0.5 points.
In North America, sales, profits and 
margins in the consumer fabrics business 
grew, thanks to previous restructuring, 
excellent manufacturing performance in 
terms of productivity and scrap reduction 
and progress in diversifying the customer 
base of our important Mexican facility. 
The impact of lower raw material costs 
towards the end of the year was also 
significant and positive. Sales of fabric 
softener sheet remained strong to all 
branded and private-label converters.
In Europe, the impact of substantial over-
capacity in the market led to intense price 
pressure and reduced margins. Actions 
have been initiated to remove Fiberweb’s 
uncompetitive capacity and to diversify 
our customer base to ensure we supply 
as many segments of the market as we 
can. The raw material cost reduction 
impact in Europe was much more limited 
than in North America due to different 
petrochemical pricing methodologies in 
the two regions, but is expected to be 
significantly positive in the first quarter 
of 2009.
Substantial progress has been made 
in new product development in the 
consumer fabric area, especially in the 
areas of extensible fabrics, lower-cost 
fabrics and fabrics containing sustainable 
raw materials for various diaper 
applications.
The Asian airlaid business produced 
sales of RMB341.4 million (£26.4 million) 
and underlying operating margins of 
8.0%, down 1.5 points on 2007. While the 
business enjoyed record demand and 
output, serving customers throughout 
Asia from our site in Tianjin and also 
exporting significant quantities to 
Europe, pricing was less attractive. 
The commissioning of Line 2 at Tianjin 
has been completed as planned and 
has significantly broadened Fiberweb’s 
product offering in Asia at a very 
competitive capital cost.
The Business Review sets out in more 
detail how we have performed in 2008.
Our People
During yet another period when we have 
been reducing headcount and increasing 
productivity, it demands a great deal 
of commitment and loyalty from our 
employees to focus on serving customers 
and optimising performance, and I am 
always impressed by the loyalty and 
determination shown by Fiberweb people. 
As our performance has improved, we 
have been able to increase investment 
in development, notably with a strategic 
marketing programme developed for 
around forty senior Fiberweb managers 
by Cranfield University in the UK, which 
is one critical element in upgrading our 
marketing capabilities.
As ever, I would like to thank all Fiberweb 
employees for their commitment and 
creativity as we begin to emerge from 
turnaround into a period of more normal 
growth and development in challenging 
markets.
 
Outlook
We expect Fiberweb’s performance to 
be resilient, despite the challenging 
economic environment.
The Hygiene businesses are expected 
to continue to benefit from fairly stable 
end-user demand and lower raw material 
costs. We will also benefit from the 
further restructuring actions announced 
in detail in January 2009. 
The Industrial businesses will benefit 
from new products launched in filtration, 
roofing and specialist geo-textiles. Also 
here, cost reduction actions will benefit 
2009 as will the investment in marketing 
skills and resources made during 2008. 
Further debt reduction remains a priority. 
The medium-term target of net debt at 2x 
EBITDA announced in August remains in 
place, although this is not expected to be 
achieved in 2009. 
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive
24 February 2009
wE ExPECT FIBERwEB’S PERFORMANCE TO 
BE RESILIENT, DESPITE THE CHALLENgINg 
ECONOMIC ENvIRONMENT. FURTHER DEBT 
REDUCTION REMAINS A PRIORITy FOR THE 
MEDIUM- TERM.      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    11 11 11
BUSINESS REvIEw 12    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
AMERICAS INDUSTRIAL
2008 wAS A yEAR OF STRONg RECOvERy, 
wITH AN ExCELLENT PERFORMANCE IN 
TERMS OF OPERATINg MARgIN gROwTH AND 
wORKINg CAPITAL REDUCTION
Productivity increases through improved •	
working practices in manufacturing
Positive decision to improve margins •	
through withdrawal from certain 
commoditised market segments, following 
detailed market and customer analysis
Successful ramp-up of volumes of the •	
anti-microbial pool and spa filter fabric 
launched early in the year
Continued market share gain in housewrap •	
in both the USA and Canada, maintaining 
volumes in a rapidly-declining US housing 
market
Restructuring of European distribution •	
for graphic arts products, removing an 
in-house warehouse and customer service 
infrastructure, and forging alliances with 
strong distribution partners – reducing cost 
and increasing market presence
Successful completion of the first and •	
second phases of a finance automation 
project – increasing the speed and quality 
of financial reporting at lower cost
Successful product development initiatives •	
in filtration, leading to launch of new 
products in 2009
EUROPE INDUSTRIAL 
AND TERRAM
A vERy DIFFICULT yEAR, wITH A RAPID 
DECLINE IN HOUSE-BUILDINg ACTIvITy IN 
MOST CORE wESTERN EUROPEAN MARKETS 
LEADINg TO DOwNwARDS PRESSURE ON 
SALES AND MARgIN
Significant cost reductions at our facilities •	
in Berlin and Königswinter in Germany
Successful development of new products •	
with enhanced insulating properties and 
longevity, which are beginning to renew the 
product range
Restructuring of the sales force, to bring •	
all industrial products under a single 
management team, enabling a more 
efficient allocation of resource and greater 
focus
In the UK, Fiberweb’s geo-textile business, •	
Terram, was negatively impacted by the 
recessionary trends in the British and 
French construction industries, responding 
through improved productivity, greater 
sales efforts in higher-margin segments 
such as laminates, rail and drainage 
composites and innovation in the defence 
sector
Significant Actions in 2008
THE REORgANISATION OF THE gROUP INTO TwO g LOBAL 
BUSINESSES SERvINg THE HygIENE INDUSTRy – Consumer 
Fabrics and Airlaid – and three regional industrial businesses – 
Americas Industrial, Europe Industrial and Terram – created a 
simpler structure, well-aligned with the characteristics of our 
customers and focused on profitable growth within consistent 
business units.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    13 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    13 13
AIRLAID
A STRONg RECOvERy yEAR IN ASIA, wITH 
LINE 1 RUNNINg AT RECORD LEvELS AND 
THE CONSTRUCTION OF LINE 2 COMPLETED, 
BUT A MOST DISAPPOINTINg yEAR IN 
EUROPE, wITH THE FAILURE TO ACHIEvE 
COST TARgETS ON THE NEw AIRLAID LINE IN 
ITALy LEADINg TO ITS CLOSURE
Line 2 in China was officially opened in the •	
summer of 2008, and began a series of 
customer trials and process optimisation 
projects. At the end of the year, the line 
is virtually customer-ready and is already 
making small quantities of customer 
material
Line 1 ran at record output and record •	
productivity all year
The new airlaid line at Korma, Italy was •	
closed rapidly once it became clear that 
cost targets would not be achieved and 
customers were unwilling to pay prices 
necessary to allow Fiberweb to earn a 
return
CONSUMER FABRICS
A STRONg RECOvERy yEAR IN NORTH 
AMERICA, wITH A MARKED IMPROvEMENT IN 
MARgINS FOLLOwINg THE RESTRUCTURINg 
ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2006 AND 2007.  
A DIFFICULT yEAR IN EUROPE, AS OvER-
CAPACITy IN THE INDUSTRy LED TO 
SIgNIFICANT PRICE AND vOLUME PRESSURE
All carded plants were heavily-loaded •	
during the year, producing strong results
The upgraded resin-bond line at Tenotex, •	
Italy was successfully commissioned and 
began supplying customers with specialist 
diaper components
The large spunbond line in Sweden, •	
installed during 2007, ran at record levels 
of output and productivity
Construction of the new spunbond line in •	
Italy continued on-time and on-budget
Preparations were made to remove less •	
competitive capacity in Europe once the 
Italian line was in operation, culminating in 
consultation with employee representatives 
and an announcement of the proposed 
closure of several lines in January 2009
The creation of a global purchasing function formalised hitherto looser 
cooperation, enabling the necessary focus to be given to controlling the 
group’s largest single cost. 14    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Our vision is to become the leading global source of 
speciality nonwoven fabric solutions, and in partnership 
with our customers, suppliers and other associates, to 
create and implement products and solutions that offer 
outstanding value. 
Our strategy is to exploit and develop our strengths in 
nonwoven fabrics, whilst at the same time addressing our 
weaknesses aggressively, thereby creating and sustaining 
value for shareholders. 
vision and Strategy       Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    15 
We intend to continue to drive forward 
the strategy to turn around the 
disappointing financial performance of 
recent years by:
•  Closing or divesting weak businesses 
that cannot earn sustainable returns 
or defining a rapid programme for 
profit improvements; 
• Investing in strong businesses 
with the potential for sustainable 
differentiation and good growth 
prospects; and
•  Focusing resources on fewer areas 
to ensure that development of the 
retained business can be accelerated. 
We seek to drive profitable growth and 
enhance our competitive position by:
•  Focusing on new product and process 
innovation that will drive value for 
customers;
•  Enhancing our reputation for 
outstanding global service for 
customers;
•  Improving cost competitiveness and 
operational efficiency on a global 
scale;
•  Investing in new production 
technology that is cost leading and 
performance orientated; and
•  Working with our suppliers to manage 
cost and risk in the supply base.
Historically, Fiberweb focused primarily 
on developing its hygiene business and 
did not grow its industrial business 
significantly. Our belief is that good 
prospects lie in exploiting Fiberweb’s 
strong technical, brand and market 
share positions in important segments 
of the large and growing market for 
industrial nonwoven fabrics, particularly 
in filtration and speciality construction 
segments that reward technical 
differentiation, close customer contact, 
branding and innovation. 
There are further industrial segments 
that offer good profit potential but enjoy 
lower growth or geographically-limited 
markets, such as fabric softener sheets 
in North America, that are also attractive 
and will be developed within the market 
constraints. 
There are also attractive segments for 
Fiberweb within the hygiene market, 
where scale, manufacturing excellence 
and innovation can produce competitive 
advantage. In particular, Fiberweb has 
traditional strength in spunbond fabrics 
for baby diaper and feminine care 
applications, a key market area where 
reasonable returns are available to the 
best competitors. Fiberweb has been a 
leader in cost and innovation but in the 
early part of the decade lost momentum. 
The corrective steps taken since 2006 
and the Italian spunbond investment now 
underway, are rebuilding Fiberweb’s 
competitive position in this important 
area.
Airlaid is a newer business area for 
Fiberweb and the one area in which 
we enjoy a premier position in Asia, 
with the largest production line in the 
region at our site in Tianjin, China. We 
have expanded this position through 
investment in a second line in Tianjin to 
improve our economies of scale. 
FIBERwEB IS REgARDED AS A TECHNOLOgICAL INNOvATOR 
wITH A STRONg PORTFOLIO OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTy,  
A PREFERRED PARTNER FOR CUSTOMERS FOCUSED ON  
HIgH qUALITy AND RELIABLE SUPPLy, AND AS A CONSISTENT 
INvESTOR IN A gLOBAL NETwORK OF COMPETITIvE 
MANUFACTURINg ASSETS. 16    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Business Review
continued
16 16    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 16 16
Fiberweb is a global leader 
in tailored nonwoven fabric 
solutions for baby care.
Our Markets and External Environment
The nonwovens market is diverse with a 
wide range of end applications. Regional 
penetration, competition and potential 
growth can vary widely dependent on 
different product areas. The nonwovens 
industry has grown steadily over the 
last three decades as these materials 
are increasingly used as a substitute for 
textiles. Technological advancements 
allow nonwovens to be used in new 
applications by improvements in 
properties such as comfort, strength, 
flexibility, durability and permeability. 
Fiberweb operates in two main markets; 
hygiene and industrial. Hygiene markets 
continued to exhibit the overall stable 
growth we have seen in the past. The 
trend to lower basis weights (ie lighter 
fabrics) in response to rising raw 
material costs continued.
The industrial markets served by 
Fiberweb are varied and in most cases 
development was as expected. The 
most difficult was undoubtedly the 
US residential construction market, 
whose issues have been well publicised. 
As a result of significant falls in new 
housing starts, market pressures 
have been considerable in housewrap 
and in construction-related areas of 
landscape fabrics and pool filtration. 
While measurements of market 
share are difficult, it is notable that 
we experienced much lower volume 
declines than the fall in overall market 
demand as represented by new housing 
starts. A similar demand trend was 
observed also in European housing 
markets, notably Germany.
External factors
The trend of increasing oil prices, and 
the knock on effect on polypropylene, 
did not ease during 2008 from the 
high levels of 2007, until the end of the 
year. Indeed we saw record oil prices 
in the middle of the year, despite the 
absence of significant hurricane activity 
which has affected pricing in previous 
years. These increases feed through 
over time to our oil-derived polymeric 
raw materials such as polypropylene. 
Longer term additions to polypropylene 
production capacity have recently 
come on-stream and, together with 
the impact of current severe consumer 
slowdown in many countries, are 
negatively impacting polymer prices.
Competitive environment 
The competitive environment of the 
nonwovens industry is constantly 
changing, with technological innovations      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    17 
and the development of new markets and 
applications. Although Fiberweb is unique 
with its broad product portfolio and global 
presence, it faces competition at various 
levels depending on the application. 
The hygiene market is characterised 
by a concentrated and sophisticated 
customer base. Large multinational 
customers maintain very high standards 
of product quality and performance and 
expect nothing less from their suppliers. 
Fiberweb supports this philosophy and 
strives to innovate and manufacture 
world class nonwoven products and 
deliver world class levels of value and 
service. The industrial market is not only 
fragmented but the level of technical 
expertise and competition varies 
depending on the application. Key to 
success in the Industrial business is the 
ability to respond rapidly and effectively 
to customer needs for improving value 
and performance, often at short notice.
Operations
Trends
There are clear trends apparent towards 
a greater acknowledgement of the need 
to consider the sustainability of products 
and processes that impact Fiberweb. 
Our response to this has been both 
short-term, through the further 
extension of recycling and energy 
reduction investments and medium-
term, through the development of 
products and processes based on 
polymers derived from more sustainable 
raw materials than crude oil.
Hygiene
The strategic trends in the hygiene 
nonwovens industry of steady 3-5% 
medium-term growth and technological 
17 17
Consumer Fabrics
DURINg THE yEAR wE REORgANISED our main 
hygiene businesses in Europe and North America to 
create a single, global division focused on supplying 
spunbond, spunmelt and carded products to major 
branded and own label manufacturers of baby care, 
feminine hygiene and adult incontinence products. 
The division’s main markets are in North and Central 
America and western Europe and the emerging 
markets of Eastern Europe and North Africa.
In North America new long term supply contracts 
have been agreed for spunbond and carded 
materials, and the launch of a series of new products 
based on innovative sustainable materials has given 
a new lease of life to our carded line in Simpsonville. 
In 2008 our green Bay plant received a special 
award from a major global babycare manufacturer 
in recognition of the exemplary service levels it 
achieved during the year. Additional line capacity has 
been added in green Bay and new state-of-the-art 
compressor technology installed in our washougal 
plant has delivered a 15% reduction in energy 
consumption.
 
In Europe we are continuing to improve our overall 
efficiency through investing in new, more efficient 
assets and the withdrawal from service of older 
lines that are no longer competitive. This process 
was begun in 2008 with the closure of two lines and 
a further three lines will be taken out of service 
during the first half of 2009. The commissioning of 
our new 5.2m wide line in Italy is on schedule and 
this line will broadly compensate for the capacity 
lost elsewhere. By the middle of the year our 
average line capacity in Europe will have increased 
significantly with a corresponding reduction in 
average manufacturing costs. we continue to invest 
to improve productivity and competitiveness in all 
our plants. The addition of a new winder in our Peine 
plant and of a second meltblown beam to one of 
our lines in Tenotex are just two examples of where 
capital has been committed in order to improve the 
quality and competitiveness of our products. 18    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Business Review
continued
Each family of Fiberweb’s hygiene 
products is engineered to offer a 
unique set of properties such as 
softness, strength, extensibility, 
absorbency or repellancy which 
provides function, feel and fit.
development towards better value 
products, have continued to progress 
during 2008 and are expected to be 
maintained in the medium-term. The 
drive to improve fabric performance 
at lower weight – ie with the use 
of smaller quantities of polymer – 
continues to be the most significant 
trend. Fabrics have been reduced in 
weight by around 50% over the last 5 
years and further reductions are likely. 
This has been achieved by improved 
production processes and technology 
enabling higher performance fabrics 
and by the redesign of hygiene 
products – such as diapers – to 
re-examine the need and properties 
of each layer used traditionally. In 
addition, there are moves to attempt 
to incorporate further functionality 
– eg elasticity or extensibility – into 
nonwoven fabrics to a greater extent 
than before, potentially simplifying 
the construction of certain diaper 
components and reducing the use of 
hydrocarbon-based raw materials. 
There are also moves amongst some 
hygiene product producers to examine 
the use of sustainable raw materials, 
such as polymers derived from corn or 
indeed cotton fibre, thereby potentially 
reducing the carbon footprint of their 
products and reducing the use of oil-
based raw materials. These trends will 
impact Fiberweb’s hygiene business 
and our choice of technology and R&D 
investment, as lighter-weight fabrics 
demand more sophisticated equipment 
and control systems.
Another key trend impacting Fiberweb’s 
hygiene business is the continued 
growth in emerging markets as the 
market penetration of disposable 
hygiene products continues to rise. 
Currently weak economic conditions 
in many countries may reduce growth 
rates, both through lower penetration 
in developing markets and through 
consumers trading down to lower-
tier products or consuming less in 
developed markets. This will impact 
Fiberweb’s geographic investment 
plans and potentially the choice of 
technology from lower-cost sources, 
as with the use of a Chinese contractor 
for the recent airlaid line project at 
Fiberweb’s site in China.
The disposable hygiene products 
industry continues to be fairly 
concentrated, and the trend towards 
greater customer purchasing power 
has not changed. Fiberweb’s response 
has been to continue the efforts of 
recent years to improve our cost 
competitiveness and to work with 
important customers to develop 
differentiated products offering mutual 
advantage.
Industrial
The trends in the very varied and 
fragmented markets for industrial 
nonwovens are more difficult to 
assess overall. However, especially 
in the current, challenging economic 
climate, a trend in most market areas 
towards solutions offering better value 
is discernible. Nonwovens, by virtue of 
the flexible manufacturing processes 
available, the one-step nature of many 
of these processes and the wide variety 
of raw materials that may be used, 
offer many opportunities to create and 
refine new fabrics that are tailored 
to the specific needs of a particular 
application. The ability to deliver these 
flexible solutions, sometimes only in 
small quantities and sometimes on a 
large, industrial scale, means that costs 
can be minimised through designing 
in physical properties that are as 
close as possible to those required 
by customers. For example, filtration 
fabrics can be designed to perform 
exactly as required for a particular 
standard of filtration, without adding 
cost through the use of excess or 
unnecessarily expensive raw materials 
– a good example is Fiberweb’s recent 
launch of self-supporting air filter 
media in North America, which do      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    19 19 19
Airlaid
FIBERwEB is the only Asian airlaid supplier to offer both 
drum and agitator technology providing a broad product 
capability to serve various market segments. Fiberweb is 
also the largest airlaid producer in Asia.
FIBERwEB HAS COMMERCIALISED 
ITS NEwEST AIRLAID LINE AT THE 
TIANJIN, CHINA FACILITy.
As a result of successful yield 
and productivity improvements, 
the Fiberweb China Airlaid plant 
achieved record high productivity and 
conversion yield in 2008. 
 
China is the fastest growing economy 
in Asia. Despite the global financial 
turmoil, China managed to record 
substantial gDP growth of more than 
9% in 2008. Fiberweb China Airlaid 
has been able to take advantage of 
this growth opportunity and is well 
placed to deal with any downturn.
THE COMMISSIONINg 
OF LINE 2 AT 
TIANJIN HAS BEEN 
COMPLETED AS 
PLANNED AND HAS 
SIgNIFICANTLy 
BROADENED 
FIBERwEB’S 
PRODUCT OFFERINg 
IN ASIA AT A vERy 
COMPETITIvE CAPITAL 
COST.
not require a wire mesh support as 
has been necessary with most filter 
fabrics in this market until recently. In 
the construction industry, in both North 
America and Europe, trends to improve 
the energy efficiency of buildings, 
especially residential housing, continue 
to be apparent. The very high energy 
costs seen in mid-2008 have encouraged 
this trend, despite their rapid fall 
since. In response, Fiberweb’s tailored 
housewrap and roofing products have 
been further developed to improve their 
properties of insulation and longevity, 
without adding unnecessary cost. A good 
example is Fiberweb’s recent launch of 
an insulating under-tile membrane in 
Europe, combining a nonwoven roofing 
membrane with an insulating foam in a 
novel laminate construction.
The long-term growth of nonwovens 
in industrial applications continues to 
appear to be secure, despite current 
negative pressures on volumes from 
the economic cycle. Demands for higher 
water and air quality continue to drive 
growth in filtration and demands for 
improved housing and infrastructure for 
much of the world’s population continue 
to drive the increased use of nonwovens 
in construction worldwide, both for 
housing and in the use of geo-textiles in 
infrastructure for example.
The structure of our supplier and 
customer industries in these areas is 
not changing consistently or rapidly, 
but we continue to see new competitors 
emerging, especially from the Far East. 20    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
INDUSTRIAL
Description of Business
In North America, Fiberweb operates 
in a number of areas in construction, 
filtration, landscape, furniture and 
bedding, and specialities, with 
manufacturing sites located in the US 
at Old Hickory and Simpsonville. In 
construction, our major products are in 
housewrap, landscape and geo-textile 
markets. The Brazilian business, where 
we produced Bidim™ branded fabric 
used in roofing, shoe components and 
geo-textiles in South America, was sold 
in June 2008.
We are the market leader in pool and 
spa filtration under our strong brand 
Reemay™. We also operate in the air 
filtration market focusing on cabin air 
and clean room air filtration. In the 
fabric softener sheet market we have 
market leading technology and we 
also manufacture high performance 
products for use in the graphic arts 
industry, such as nil-scratch wipes and 
dampener covers.
We continue to invest resources to 
maintain and grow our position in this 
business. 
In the construction industry, Fiberweb’s 
Typar™ is a strong and well established 
brand for housewrap in North America 
and is the second largest brand. In 
Canada Typar™ is the leading market 
brand.
Reemay™ is recognised by many as an 
industry standard in filtration markets, 
especially for pool and spa filtration, 
and Fiberweb continues to work and 
improve the performance of these 
products to stay ahead of competition. 
Reemay™ is also used to make fabric 
softener sheets for the North American 
consumer market, an attractive niche 
area of application. 
Our Industrial business in Europe is 
less developed than in North America. 
It falls into three main segments: 
construction, filtration and agriculture. 
In Europe, we focus on roofing and 
speciality polyethylene-based fabrics. In 
the UK, our Terram™ business located 
in South Wales produces branded geo-
textiles which have a strong market 
position in the UK, as well as speciality 
geo-synthetics and constructions for a 
variety of applications, including into the 
rail and defence industries. 
In Asia, the Group mainly sells small 
volumes of specialist Reemay™ 
filtration fabrics and Typar™ for various 
construction applications, particularly 
in China. During 2008, a subsidiary, 
Hengguan, in which Fiberweb has a 65% 
interest, was established with a local 
joint venture partner to manufacture 
industrial spunbond products.
Performance in 2008
Industrial sales were £194.3 million 
(2007: £201.2 million). Overall margins 
for the division remained constant at 
5.4%.
In North America, the Industrial 
business had a successful year 
notwithstanding the downturn in the 
US residential construction market, 
where we saw a marked reduction 
in new house starts. Margins within 
North America grew from 4% to 5.8% 
reflecting the benefits of improved mix 
and inventory management.
Housewrap volumes and revenues 
remained strong, and the Group 
experienced market share gains in both 
North America and Canada. The impact 
Business Review
continued
SIgNIFICANT SHARE g AINS 
FOR TyPAR
™
 HOUSEwRAP 
wERE ACHIEvED IN THE 
HARSH CLIMATE REgIONS 
OF THE CANADIAN MARKET 
DUE TO OUR PRODUCT 
PERFORMANCE SUPERIORITy, 
ROBUST DISTRIBUTOR 
NETwORK, AND BRAND 
RECOgNITION.
20 20     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    21 
Typar™
THE AMERICAS CONSTRUCTION AND gEO-TExTILES 
PRODUCT gROUP continues to advance preferred 
system solutions under the Typar™ brand and 
integrate its diverse portfolio into a compelling albeit 
condensed and rational offering of performance solutions 
targeted at the evolving needs of the marketplace.
The Construction Products business 
has enhanced its market position by 
strengthening its recent innovative 
product introductions of Stormwrap™ 
and Metrowrap™ for extreme 
weather and commercial construction 
applications, respectively. It has also 
implemented a value chain strategy 
that has strengthened its penetration 
in the U.S. and Canadian markets. 
The Landscape and ground Cover 
business has defended against life-cycle 
maturity and low cost/low performance 
competition from other point bond 
nonwoven suppliers by reinforcing 
the brand franchise and exploiting 
the product performance attributes 
recognised by the professionals in the 
key Lawn & garden segment. The geo-
Textiles business has condensed its core 
offering, simplifying the business model 
in the two dimensional market space, 
and has begun redeploying resources 
in support of the launch strategy for 
the new three-dimensional offerings in 
Defence and Civil Engineering markets 
under the DefenCell™ and TyCell™ 
brands.
Annualised Building starts suffered 
another significant downturn in the US 
by dropping an estimated 32% bringing 
the total decline since the 2005 peak to 
56%. The Canadian market, however, 
has remained relatively stable since 2006 
with only a 6% decline in housing starts, 
all occurring in 2008. During this period, 
the Americas Construction group sales 
have remained relatively flat reinforcing 
a significant penetration in market share 
in both these regions and solidifying the 
Typar™ product line as North America’s 
second largest brand. Significant gains of 
our Typar™ housewrap were achieved in 
the harsh climate regions of the Canadian 
market due to our product performance 
superiority, robust distributor network, 
and brand recognition. 
Portfolio reinvention and extension 
remains a key focus. Metrowrap™ sales 
have more than doubled in 2008 and the 
implementation of a commercial agent 
network will enhance this growth rate in 
2009. Newly developed synthetic roofing 
products will be launched for the $300+ 
million roof underlayment market 
replacing an existing offering with new 
roof products targeting multiple price 
points and performance characteristics. 
New innovations with 3-D geo-textile 
product lines provide innovative new 
opportunities in the geo-textile market 
space for our Typar™ materials. 3-D 
applications will develop proprietary 
advantages, enhance the Typar™ brand, 
and increase asset utilisation with 
minimal incremental investment for 
Fiberweb.
2009 economic forecasts indicate another 
challenging year for construction products 
with little rebound in housing starts until 
late in the second half. The Construction 
group will continue to expand its 
distribution network to enhance access 
to its products through a broader array of 
channel partners. Marketing activities will 
be increased to continue to strengthen 
brand recognition and support product 
introductions. Fiberweb will look to 
capitalise on the broad infrastructure 
development proposals being considered 
within the US recovery plan by the new US 
administration.
of the downturn in the construction 
sector in Europe was more marked with 
softness in volumes experienced in most 
markets other than Eastern Europe. 
Total construction sector sales represent 
around 10% of Group sales.
Innovation is an important driver for 
growth in the Industrial business with 
the launch of Microban™, a new filtration 
product with antimicrobial properties 
and the development of DefenCell™, 
an improvised fortification geo-textile 
product serving the defence sector. 
Other opportunities for growth include 
specialist liquid and air filtration for a 
number of applications including medical 
diagnosis and face masks. 
Within the North American Industrial 
business, continued improvement has 
been made in reducing the total number 
of SKU’s and in eliminating low margin 
products with a resulting significant 
improvement in mix and margins. Tighter 
inventory management has continued to 
benefit working capital
The Group sold its subsidiary Bidim to 
Mexichem Amanco Holdings S.A. de C.V. 
(“Mexichem”) for gross proceeds of £17.6 
million. Bidim contributed £0.4 million 
to the Group’s first half underlying 
operating profit.
Terram™, our UK geo-textiles and 
geo-synthetics business, has continued 
to make progress in commercialising 
innovative geo-textile products in the 
defence and rail sectors.  22    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Business Review
continued
DEFENCELL™ MEETS THE 
NEED FOR A LIgHTwEIgHT, 
COMPACT, EASILy DEPLOyED 
RANgE OF DEFENSIvE 
PROTECTION SySTEMS.
HYGIENE
Description of Business
Fiberweb’s Hygiene business provides 
nonwoven fabrics to major consumer 
goods companies around the world for 
applications in diapers and feminine 
hygiene. These are produced using 
two principal methods: spunbond and 
airlaid. 
In North America, Fiberweb produces 
carded thermal bond material which 
is used principally for extensible 
applications such as ears and side 
panels in baby diapers, and spunbond 
and spunmelt materials as components 
for diapers and feminine care products. 
Our manufacturing sites are located in 
the US in Simpsonville, Washougal and 
Green Bay, and in Mexico. 
In Europe, we hold a market leading 
position as a result of continuous 
investment across manufacturing sites 
in France, Germany, Italy and Sweden. 
At our Chinese facility based in Tianjin, 
we produce advanced airlaid material 
for absorption and/or distribution of 
liquid for use in the manufacture of 
disposable feminine hygiene products. 
In Asia, Fiberweb is the largest airlaid 
roll goods producer, supplying most of 
the leading feminine care producers 
in the region as well as the European 
market. 
Performance in 2008
Hygiene sales were £318.5 million 
(2007: £272.4 million).The Hygiene 
business demonstrated further 
improved performance with margins 
growing to 4.3% (2007: 3.7%). This 
was particularly attributable to 
North American Hygiene where the 
benefits of the reorganisation and cost 
reduction initiatives in the previous year 
contributed to the improvement.
The Hygiene business in Europe is 
presently experiencing over capacity 
and competitive pressures. In response, 
the Group has restructured the 
business substantially during 2008 
and continuing in 2009. The stated 
objective at the interims in 2008 was 
to reduce the number of lines by 30% 
and to increase the capacity per line by 
about 50%.This latter objective is being 
addressed through new investment and 
upgrading of existing lines and in 2008 
a significant investment was made in 
a new R4 spunbond line in Italy and a 
second airlaid line was added in China. 
Research and Development
During 2008, Fiberweb re-organised 
its Research and Development (“R&D”) 
function, combining and consolidating 
its North American R&D activities 
in Old Hickory, Nashville, enabling 
the resource to be used more cost 
effectively and work on larger more 
significant projects. 
Fiberweb’s R&D centre in Europe 
at Peine in Germany has received 
significant investment in 2008 involving 
the up-grading of our Reicofil pilot 
line to enable higher line speeds and 
capabilities, and improve scale-up to 
commercial lines. The focus of the R&D 
centre in Peine is on the support of the 
global Consumer Fabrics business and 
the European Industrial businesses 
while the R&D centre in Old Hickory 
focuses on our Reemay™ and Typar™ 
product ranges.
The main objective of R&D is to 
provide innovation to our customers by 
22 22     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    23 23 23
Innovation
DEFENCELL™
IN COLLABORATION wITH THE TERRAM™  
AND TyPAR™ business teams, R&D has developed 
an innovative force protection system designed to 
service the specific needs of the military. Defencell™, 
the trade name for this patent-pending deployment 
system, is constructed from the rugged and durable 
nonwovens manufactured at Pontypool (UK) and Old 
Hickory (US). These make the system especially fit-
for-use in harsh and hostile environments.
OUR MULTI-CELL 
TECHNOLOgy IS FINDINg 
RELATED USES IN 
CIvIL ENgINEERINg 
APPLICATIONS wHERE 
MANAgEMENT OF w ATER 
AND EROSION ARE 
IMPORTANT.
The unique multi-cell, non-metallic, structure is light 
weight and offers significant logistical advantages over 
sandbags and other barrier systems. Over 1,100m of a 
1.13m wide by 1.10m high wall can be transported in a 
single 20ft shipping container. It can be safely dropped 
from a truck or helicopter with no risk of damage. 
The cell design allows for customised dimensions and 
configurations in order to easily adapt to special or 
emerging threats. when filled with sand, soil, rock or 
other suitable materials that are readily available at the 
construction site, the resulting barrier can withstand 
most threats including ballistics, blasts and vehicles.  
The products have 
been thoroughly tested in the laboratory and in the 
field. They have passed the most rigorous trials with 
outstanding results and have captured the interest 
of the US military and a number of European armed 
forces. Fiberweb takes great pride in providing a 
product with significant logistical advantages, saving 
space, weight, time and, most importantly, lives. 
Most recently this technology has found related uses 
in civil engineering applications where management of 
water and erosion are important.
optimising the performance of existing 
products and processes, or developing 
new, more cost efficient solutions. The 
division has a global approach, and is 
pursuing important projects in our major 
business fields of consumer fabrics, 
filtration and construction. In 2008, R&D 
achieved a project success rate of 78%.
Whereas R&D focuses on upstream 
product and process development, and 
important new platform technologies, 
Technical Services (“TS”) provides 
technical support to our customers 
locally. Being close to customers and 
their needs enables us to anticipate new 
market trends and is a key element of 
this function. The R&D and TS divisions 
work closely together and responsibility 
for these aspects of product and process 
development is co-ordinated between 
the respective R&D and TS departments 
in Europe, the US and Asia. Fiberweb 
continues to invest in these areas to 
maintain its leading market positions. 24    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Business Review
continued
24 24
Innovation
REEMAy™ wITH MICROBAN™ 
Common today are a broad range of consumer 
products which have been engineered to provide 
antimicrobial product protection in applications 
such as bathroom exhaust fans, bathroom sinks, 
kitchen counter tops, and humidifiers. These 
products offer the consumer improved cleanliness 
by inhibiting the growth of microbes, such as 
bacteria, which can cause stains, odours, and 
negatively affect product performance.
Along this direction, Fiberweb has introduced an 
innovative new pool and spa filter media under the 
Reemay™ brand which has antimicrobial protection 
incorporated during the manufacturing process. 
This process locks in the protection which can not be 
“washed off” during use. Reemay™ with Microban™
provides both Fiberweb and our customers an 
opportunity for higher margins and increased 
revenue from new business. In today’s competitive 
environment, providing new and innovative solutions 
for our customers gives Fiberweb a stronger position 
in the market. To better protect this advantage, 
Fiberweb has obtained exclusive rights from 
Microban™ for the pool and spa market.
Reemay™ with Microban™ works on contact by 
penetrating a microbe’s cell wall and inhibiting 
cellular functions. By eliminating 99.99% of 
representative organisms (Staphylococcus aureus 
and Klebsiella) in contact with the media, the filter 
stays cleaner and can operate at peak performance 
over a longer time.      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    25 
OPERATINg CASH FLOw IMPROvED 
By MORE THAN 50% TO £55.9 MILLION 
(2007: £36.9 MILLION), ATTRIBUTABLE 
TO BOTH IMPROvED OPERATINg 
MARgINS AND THE SIgNIFICANT 
REDUCTION IN w ORKINg CAPITAL
2008   Unallocated   
  Hygiene Industrial Corporate Continuing Discontinued Total
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
      
External sales by origin 318.5 194.3 – 512.8 – 512.8 
    
Underlying operating profit 13.6 10.5 (5.3) 18.8 – 18.8
Restructuring costs and other  
non-recurring items (39.7) 6.2 (0.7) (34.2) – (34.2)
Segment result (26.1) 16.7 (6.0) (15.4) – (15.4)
      
Underlying operating profit margin 4.3% 5.4% – 3.7% – 3.7%
Capital additions (cash outlay) 30.4 3.2 – 33.6 – 33.6
Depreciation & amortisation 23.2 7.7 0.2 31.1 – 31.1
2007   Unallocated   
  Hygiene Industrial Corporate Continuing Discontinued Total
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
      
External sales by origin 272.4 201.2 – 473.6 31.5 505.1 
    
Underlying operating profit 10.1 10.8 (7.1) 13.8 0.3 14.1
Restructuring costs and other  
non-recurring items (58.7) (43.4) (1.0) (103.1) – (103.1)
Segment result (48.6) (32.6) (8.1) (89.3) 0.3 (89.0)
      
Underlying operating profit margin 3.7% 5.4% – 2.9% 1.0% 2.8%
Capital additions (cash outlay) 24.2 7.7 0.2 32.1 0.5 32.6
Depreciation & amortisation 23.8 7.9 0.1 31.8 1.7 33.5
FINANCIAL REvIEw
Daniel Abrams 26    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Review of Results
Revenue from continuing operations 
increased by 8.3% to £512.8 million 
(2007: £473.6 million) though the 
devaluation in Sterling was a significant 
factor. In constant currency, and 
excluding sales from our Brazilian 
subsidiary Bidim, which was sold in 
June 2008, there was a sales decline 
of 1.4%. This is consistent with the 
focus on margin improvement and 
the deliberate elimination of product 
ranges which do not achieve acceptable 
profit margins. Industrial achieved 
revenues of £194.3 million (2007: £201.2 
million) representing 38% of total Group 
revenue and Hygiene produced £318.5 
million (2007: £272.4 million). Hygiene 
includes the Airlaid business, which had 
revenues of £34.1 million (2007: £19.3 
million). Airlaid is a rapidly growing 
business in Asia where a second 
airlaid line has been successfully 
commissioned and is expected to be 
running at full capacity within 2009.
Underlying operating profit on a 
continuing basis increased by 36% 
from £13.8 million to £18.8 million, an 
operating margin of 3.7% (2007: 2.9%). 
In constant currency, operating profit 
on a continuing basis increased by £2.4 
million or 14.6% compared to prior year. 
This represents the third consecutive 
six month period of margin growth and 
is a vindication of the deliberate actions 
taken to achieve cost efficiencies and of 
the sustained investment in upgrading 
the technology base. Operating margins 
have increased in Hygiene to 4.3% 
(2007: 3.7%). Industrial margins remain 
constant at 5.4%, which masks a 
notable improvement in our Americas 
Industrial operation from 4.0% in 2007 
to 5.8% this year, offset by the decline 
in performance within our European 
Industrial businesses. This sustained 
margin improvement throughout 2008 
can be attributed to two main factors. 
Firstly, the benefits of significant 
restructuring and cost reduction within 
the US Industrial business during 2007 
and within the Hygiene business during 
2008. Secondly, significant productivity 
and product mix benefits, particularly 
within the US Hygiene and Industrial 
businesses. This margin growth 
has been achieved notwithstanding 
difficult trading conditions in certain 
core markets, such as the European 
construction sector. Hygiene displayed 
its strong defensive attributes which 
ensured that, notwithstanding the 
severe recessionary pressures 
experienced in most of the Group’s 
markets, the impact on volumes was 
immaterial. Industrial benefited from 
its portfolio of strong brands in Typar™ 
housewrap and Reemay™ filtration 
products. Although there was weakness 
in the construction sector, particularly 
in Europe, market share was increased 
in the US and Canada. Construction 
accounts for about 10% of total Group 
revenues. 
Raw material costs are a significant cost 
component representing approximately  
55% of Group revenues. They are largely 
dictated by external factors including 
the oil price, from which propylene and 
polypropylene are derived, as well as 
demand and capacity issues. During the 
second half of 2008, we experienced 
exceptional raw material price increases 
peaking during the third quarter in 
the wake of unprecedented oil price 
increases. However, the subsequent 
sharp falls in raw material prices during 
the fourth quarter largely offset the 
increases earlier in the year, leaving the 
overall impact year on year essentially 
flat. Approximately 65% of revenues 
are subject to contractual pass-through 
arrangements, which provide a limited 
cash flow benefit in a period of falling 
raw material prices. 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring 
items fell to £34.2 million (2007: £103.1 
million) and include the impairment of 
assets within the European Consumer 
Fabrics and Airlaid businesses, 
for which a restructuring plan was 
detailed in the announcement of 26 
January 2009 and which included a 
headcount reduction of about 150. The 
significant decline in restructuring 
costs compared to prior year reflects 
the advanced state of the turnaround 
programme of the past three years, 
although further cost reductions may 
continue to be necessary in the normal 
course of business. As a result of this 
reorganisation, the Group is now well 
advanced in achieving its target of a 30% 
reduction in the number of lines within 
European Hygiene whilst securing a 50% 
increase in line capacity. It is expected 
that annual cost savings of £7.0 million 
will be achieved from 2010 onwards. 
Working capital, expressed as the ratio 
of trading working capital to revenue, 
improved to 17.1% (2007: 17.9%). At 
Business Review
continued
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
0 50 100 150 200 250
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
0 5 10 15 20
0 1 2 3 4 5
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
2008
2007 £473.6m
£512.8m
REVENUE – CONTINUING OPERATIONS
INCREASED BY 8.3%
2008
2007 £201.2m
£194.3m
REVENUE – INDUSTRIAL
2008
2007 £272.4m
£318.5m
REVENUE – HYGIENE
2008
2007 3.7%
4.3%
OPERATING MARGIN – HYGIENE
2008
2007 5.4%
5.4%
OPERATING MARGIN – INDUSTRIAL
2008
2007 £13.8m
£18.8m
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
INCREASED BY 36%
2008
2007 £103.1m
£34.2m
REDUCTION IN RESTRUCTURING COSTS
AND NON-RECURRING ITEMS     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    27 
constant currency, applying December 
2007 exchange rates, the ratio at the 
end of the year was a much-improved 
14.4%. A reduction in this crucial 
performance indicator of 2.1 points has 
now been achieved since the end of 2005 
when the ratio was 19.2%. Significant 
improvements in working capital 
management have been made across 
all divisions in the Group and this has 
been achieved through a combination 
of better inventory management as 
well as a tighter control of payment 
terms. Historically the Group has not 
experienced significant bad debts 
thanks to the policy of taking out 
credit insurance for all but the largest 
customers.
Operating cash flow improved strongly 
to £55.9 million (2007: £36.9 million), 
an improvement of £19.0 million or 
51.5%. This favourable performance was 
attributable to both the improvements 
in operating margins and the significant 
reduction in working capital. 
Net debt at the year end was £149.9 
million (2007: £137.6 million). Restated 
in constant currency, net debt at 31 
December 2007 was £182.3 million. 
During the year, the Group has absorbed 
£39.1 million of foreign exchange 
losses on net debt, mainly due to the 
depreciation of Sterling within the fourth 
quarter. Restated at the exchange rates 
applying at 30 June 2008, year end net 
debt was £121.0 million as compared 
to reported interim net debt of £118.9 
million.
The Group has set a target of reducing 
net debt to a maximum of two times 
EBITDA over the medium term and at 
year end the ratio was 3.00, although 
applying average exchange rates for 
the year, improves this ratio to 2.52. 
It is intended to achieve this objective 
over the medium term through 
improvements in operating cash flow 
as well as postponement in capital 
expenditure plans where feasible. 
During the year the Group repaid £17.4 
million of the debt advanced under 
the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility 
and we will seek to continue to reduce 
borrowings where possible and without 
damaging the long term growth plans 
for the business. 
After net finance costs of £10.6 million 
(2007: £10.8 million) and dividend 
income of £0.8 million (2007: £nil) 
from the Group’s investment in SGN, 
Fiberweb produced underlying profit 
before tax from continuing operations of 
£9.0 million (2007: £3.0 million). The tax 
charge for the year on underlying profits 
was £nil (2007: a credit of £0.1 million). 
Excluding a credit of £2.9 million (2007: 
£nil) in respect of the partial recognition 
of a deferred tax asset in respect of US 
tax losses and other timing differences, 
the underlying tax charge was £2.9 
million, representing an underlying 
effective tax rate of 32.2%. As a result 
of the significant reorganisation of 
the US business during 2007, the US 
operations generated a profit in 2008 for 
the first time since demerger, and the 
Group now expects to benefit from its 
substantial US tax losses.
After excluding restructuring costs and 
other non-recurring items, adjusted 
earnings per share on continuing 
operations were 7.4 pence (2007: 2.6 
pence) and the dividend for 2008 was 
covered 1.76 times by earnings.
Restructuring costs and non-recurring 
items on continuing operations of 
£32.4 million before tax included asset 
impairments of £33.9 million, one-off 
professional costs of £0.6 million in 
respect of Avgol’s aborted offer for the 
Group at the beginning of the year and 
other restructuring costs of £9.3 million, 
offset by a gain on sale of investment 
SGN of £3.0 million and the gain of 
£6.6 million on disposal of Brazilian 
subsidiary Bidim. 2007 restructuring 
costs and non-recurring items on 
continuing operations of £103.1 million 
before tax included asset impairments 
of £43.5 million, goodwill impairments 
of £46.7 million, inventory write-downs 
of £5.8 million and other restructuring 
costs of £7.4 million, offset by a gain on 
sale of an associate of £0.3 million. 
Fixed asset additions of £34.6 million 
(2007: £32.9 million) include £4.2 
million in respect of the new airlaid 
line in China as well as £12.7 million 
on the new R4 spunbond line in Italy, 
which is expected to be completed 
in early 2009. With a total capacity of 
18,000 tonnes, this new spunbond line 
materially advances our objective of 
increasing average line capacity by 50% 
in European Hygiene to improve our 
competitive position. 
We disposed of the Brazilian industrial 
subsidiary, Bidim, in June, for gross 
proceeds of £17.6 million (£13.7 
million net of disposal costs). At the 
end of May, we sold the Group’s 15% 
interest in Saudi German Nonwoven 
Products Company, SGN, to the majority 
shareholder for £3.5 million. 
0 2 4 6 8 10
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
0 50 100 150 200 250
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
0 5 10 15 20
0 1 2 3 4 5
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
2008
2007 £36.9m
£55.9m
OPERATING CASH FLOW
2008
2007 £3.0m
£9.0m
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX
FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
2007
2006 18.9%
17.9%
2008 17.1%
TRADE WORKING CAPITAL AS A
PERCENTAGE OF ANNUALISED SALES
2008 14.4% (at 2007 exchange rates)
0 5 10 15 20 28    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Review of Financial Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs)
We measure the achievement of 
our objectives through the use of 
qualitative assessments and through 
the monitoring of quantitative indicators, 
termed Key Performance Indicators 
(“KPIs”). The seven KPIs listed below 
represent factors by reference to 
which the development, performance 
or position of the business can be 
measured effectively.
We focus primarily on financial KPIs 
to measure progress in achieving the 
financial turnaround. 
Continuing underlying operating 
margins have increased by 80 points to 
3.7% from 2.9% last year. This reflects 
both improvements in operating division 
trading performance, as well as a 
reduction of £1.8 million in central costs.
Earnings growth was positive as a 
result of the margin improvement, with 
continuing adjusted EPS up at 7.4 pence 
per share (2007: 2.6 pence per share), 
covering the annual dividend 1.76 times. 
Excluding the deferred tax credit of 
£2.9 million (2007: £nil) in respect of 
US temporary differences, adjusted 
earnings per share were 5.0 pence 
(2007: 2.6 pence). 
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) 
increased from 2.9% to 4.3%. This is 
attributable to improving operating 
margins notwithstanding significant 
capital investment in upgrading plant 
technology. 
After allowing for currency movements 
and excluding the impact of the disposal 
of Bidim, Industrial revenue declined 
by 8.5%, which reflects strategic 
focus on exiting from non-profitable 
markets, as well as difficult trading 
conditions most notably in the European 
construction markets. Whilst revenues 
declined, underlying operating profit 
margins remained at 5.4%, with a 
strong performance in the US offset by a 
weaker Europe. 
An important KPI in managing the 
operating cash of the business is 
trading working capital expressed as a 
percentage of annualised sales, which, 
at the year end was 17.1% (2007: 17.9%). 
Whilst this represents an improvement 
against prior year, this ratio has been 
Business Review
continued
*(8.5)% at constant currency and excluding Bidim (2007: 4.6% at constant currency).
**14.4% at constant currency.
Definition/
Description
Purpose 2008
Performance
2007
Performance
Financial KPIs
Operating margins Underlying operating 
profit from continuing 
businesses/sales from 
continuing businesses
Measure progress in 
improving returns in 
an underperforming 
business
3.7% 2.9%
Earnings growth 
(adjusted EPS)
Increase in underlying 
earnings
Measure success in 
improving shareholder 
returns
185% (49%)
Return on invested 
capital %
Underlying operating 
profit from continuing 
operations/total net assets 
prior to impairment, 
excluding cash and non 
interest bearing liabilities
Measure success in 
improving returns on 
our assets
4.3% 2.9%
Revenue growth in 
Industrial
Third party sales growth in 
Industrial
Measure growth in 
strategically important 
business
(3.4)%* 1.2%*
Trade Working Capital 
as a percentage of 
annualised sales
Net inventories, trade 
receivables and trade 
payables/continuing 
annualised sales adjusted 
for other disposals
Generating cash 
available for 
reinvestment or 
distribution
17.1%** 17.9%
Operating cash flow Net cash flows from 
operating activities before 
investing and financing 
activities
Generating cash 
available for 
reinvestment or 
distribution
£55.9 million £36.9 million
Non-financial KPI
Recordable injury 
rates (RIR)
Number of recordable 
injuries/number of hours 
worked x 200,000
Measure our success in 
ensuring a safe working 
environment
1.2 1.8     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    29 
distorted by the significant movement 
in the US Dollar and Euro exchange 
rates against Sterling during the fourth 
quarter of the year. Expressed at 2007 
exchange rates, the ratio was 14.4%, 
which is a notable reduction from 
17.9% in 2007. £17.7 million or 32% of 
the Group’s operating cash flow was 
attributable to improved working capital 
management across both divisions. 
The Group is targeting to bring working 
capital as a percentage of revenue to 
below 16%. 
Operating cash flow, a critical measure, 
increased by more than 50% from £36.9 
million to £55.9 million. This strong 
cash performance is attributable both to 
improving operating margins and also 
to the improvement in working capital 
management. 
Interest Charge and Borrowings 
Net finance costs were £10.6 million 
(2007: £10.8 million).
The Group’s borrowings are mainly 
under the Revolving Credit Facility 
(“RCF”) provided by nine relationship 
banks. The Group complied with the 
financial and non-financial covenants at 
the end of 2008 and continues to monitor 
actual and forecast compliance carefully. 
The two key financial covenants comprise 
a gearing covenant expressed as a ratio 
of continuing EBITDA to net debt and 
an interest cover covenant expressed 
as EBITDA to interest. The applicable 
covenants are a maximum of 3 for the 
gearing ratio and a minimum of 5 for the 
interest cover ratio as at 31 December 
2008 (refer to note 22). As agreed with 
the Group’s banks in April 2007, these 
covenants will tighten during 2009 to 2.75 
in respect of gearing and remain at 5 for 
interest cover.  
Taxation
A tax credit of £nil (2007: tax credit of 
£0.1 million) on underlying operations 
includes partial recognition of US 
deferred tax of £2.9 million. Excluding 
the deferred tax credit the tax charge 
is £2.9 million which represents an 
underlying tax rate of 32.2%. The partial 
recognition of the deferred tax assets in 
the US follows the first profitable year 
in the US since demerger, with forecast 
profitability now underpinning the 
Group’s ability to benefit from brought 
forward tax losses as we move ahead. 
Cash Flow, Net Debt and Liquidity 
Net cash from operating activities was 
£55.9 million (2007: £36.9 million). 
The net cash inflow in the year was 
£7.0 million (2007: an outflow of £27.5 
million), after £33.6 million of capital 
expenditure (2007: £32.6 million), 
£9.6 million of net interest payments 
(2007: £10.4 million) and shareholder 
dividends of £5.1 million (2007: £7.0 
million). The net cash inflow on the sale 
of businesses was £17.2 million (2006: 
£42.0 million). Cash from operating 
activities benefited from an inflow of 
£17.7 million in respect of reduced 
working capital (2007: £2.4 million). 
Treasury 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its 
interest exposure and it has entered into 
interest rate hedges for its exposure 
to both US Dollar and Euro floating 
interest rates under the RCF. These 
interest hedges account for more than 
80% of the debt under the RCF.
The Group can consider hedging a 
proportion of the translation risk 
relating to earnings when this appears 
to be advantageous. There is limited 
transactional exposure as there is 
relatively little trading across currency 
borders. The bulk of raw material 
sourcing and other purchases are in 
the currency of operation, and the total 
volume of the Group’s business which is 
affected by relative currency movements 
is less than 10% of its turnover. It is the 
Group’s policy to hedge those exposures 
which are material for a period of up to 
12 months, using a specified range of 
financial instruments. Refer to note 22 
of the consolidated financial statements 
for more information on the Group’s 
foreign currency risk. 
The Group seeks to match the same 
proportional allocation between US 
Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona of debt 
drawn down under the RCF as applies 
between the net operating assets of the 
trading subsidiaries denominated in 
similar trading currencies. 
Table of Exchange Rates
   2008 2007
USD Average 1.85 2.00
  Year end 1.44 1.99
Euro Average 1.26 1.46
  Year end 1.03 1.36
Credit Risk
The Group has a history of limited 
bad debts and it is believed its major 
customers are of good credit quality. 
Credit insurance is used in most markets. 
However, the inevitable consequence 
of a severe recessionary environment 
with rapidly deteriorating conditions for 
the availability of credit means that the 
Group will increasingly assume balance 
sheet risk for some trading customers 
for whom credit insurance is either 
restricted or unavailable. The Group 
adopts a prudent policy for reviewing 
and advancing credit and for ensuring 
adequate provision for bad debts. Refer 
to note 18 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further information in 
respect of the Group’s credit risk.
Shareholder Fund Movements
Shareholder funds were created upon 
demerger from BBA. The Group has 
equity of £196.6 million (2007: £185.3 
million). Of these reserves, £86.9 million  
(2007: £83.1 million) are distributable 
reserves.
Retirement Benefits
The major retirement benefits or pension 
schemes are now defined contribution 
schemes, with the two most notable 
exceptions described more fully in 
note 25 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The Simpsonville, North 
Carolina scheme is now closed to 
new entrants and benefits are frozen 
to current members; the Washougal, 
Washington scheme is a relatively small 
defined benefit scheme, which remains 
open.
The net pension liability is calculated 
by the Group’s actuaries, and is based 
on the fair value of the schemes’ assets 
and the present value of the schemes’ 
liabilities. This net liability increased by 
£13.7 million during the year to £35.5 
million (2007: £21.8 million) primarily 
as a result of actuarial actuarial losses 
of £5.9 million and foreign exchange 
losses of £9.3 million. 
Principal Accounting Policies
The accounting policies used to prepare 
the Consolidated Financial Statements 
are set out in detail in note 2 on pages 
57 to 61. 30    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Business Review
continued
Principal Risks & Uncertainties
The following are the most significant 
risks identified by the Board and 
management:
1. Raw material costs
Raw materials represent the single 
most important input for the Group’s 
production, representing approximately 
55% of sales. Although there are a 
variety of raw materials used by the 
Group, the key raw materials are 
polypropylene and polyester. The prices 
of polypropylene and polyester are a 
function of, among other things, the price 
of crude oil and monomer and polymer 
manufacturing capacity and demand.
The Group’s business has been affected 
by significant increases in raw material 
prices over the last three years and 
the high prices of raw materials, 
especially polypropylene, have put 
pressure on the Group’s margins. 
However, more recently in the fourth 
quarter of 2008 raw material prices 
have fallen significantly in the wake 
of a weakening of oil prices and this 
has enabled the Group to benefit 
from increased gross margins. The 
Group is subject to contractual pass-
through arrangements on about 65% of 
revenues whereby polypropylene price 
increases or decreases are passed on 
to its customers. These pass-through 
arrangements are generally subject 
to a time lag of several months. There 
is therefore a material exposure to 
movements in raw material prices. 
Significant increases in raw material 
prices that cannot be passed on to 
customers could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s results 
and financial condition.
The Group can mitigate some of this risk 
through pass-through arrangements 
with some customers for polypropylene 
cost changes, selective hedging of 
polypropylene purchases and strategic 
alliances with polypropylene producers.
2. Customer and supplier dependency
Across certain markets in which the 
Group operates there is a high degree 
of dependency on maintaining good 
relationships with a relatively small 
number of key customers. The failure 
of the Group and its key customers 
to renew contracts could result in a 
significant reduction in the demand for 
its products. This is particularly the case 
for Procter & Gamble which, through a 
large number of different contracts and 
purchasing arrangements of varying 
durations, accounted for approximately 
27% of sales in 2008.
The Group has procedures in place 
to monitor and mitigate this risk 
and, historically, has been generally 
successful in agreeing new contracts 
with key customers or extending 
existing contracts. The Group continues 
to manage the Procter & Gamble 
relationship very closely.
Similar dependency arises in respect 
of maintaining regular supplies of 
polypropylene and other resins and 
fibres. There are a small number of 
critical suppliers in the global market 
and several of these have been 
adversely impacted by a combination 
of rapidly falling raw material prices 
and demand as well as the incidence of 
increased capacity coming on stream in 
the European markets. The Group seeks 
to mitigate this risk through diversity of 
supply and by negotiating Group wide 
contracts. 
3. Economics, market and trading 
conditions
Group sales, expenses and operating 
results could vary significantly from 
period to period as a result of a variety 
of factors, some of which are outside the 
Group’s control. These factors include 
general economic conditions, conditions 
specific to the market and conditions 
specific to the Group. A negative change 
in the economic conditions in the 
Group’s customer markets (including, 
for example, a downturn in the Canadian 
housing market, deterioration in 
consumer confidence or new materials 
entering the Group’s market place) 
could adversely impact the Group’s 
business. 
In addition, significant increases in 
energy costs, the cost of transport and 
distribution and employment costs 
in the locations where the Group’s 
manufacturing sites are based could 
adversely impact the profitability of the 
Group.  
4. Financial covenants
The Group has financial covenants 
relating to its main source of long-
term funding as set out in note 22 of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and as discussed in the Directors’ 
Report on page 38. The Group expects 
to comply with these covenants. In the 
event that forecast profitability is not 
achieved, there is a risk that the Group’s 
long-term funding would need to be 
renegotiated. 
The Group manages compliance with 
these covenants through careful 
monitoring of operating performance 
and cash flows, regular forecasts 
of future performance and tight 
management of capital expenditure. 
5. Competition
The Group faces competition from 
global competitors that provide 
similar products to those offered by 
the Group. Competition in the industry 
is based upon: range and quality 
of products offered; the ability to 
deliver new products; geographical 
reach; reputation; price; and client 
relationships. The hygiene market 
is characterised by large customers 
and some production over-capacity. 
While these risks have not changed 
in nature over recent periods, prices 
and demand in the Group’s markets 
could be negatively affected if supply 
increases significantly or if important 
customers reduce demand or request 
significantly reduced prices. In response 
to a changing competitive environment, 
the Group may elect from time to time 
to make certain pricing, service or 
marketing decisions that could have an 
adverse effect on its sales, results of 
operations and financial condition.
This risk is mitigated by the actions 
described at 3 above.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    31 
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITy
Fiberweb endeavours to adopt a socially 
responsible attitude at all times. Our 
businesses apply procedures appropriate 
to and compliant with local laws and 
operating conditions. In all our activities, 
we strive to ensure employee safety, 
and seek to protect the environment, 
public and occupational health, and the 
community within which we operate, 
while promoting profitability and business 
growth. The training and development 
opportunities and initiatives provided to 
employees encourage the development 
of the skills, resources and knowledge 
they need to improve our business 
performance in this key area of focus.
Policies and procedures have been 
established at Group level which 
provide a guiding framework for our 
businesses to apply in conjunction 
with local practices. These include 
policies on ethical business practices, 
anti-trust, equal opportunities and anti-
harassment guidelines, and disability, 
amongst others. Our Market Abuse 
and Inside Information Policies govern 
behaviour in respect of share dealing, 
market abuse and dissemination of 
information to the market.
Our manufacturing processes involve the 
use of large and complex manufacturing 
equipment and the Board attaches great 
importance to the safety and wellbeing 
of our people. Matters relating to health 
and safety performance are reviewed 
and discussed at each Board meeting 
and as discussed below, we measure 
and track our employee safety record 
continuously.
Our businesses support the local 
communities in which they operate. 
Examples of some of the initiatives our 
people have been involved in during the 
year are discussed in more detail below.
Employees
Our people are one of our most 
important and valuable resources. Their 
experience and expertise is matched 
by their commitment to innovation and 
excellence and their drive to improve 
our performance. 
Fiberweb’s policy is to provide equal 
opportunities for employment regardless 
of gender, race, colour, national origin, 
religion, age, marital status, sexual 
orientation or disability. The Company 
complies with anti-discrimination 
requirements in relevant jurisdictions. 
Disabled people are given full and fair 
consideration for employment, training, 
career development and promotion, 
based on their skills and abilities.
Fiberweb believes in open 
communication channels across its 
businesses and employees are regularly 
provided with information concerning the 
performance and prospects of their local 
business unit and the global business. 
Regular global communications are 
used to provide a range of information, 
and employee councils and other local 
forums enable employees’ views to 
be heard and taken into account. As 
in previous years, in 2008, Fiberweb 
held a Management Conference to 
communicate and discuss the progress, 
challenges and future strategy and 
plans of the business. The content was 
disseminated to employees worldwide 
via a variety of media and events. 
Health and Safety 
During 2008 our commitment to 
continually improve our health and 
safety performance through systems 
and initiatives which are designed to 
deliver a successful health and safety 
programme has been maintained. 
We recognise that the delivery 
of a successful health and safety 
management programme depends on 
the commitment of all our employees 
to Fiberweb’s safety principles. This 
commitment can be seen throughout 
the organisation, with accountability 
being clear and demonstrated in all our 
facilities.
Our health and safety programme 
includes the following key elements.
1. Safety performance metrics
Of the highest priority and a core 
business value is the health and safety 
of all Fiberweb employees. Significant 
resources are committed at every 
Fiberweb facility to promote a safe and 
healthy working environment for all 
employees. Policies, procedures and 
initiatives are designed to prevent the 
occurrence of incidents and injuries, and 
to foster a positive safety awareness 
culture. In addition we conduct thorough 
investigations to identify the root cause 
of injuries, and develop follow up plans 
to eliminate unsafe acts and conditions, 
reducing the potential for recurrence. 
A metric we use to measure safety 
performance is to track and evaluate 
our facilities’ Recordable Injury Rate 
(“RIR”) trends which enables us 
to set targets to monitor and drive 
improvement through the elimination of 
unsafe practices and prevent injuries. 
Fiberweb uses RIR as the primary 
health and safety performance metric 
to create consistency globally. RIR is an 
indicator of safety performance and is 
continuously tracked to identify positive 
and negative safety trends. Fiberweb 
employs stringent criteria for defining 
a recordable incident with minimum 
standards consistent with those used by 
the US Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (“OSHA”) and the UK 
Health and Safety Executive.
In 2008 Fiberweb improved its RIR by 
33% finishing the year with an RIR of 
1.2, compared to 1.8 in 2007. It also 
outperformed the representative 
nonwovens industry average of 4.3. In 
total six Fiberweb facilities globally 
completed the whole of 2008 without 
a single recordable injury. Indeed, 
our Green Bay, USA facility has been 
recognised at both the national and 
state levels for safety and excellence 
including being awarded OSHA VPP 
Star status, and in 2008 achieved eleven 
years without a lost time injury and five 
years without a recordable injury.
Another key metric that we track and 
evaluate is the severity of each injury, 
which reflects the severity or potential 
severity of each incident and represents 
the number of lost workdays caused by 
an injury. In 2008 Fiberweb`s severity 
index recorded a 13% improvement 
falling from 31.0 to 27.1. These positive 
and encouraging trends show the 
benefit of continued emphasis on safety 
at all levels of the organization. Added 
emphasis is achieved through continuing 
adherence to safety programmes and 
key improvement initiatives which 
provide employees with the tools to 
further improve performance. 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Fiberweb RIR
Industry Average 32    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Business Review
continued
2. “Back to Basics II” (“B2B2”) safety 
initiative
A constituent part of the health and 
safety continuous improvement 
programme, involves the “Back to 
Basics” (“B2B”) initiative developed 
in 2007, which continued to provide a 
positive impact and focus on health and 
safety. The B2B initiative was designed 
to address the historical root causes 
of injuries, and to identify situations 
of potentially high severity injuries or 
incidents, and resulted in improved 
lockout/tagout procedures, procedures 
to reduce exposure to cutting blades, 
close proximity awareness and improved 
investigation and follow-up processes. 
In 2008 the next generation of Back to 
Basics: Back to Basics II (B2B2) was 
developed to reinforce the original Back 
to Basics process, and to add additional 
focus by adding daily facility tours by 
the local Operations Leadership teams. 
The benefits of B2B2 are expected to 
continue into 2009.
3. Early injury intervention process
Our Early Injury Intervention process 
in the USA, which provides employees 
with immediate access to medical 
care upon recognising early symptoms 
of musculoskeletal injuries (e.g. 
cumulative trauma, sprains/strains of 
the back, arms and legs) that may be 
work or non-work related, has proved 
to be a successful element of our safety 
management program. With early 
intervention, symptoms are treated 
sooner potentially preventing more 
serious injury and reducing recovery 
time, lost productivity, and high medical 
costs. The programme also facilitates 
ergonomic improvements through the 
collaboration between employees and 
medical professionals.
4. Behavioural based safety 
A significant contribution to Fiberweb`s 
safety performance at our American 
facilities is attributable to the 
development and introduction of 
behavioural based safety systems. This 
programme teaches employees the 
skills needed to identify and address 
unsafe behaviours in a positive manner, 
which helps sustain our positive safety 
culture. We are continuing to enhance 
and expand these systems worldwide, 
and are focused on assisting facilities 
with implementing systems that suit 
facility-spe cific cultures.
5. Process safety management
Whilst Fiberweb facilities are not 
regulated under the American 
OSHA process safety standard, our 
manufacturing facilities continue 
to apply OSHA’s process safety 
management principles to help in the 
recognition and control of process safety 
risks. Employees participate in Hazard 
and Operability (HAZOP) Studies which 
provide participants with the skills and 
tools necessary to identify and control 
potential safety hazards associated 
with critical processes. In 2008, formal 
HAZOP studies were conducted at six 
Fiberweb locations globally. 
6. Incident investigation and reporting
A critical component in preventing 
injuries is incident reporting and root 
cause analysis. Fiberweb has an online 
incident reporting tool which has been 
further enhanced during 2008 by the 
addition of a root cause analysis tool 
which is designed to facilitate true root 
cause investigation of a workplace 
incident and to help identify the 
proper corrective actions to prevent 
recurrence. 
7. Regulatory compliance auditing
Fiberweb’s health and safety compliance 
auditing programme is designed to 
check compliance with corporate 
health and safety requirements as 
well as applicable legal regulations. 
Our standardised auditing approach 
continues to provide consistent focus on 
identified health and safety priorities. 
The programme provides for a detailed 
compliance audit at each facility every 
three years with a follow-up audit during 
alternate years. Local action plans are 
developed based on recommendations 
made during audits and are monitored. 
In 2008, compliance audits were 
performed at all European and Asian 
facilities, while follow-up audits were 
performed at each facility in the 
Americas. Safety management training 
and on site support will be added to the 
audits in 2009. 
8. Health and safety lead team meetings 
Fiberweb conducts Health and Safety 
Lead Team meetings to identify and 
develop health and safety initiatives 
and further increase the Group-wide 
focus on integrating health and safety 
issues into the broader corporate 
social responsibility context. They are 
attended by the Group’s health and 
safety professionals and provide the 
opportunity to discuss topics that are 
directly impacting our facilities and to 
share best practice.  
The Environment
Fiberweb has a continuing commitment 
to developing and promoting products 
and processes that reduce waste 
and adverse environmental impacts. 
This includes both the efficient use of 
materials and energy in design and 
product development, and an awareness 
of the effect on the environment of our 
manufacturing processes.
Fiberweb encourages each of 
its facilities to develop its own 
environmental programmes and to work 
towards reducing our environmental 
footprint. We continue our focus on 
identifying and improving performance 
in key areas of environmental impact, 
which include waste reduction, energy 
consumption, water consumption, the 
use of recycled and biodegradable 
materials, and packaging. 
Although businesses are encouraged to 
report all environmental impacts, key 
performance information is collected 
twice a year through the Environmental 
Index, an electronic data collection 
system. Reports are issued annually 
and provide a means by which our 
businesses can set improvement 
targets. Data on the global business 
environmental impacts for 2008 will be 
available during the first half of 2009.
Sustainability and the Supply Chain 
Fiberweb continues to work actively 
to design and develop products that 
promote sustainable development 
principles and do not adversely impact 
the environment, health, or safety 
of the communities we serve. This 
is pursued primarily through our 
R&D innovation strategy as well as      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    33 
centralised procurement or, where this 
is impractical, local sourcing. 
Fiberweb actively seeks to develop and 
market products which use renewable 
and recycled materials. One such 
is EcoFabrics which is a nonwoven 
bi-component fabric combining 
environmentally friendly and renewable 
Inego™ made from natural renewable 
fibres, with a polypropylene coating to 
enhance performance. We also offer 
traditional carded fabrics made from 
100% renewable fibres which are 
compostable in standard composting 
facilities. 
The investment in a polyester recycling 
plant at Old Hickory made in 2007 
generates a saving of approximately 
21% of the facility`s overall polyester 
requirement. It is able to recycle 14 
million pounds of polyester per year 
and the reduction in waste and savings 
brought about by this major recycling 
initiative have a significant impact in 
terms of energy, environment, cost and 
sustainability. 
Sustainability also plays an important 
role in our research and development 
activities where we seek to develop 
ways to reduce raw material usage and 
energy consumption, and work with 
customers and suppliers to develop 
products with improved sustainability.
EU REACH Regulation
During 2008, the Fiberweb internal 
taskforce leading our efforts to 
ensure compliance with the EU 
Chemicals Registration, Evaluation and 
Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) 
Regulation EC1907/2006 gathered 
and collated details of raw materials, 
packaging materials and process 
auxiliaries used in the manufacture 
of our products meeting the REACH 
registration thresholds, identified 
materials critical to our production 
processes, and confirmed compliance by 
our suppliers by the 30 November 2008 
deadline. The taskforce will continue to 
monitor our suppliers to ensure future 
registration compliance.
The Community
Fiberweb`s businesses have a 
continuing commitment to their local 
communities through a range of 
organisations and initiatives. Examples 
of the support given in 2008 are:
North America
In our US operations our employees 
support their local communities in a 
variety of ways including the donation 
of equipment and voluntary work for 
local schools and organisations. We also 
contribute to national charities such as 
the American Cancer Society, United 
Way, and Habitat for Humanity. 
United Way is a nationally recognised, 
community-based organisation that 
provides local funding to local non-
profit organisations across the US. This 
support is provided through employee 
donations.
Our support for Habitat for Humanity 
comes through the supply of volunteers 
and materials to build low cost 
affordable housing. 
Europe
Fiberweb Italia has provided financial 
support to the Alessi Foundation, a non-
profit organisation recognised by the 
Italian Government. 
Fiberweb Sweden sponsors a children’s 
cancer charity and supports an anti drug 
campaign and other activities in local 
schools.
Terram in the UK has a programme 
to support local schools through the 
UK Career Academy Foundation, a 
national movement of employers, 
schools and colleges, working to raise 
the aspirations of 16-19 year olds and 
inform their career development. 
China
During 2008 Fiberweb China provided 
much needed help to the Sichuan 
earthquake victims through the 
organisation of blood donation facilities. 
In addition voluntary donations by 
employees raised RMB 50,000 to which 
was added a contribution from Fiberweb 
China of RMB 100,000 which was used to 
provide essential healthcare products. 34    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
1. Malcolm Coster (64)
Non executive Chairman 
Chairman, Nomination Committee
He joined Fiberweb as Chairman-
designate in June 2006, was appointed 
to the Board on 30 August 2006 and was 
appointed Chairman with effect from 
the demerger. He is Chairman of DMW 
Group and a non executive director of 
Universe Group plc. He is also a member 
of the International Advisory Board of 
Moore, Clayton & Co., an international 
financial advisory group. He was formerly 
Chairman of MTL Instruments Group 
plc and a non executive director of 
the Performing Right Society, British 
Technology Group plc and Torotrak plc. 
An engineer by training, he was President 
of Europe, Middle East and Africa for 
UNISYS Corporation between1994 and 
1997 and Chairman of UNISYS Limited 
and a member of the board, and an 
executive partner, at Coopers & Lybrand 
between 1986 and 1994.
2. Daniel Dayan (44)
Chief Executive Officer
He joined Fiberweb in June 2005 as its 
Chief Executive Officer and was appointed 
to the Board on 21 July 2006. Between 
1994 and 2005 he was employed by Novar 
plc, in a variety of general management 
and functional positions, including Head 
of Corporate Development and Chief 
Executive Officer of Novar’s largest 
division, Intelligent Building Systems.  
He was a director of Novar plc from 
January 2004 until its acquisition by 
Honeywell in March 2005. Earlier in his 
career, he worked in manufacturing 
management with ICI plc and as a 
management consultant for Arthur D. 
Little. He is a chartered mechanical 
engineer.
3. Daniel Abrams (53)
Chief Financial Officer
He joined Fiberweb in February 2008 as 
Director and Chief Financial Officer.  
Prior to joining Fiberweb he was most 
recently Chief Financial Officer of 
Cambridge Display Technology Inc until 
July 2006 and was Finance Director of 
Xenova Group plc between 1997 and 
2005. He has also held senior finance 
roles with Diageo plc and PepsiCo. Inc. 
He holds an MA in law from Cambridge, 
is a qualified barrister and is a chartered 
accountant having qualified at Arthur 
Andersen & Co. He has been a member 
of the Financial Reporting Review Panel 
since January 2007.
4. r ichard Stillwell (59)
Non executive director  
Senior Independent Director 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
He was appointed to the Board on 30 
August 2006 and is the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and the 
Senior Independent Director . He was 
a non executive Director of BBA Group 
plc from 1998 until 2006 and Chairman 
of its Remuneration Committee. He is 
also a non executive Director of St Ives 
plc, Penna Consulting Plc and TBI Plc. 
He is Chairman of Scott Bader Company 
Limited and is a qualified barrister . Until 
August 2000, he was Executive Vice-
President Industrial Specialities at ICI 
plc, where he had held various posts 
since 1974.
5. Peter Hickman (45)
Non executive director 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
He was appointed to the Board on 31 
August 2006 and is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. He is Chief Financial 
Officer of the international law firm, 
Linklaters. Prior to joining Linklaters 
he held senior roles at HBOS plc from 
2004 to 2008 including responsibility for 
the group’s financial reporting, strategic 
planning and tax affairs. Prior to joining 
HBOS plc, he was a partner at Ernst & 
Young having worked there since 1985. 
He is a qualified Chartered Accountant, 
a member of the Chartered Institute of 
Bankers in Scotland and has an MA in 
engineering.
6. brian Taylorson (53)
Non executive director 
He was appointed to the Board on 25 
September 2006. He is currently Finance 
Director of Elementis plc, a global 
speciality chemicals company, a position 
he has held since April 2003. Prior to 
joining Elementis in 2002, he was Head 
of European Chemicals M&A at KPMG 
Corporate Finance. From 1983 to 2000 
he held a number of finance positions at 
Dow Chemical Company. He has an MA in 
Engineering from Cambridge University, 
is a qualified Chartered Accountant and a 
member of the Association of Corporate 
Treasurers. 
Board of Directors
THE BOARD CONSISTS OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF ExECUTIv E, FINANCE DIRECTOR 
AND THREE INDEPENDENT NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTORS AS FOLLOwS:
1 2 3     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    35 
4 5 6
A Strong Board – Complementary mix of skills and experience
     Historic    
     knowledge   Experienced
    Relevant and familiarity  Business and  listed
 Manufacturing Turnaround Financial industry with Fiberweb  commercial company International
 experience experience qualifications experience businesses experience director operations
executive directors
Daniel Dayan 
Chief Executive Officer 3 3  3 3 3 3 3
Daniel Abrams 
Chief Financial Officer  3 3   3 3 3
Non executive directors
 
Malcolm Coster  
Chairman 3 3  3  3 3 3
Peter Hickman   3 3  3  3
Richard Stillwell 3   3 3 3 3 3
Brian Taylorson 3 3 3 3  3 3 3     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    36 
Fiberweb Executive Team
wITH CHANgES IN ExECUTIvE MANAgEMENT DURINg THE yEAR, 
FIBERw EB HAS RENEwED ITS STRONg ExECUTIvE TEAM AND ADDED 
CONSIDERABLE ExPERIENCE IN INTERNATIONAL MANUFACTURINg
1. Daniel Abrams
Chief Financial Officer
2. Bridget Bradshaw 
Head of HR and Change
3. Hans Jörg Oberberg
President, Europe Industrial
4. Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive Officer
5. Carsten Heldman
Head of Research and Development
6. Derek Chan
President, Asia
7. John Juric
President, Americas Industrial
8. Ian Barnes
President, Consumer Fabrics
1
2
4
5 6
7 8
3     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    37 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors present their annual report together with the 
financial statements and auditor’s report for the year ended  
31 December 2008.
Principal Activities and Business Review
Fiberweb is an international group of businesses dedicated to the 
development, manufacturing and supply of specialist nonwoven 
fabrics. It operates principally in Europe, North America, and Asia, 
and has a strong portfolio of products and brands, and market 
leading positions in several countries.
Fiberweb plc is the Group holding company. The subsidiary and 
associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net 
assets of the Group in the year are listed on page 103.
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the 
business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 
2008, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end 
of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (known as a ‘Business Review’).  
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review 
can be found in the pages listed below, which are incorporated in 
this report by reference.
  Pages
Business Review  12 to 24
Operations  17 to 24
Financial Review  25 to 30
Review of Results  25 to 27
Key Performance Indicators  28
Risks and Uncertainties 29 and 30
Corporate Social Responsibility (including employee, 
environmental, social and community matters)  31 to 33
The Business Review also includes a description of the vision and 
strategy of the Group, and its markets and external environment, on 
pages 14 to 17, and is supplemented by the Chairman’s Statement 
and Chief Executive’s Review.
  Pages
Chairman’s Statement 6 and 7
Chief Executive’s Review 8 to 10
Results and Dividends
The continuing underlying profit before taxation of the Group was 
£9.0 million (2007: £3.0 million). The full results for the year, which 
were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2009, are 
set out in the accompanying financial statements and the notes 
thereto on pages 53 to 98.
An interim dividend of 1.70 pence per ordinary share was paid on 
5 November 2008. The Directors recommend the payment of a 
final dividend for 2008 of 2.50 pence per share (2007: 2.50 pence), 
making a total for the year of 4.20 pence (2007: 4.20 pence). Subject 
to shareholder approval, the dividend will be payable on 27 May 
2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
24 April 2009.
A dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) is in place that allows 
shareholders to purchase additional shares in the Company 
using their cash dividend. Further information regarding the plan, 
including participation in respect of the 2008 final dividend, is set 
out in Shareholder Information on page 108. 
Acquisitions and Disposals 
On 19 February 2008, the Group agreed to acquire a 65% interest 
in and to invest US$2.5 million into a Chinese polyester spunbond 
fabric manufacturer, Fiberweb Hengguan (Tianjin) Speciality 
Nonwovens Company Limited. 
On 21 May 2008, the Group disposed of its 15% investment in Saudi 
German Nonwovens Products Company for US$7.3 million in cash.
On 20 June 2008, the Group disposed of its wholly owned subsidiary 
Fiberweb Bidim Industria e Comercio de Nao-Tecidos Ltda for 
Brazilian Real 55.5 million subject to a post completion working 
capital adjustment resulting in a payment to the purchaser of  
US$ 1.4 million.
Capital Structure 
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company, 
including movements during the year and the number of shares 
in issue at the end of the year, are shown in note 28 on page 93. 
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no 
right to fixed income, and each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company. The rights attaching 
to the ordinary shares are defined in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. All issued shares are fully paid. 
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, or on 
the size of a holding, or on voting rights, which are all matters 
governed by the Articles of Association. The directors are not aware 
of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 
voting rights. No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital, so far as the directors are aware. 
Details of the significant holdings of ordinary shares are shown 
in the table of Substantial Shareholdings below. The shares held 
by the Fiberweb Employee Benefit Trust have no special rights 
with regard to control of the Company. Details of employee share 
schemes are set out in note 27.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors 
are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.  
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of 
the shareholders. 
The powers of the Company’s directors, including any powers 
in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its 
shares, are described in the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation, and in 
the Schedule of Powers Reserved for the Board which can be found 
on the Company’s website. 
The Company has various agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as 
commercial contracts, bank facility agreements (including the 
US$405 million multi-currency revolving credit facility), property  38    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
lease arrangements and employee share plans. The directors 
are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its 
directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 2 May 2008, shareholders 
approved a resolution authorising the Company to make market 
purchases of up to approximately 10 per cent of its existing 
ordinary share capital. The authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 April 2009 
unless renewed. Accordingly, a special resolution to increase this 
authority to approximately 15% will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, details of which are set out in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report. 
The Company did not purchase any of its issued ordinary shares 
during the year under the authority mentioned above.
Substantial Shareholdings and Voting Rights
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the 
Company’s website. As at 24 February 2009, the Company has been 
notified under DTR 5 of the following significant holdings of voting 
rights in its shares:
   Number of % voting 
  voting rights of total 
 Name of Holder (shares) rights
 Franklin Resources Inc 15,753,129 12.86
 JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Ltd 13,657,541 11.15
 The Jerry Zucker Revocable Trust 12,764,121 10.42
 Standard Life Investments Ltd 11,382,078 9.30
 AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 6,382,809 5.21
 Schroder Investment Management 5,990,824 4.89
 River & Mercantile Asset Management LLP 5,668,205 4.67
 
Property Values
The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the 
Group’s properties are not substantially different from the values 
included in the Group’s financial statements.
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Business Review on pages 12 to 24. The financial position of 
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial Review on pages 25 to 30. In addition, 
notes 22 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements include 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to 
liquidity risk. Credit risk exposure is discussed in note 18.
As highlighted in note 22, the Group’s primary source of funds 
since demerger is a $405 million (originally $439.5 million) multi-
currency, revolving credit facility (“RCF”), provided by a syndicate 
of several international banks, which matures in 2011 and which 
is subject to the financial covenants set out on page 83 in note 
22. At 31 December 2008, $225.6 million was drawn down under 
the RCF. The Group prepares regular business forecasts and 
monitors its projected compliance with its banking covenants 
under the RCF, which is reviewed by the Board. Forecasts are 
then adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal risks to 
which the Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in raw material 
prices, exchange rates and best estimates of the possible impact 
of the macroeconomic environment on the Group’s underlying 
trading results. Consideration is then given to the potential actions 
available to management to mitigate the impact of one or more 
of the sensitivities. The Group’s central and sensitised forecasts 
show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of 
its current facility and remain covenant compliant. In the event that 
forecast profitability is not achieved, there is a risk that the Group’s 
long-term funding would need to be renegotiated, as set out in 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 30.
After making enquires, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Charitable and Political Donations
The Company made no political donations during the year. Group 
donations to charities worldwide were £32,000 (2007: £88,000), with 
UK charities receiving £7,000 (2007: £nil).
Supplier Payment Policy
It is the Company’s and Group’s policy to settle terms of payment 
with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to 
ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment, and 
to abide by terms of payment. Trade creditors of the Group at  
31 December 2008 were equivalent to 55 days’ purchases (2007: 
47 days) based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers 
during the year.
Board of Directors
The names of the directors of the Company as at the date of this 
report, together with their dates of appointment, their biographical 
details and details of their skills and experience, are shown 
on pages 34 and 35. Simon Bowles resigned as a director on  
31 January 2008. 
Daniel Dayan and Peter Hickman will retire by rotation under 
the Articles at the Annual General Meeting. Daniel Dayan offers 
himself for re-election by shareholders. A profile of Daniel Dayan 
is given on page 34. Peter Hickman will retire at the Annual General 
Meeting and is not seeking re-election.
Directors’ Interests
Details of the directors’ service contracts, remuneration and 
interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 50. Other than their service 
contracts, no director had any material interest in any contract of 
significance with any Group company at any time during the year.
   Number of % voting
  voting rights of total
Name of Holder (shares) rights
Franklin Resources Inc 15,753,129 12.86
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Ltd 13,657,541 11.15
The Jerry Zucker Revocable Trust 12,764,121 10.42
Standard Life Investments Ltd 11,382,078 9.30
AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 6,382,809 5.21
Schroder Investment Management 5,990,824 4.89
River & Mercantile Asset Management LLP 5,668,205 4.67     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    39 
Directors’ Indemnities
With the exception of Daniel Abrams the Company entered into a 
Deed of Indemnity with each of the directors of the Company on  
19 October 2006 and each Deed of Indemnity remains in force at the 
date of this report. The terms of each of these deeds are identical 
and reflect the statutory provisions on indemnities introduced by 
the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) 
Act 2004. Under the terms of each deed, the Company undertakes 
to indemnify the relevant director, to the fullest extent permitted 
by law, against any and all liability, howsoever caused (including 
by that director’s own negligence), suffered or incurred by that 
director in the course of acting as a director or employee of the 
Company or any member of the Group. The Company entered into 
a Deed of Indemnity with Daniel Abrams on identical terms on  
1 February 2008.
Similarly, the Company entered into a Deed Poll of Indemnity in 
favour of the Company Secretary and other persons discharging 
managerial responsibility on 30 October 2006. The terms of the 
deed poll are similar to the terms of the Deed of Indemnity entered 
into with the directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity, Deed Poll of Indemnity and the Company’s 
Articles of Association are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the Company’s registered office and will also be 
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s third Annual General Meeting will be held at Baker 
& McKenzie LLP, 100 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6JA on 
Thursday 30 April 2009 at 11.30am. Enclosed with this report is the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting, which sets out the resolutions to 
be considered and approved at the meeting. These are explained in 
a letter from the Chairman, which accompanies the Notice.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of the approval of 
this annual report confirms that:
w So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
w The director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985  
(as amended).
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company 
will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 24 February 2009 and is 
signed on its behalf by:
Tony Holland
Company Secretary
Registered Office: 
1 Victoria Villas 
Richmond on Thames  
London 
TW9 2GW 40    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
CORPORATE GOvERNANCE
Fiberweb plc is committed to complying with the best practice 
principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted 
by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 (“the Code”). During 
the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company considers that 
it has complied in full with the provisions set out in Section 1 of 
the Code, except in respect of Code provision D.1.1, as the Senior 
Independent Director did not meet major shareholders during the 
year, and in respect of Code provision A.4.1, as independent non-
executive directors do not form a majority of the members of the 
Nomination Committee. Details and explanations of the application 
of the Code are given below. 
The Role of the Board
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the success of the 
Company. The Board meets regularly to determine the strategic 
direction of the Group and to review operating, financial and risk 
performance. Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board 
Committees as described later in this report.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board that 
includes approval of the following:
w the Group’s long term objectives and strategy;
w  acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above 
certain thresholds;
w all guarantees and treasury related transactions above certain 
thresholds;
w the financial statements and assessment of financial performance;
w  the Company’s dividend policy;
w  transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company 
shares;
w  the Group’s risk management strategy;
w  legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain 
thresholds; 
w  appointments to the Board and the appointment of the Company 
Secretary; 
w  Group policies and the scope of delegations to Board Committees 
and executive management of the Group; and
w directors’ conflicts of interest.
The full schedule of matters reserved for Board approval can 
be viewed on the Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com .  
The schedule of matters is reviewed on an annual basis. Matters 
outside the scope of the formal schedule of matters are decided 
by management in accordance with the delegated authority limits 
within the Group Authority Limits Policy.
In order to ensure that all matters are given due consideration, the 
Board has adopted an annual schedule of agenda items, which is 
reviewed yearly. 
These include:
w  annual strategy review;
w  divisional updates and business plans;
w  annual budget setting and approval;
w  review of Group policies; and
w  patent portfolio review.
At each meeting, the Board receives information from the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on the performance 
and results of the Group and individual operating businesses, 
the Group’s current financial position and updates on any other 
significant matters. The Divisional Presidents and Global Head of 
Research and Development present to the Board at least once a 
year. In addition, other senior managers such as the Head of HR 
and Change and Head of Legal update the Board on developments 
in their area of responsibility.
The directors are generally provided with detailed and comprehensive 
papers in advance of each Board meeting. The agenda is set by the 
Chairman in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the 
timeliness and quality of information and is responsible for advising 
the Board on corporate governance matters and Board procedures. 
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the 
Company Secretary. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board Committees. 
The directors may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in relation to their responsibilities as directors. 
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in 
this regard in the period under review.
The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held during 
the year and individual attendance by directors at those meetings 
are set out in the table below.
Note:
Malcolm Coster, Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams all attended meetings of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee at the invitation of the 
Chairmen of those Committees.
    Audit r emuneration Nomination 
   Full board Committee Committee Committee
 Number of meetings held during the year 12 4 5 1
 Attendance:
 Malcolm Coster Chairman 12 4 5 1
 Daniel Dayan CeO 12 4 5 1
 Daniel Abrams CFO 9 4 4 –
 Peter Hickman Non executive director 12 4 5 1
 r ichard Stillwell Non executive director 11 4 5 1
 brian Taylorson Non executive director   8 3 3 –     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    41 
The Board, Board Balance and Independence
The Board comprises two executive directors and four non executive 
directors (including the Chairman) who contribute a wide range of 
complementary skills and experience. Details of each director’s 
skills and experience are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The Chairman of the Board is Malcolm Coster. The Chairman’s 
other significant commitments are set out on page 34. Since 
the last report, the Chairman has resigned as Chairman of MTL 
Instruments Group plc
The Chief Executive Officer is Daniel Dayan. Richard Stillwell is 
the Senior Independent Director. He is available to shareholders 
if they have concerns that the normal channels of contact with the 
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer would not resolve.
The Board believes that there is an appropriate balance of executive 
and non executive directors on the Board, without one individual or 
group dominating the Board’s decision-making process.
The Board has determined all its non executive directors to 
be independent in character and judgement. The non executive 
Chairman, Malcolm Coster, was considered independent in 
character and judgement on appointment. Whilst the assessment 
of independence is not required for a serving Chairman under 
the Code, the Board considers its Chairman to be independent, 
notwithstanding his fee structure, which allows for the payment of 
his fees in cash and shares. Further details of the Chairman’s fee 
arrangement are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 50.
The Board will assess the independence of its non executive 
directors on a continuous basis.
Following the introduction on 1 October 2008 of the statutory 
duty on directors to avoid situations which have or may have an 
interest which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests 
of the Company, the Nominations Committee has been given 
responsibility for considering and if appropriate authorising such 
conflict situations on such terms as are considered necessary, 
or if material referring them to the Board, on an ongoing basis. 
Any director in a conflicting or potentially conflicting situation is 
excluded from any decision. No conflict situations have arisen since 
1 October 2008.
Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and 
there is a clear division of responsibilities between these roles. In 
accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted a formal written 
statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement 
and contribution of all non executive and executive directors. In 
conjunction with the Company Secretary, he is responsible for 
ensuring that directors receive information in an accurate, clear 
and timely manner, and for promoting effective decision making.  
He is also responsible for ensuring that directors continually 
update their skills and knowledge. The Chairman has active contact 
and involvement with the executive directors and the affairs of the 
Company. This serves to keep him abreast of current business 
issues but also provides the executive directors with access to an 
independent opinion on day to day business decisions. 
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for the day to day 
management of the Group’s businesses and acts in accordance 
with the authority delegated by the Board. He is responsible for 
developing and proposing a strategy for consideration and adoption 
by the Board and for implementing the Board’s strategies, decisions 
and policies. He is also responsible for ensuring that the business 
strategy and activities are effectively communicated and promoted 
within and outside the business, building positive relationships with 
the Company’s stakeholders and for creating and developing the 
Company’s culture.
Board Appointments
Primary responsibility for planned and progressive refreshing of 
the Board lies with the Board. The Board, through the work of the 
Nomination Committee, ensures that there is a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors. 
Further details of the work of the Nomination Committee are set 
out below.
Appointments of non executive directors are made by the Board 
for an initial term of three years, which is subject to the usual 
regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance of 
their duties. Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but 
may be made by mutual agreement.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every 
three years.
On appointment, all non executive directors are advised of the time 
commitment expected of them to fulfil their duties.
Letters of appointment for the non executive directors are available 
for inspection on request.
Board Induction and Professional Development
The Board has adopted a formal written programme for the 
induction of new directors to familiarise themselves with the 
Group’s businesses, understand the goals, objectives and mission 
of the Company and develop an awareness and understanding of the 
views of the Company’s major shareholders. The programme is also 
structured to enable the new director to gain an understanding of 
his or her own specific duties and responsibilities. The programme, 
developed in accordance with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries 
and Administrators guidelines on Board induction, is made up of a 
combination of selected written corporate information, meetings 
with key senior management and site visits, and can be tailored 
to meet each new director’s specific needs, skills and experience. 
Where a non executive director is also being appointed a member 
of one of the Board Committees, his or her induction will cover 
matters such as the role of and terms of reference of the relevant 
Committee.
In order to maintain, develop and update directors’ knowledge and 
capabilities, the Board and its Committees are briefed on corporate 
governance and regulatory developments as they arise. The Audit 
Committee is briefed on technical and accounting matters as a 
matter of routine at each meeting by senior management and the 
external auditors. The directors receive comprehensive training in 
respect of their statutory duties, the disclosure obligations under 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and the Listing Rules. A 
continuous programme of development will occur as needs require.
The Board regards performance evaluation as an important part of 
monitoring and improving its effectiveness, and a formal internal 
appraisal of the Board and individual directors (including the Board 
Committees) was undertaken during the year. This involved the 
Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, obtaining views from and 
evaluating the performance of the other individual directors, and 
the non executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director 
assessing the performance of the Chairman.  42    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
CORPORATE GOvERNANCE
Board Committees
The terms of reference of the principal Committees of the Board, 
the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees, are available 
on the Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com
Remuneration Committee
The details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 50.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of three independent non executive 
directors and is chaired by Peter Hickman. Its other members are 
Richard Stillwell and Brian Taylorson.
Both Peter Hickman and Brian Taylorson are qualified Chartered 
Accountants and currently hold or recently held senior finance 
roles in major UK listed public companies.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include all matters 
listed in Code provision C.3.2 with the exception of risk management 
which is reviewed by the Board as a whole. The terms of reference 
are reviewed annually and any proposed revisions formally approved 
and adopted by the Board.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and their 
remuneration. The Committee reviews the external auditors’ 
independence, and considers the nature, scope and results of the 
auditors’ work and the provision of non-audit services by them. 
The Committee focuses particularly on compliance with legal 
and other regulatory requirements, accounting standards and 
ensuring that an effective system of internal controls is maintained.  
The Committee may consider any financial matter that may have an 
impact on the Company. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the annual and interim financial statements and 
biannual trading statements remains with the Board.
The Committee normally meets not less than three times a year at 
dates to coincide with the financial reporting cycle. The Committee 
also meets privately with the external auditors at least twice a year 
and with the Internal Audit Manager once. The Chairman may call 
a meeting at the request of the executive directors or that of the 
external auditors.
In addition to Committee members, the Chairman of the Board, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, 
Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors normally attend 
meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. 
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Audit 
Committee considered the following matters and took the following 
actions in the discharge of its duties:
w	 reviewed and advised the Board on the financial statements in 
the 2008 report and accounts;
w	 reviewed and assessed the audit services provided and the 
effectiveness of the external auditors;
w	 discussed and agreed the nature and the scope of work to be 
performed by the external auditors;
w	 reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
systems established by management and reviewed the Board’s 
sign-off procedure on the system of internal controls, which are 
set out in more detail below;
w	 	 reviewed the scope of the work of the internal audit function and 
the manner in which internal audit services will be provided in 
2009; 
w	 	 received and reviewed reports from the internal audit function 
on the work undertaken during the year;
w	 	 reviewed the policy on the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditors and assessed the independence of the 
auditors;
w	 	 reviewed the management procedures to enable the directors 
to provide the confirmation regarding audit information required 
under Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985; and
w	 	 reviewed the arrangements by which concerns can be raised by 
staff in respect of possible matters of financial impropriety or 
other matters.
Auditor Independence and Effectiveness
One of the key responsibilities of the Committee is to ensure that the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors is safeguarded. 
The Committee has adopted a policy on the provision of non-audit 
services that is in line with the Accounting Practice Board’s Ethical 
Standards. This policy is reviewed annually. It prohibits the external 
auditors from providing certain additional services to the Group 
such as bookkeeping, internal audit, valuations, actuarial services 
and financial systems design and implementation. The external 
auditors are, however, permitted to provide assurance services 
such as reporting accountant work and tax services.
The Group’s general policy is not to use the external auditors for 
acquisition and due diligence work. However, where the Group 
considers it appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers other than the 
preferred supplier may be asked to tender and this may include the 
external auditors.
In accordance with the policy, the Chairman of the Committee or, 
in his absence, another designated member of the Committee is 
required to pre-approve certain permitted services that exceed the 
financial limits set out in the policy. A summary of the overall level 
of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors is presented at each 
Audit Committee meeting.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors, Deloitte 
LLP, for non-audit services provided during the year are given in 
note 4 on page 66. The Audit Committee is satisfied that neither 
the non-audit services provided by, nor the level of fees paid to, 
Deloitte LLP in respect of those services impairs their objectivity 
or independence.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and risk management, and reviews its effectiveness 
on an annual basis. 
The implementation and maintenance of risk management is the 
responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management 
and a system has been established to identify, evaluate and manage 
the significant risks that the Group faces. The system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    43 
The main elements of the Group’s internal control system are as 
follows:
1.  The Board – The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control. As mentioned above in 
this report, the Board meets regularly and has a schedule of 
matters reserved for its approval and the Board Committees 
operate within delegated terms of reference. This structure 
includes the Audit Committee which, with the Chief Financial 
Officer, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and 
operating control environment of the Group. All acquisitions 
and disposals of companies or businesses are approved by the 
Board.
2.  Strategic and Business Planning – The Group and each business 
unit produce and agree a business plan each year against which 
the performance of the business is regularly monitored.
3.  Monthly Management Accounts – Detailed monthly management 
accounts are submitted to management that measure actual 
performance against budget. A monthly report is provided 
to the Board, highlighting key issues and summarising the 
detailed financial information provided by the operating units. 
Forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash are reviewed 
quarterly and presented to the Board.
4.  Internal Audit – PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as internal 
auditors undertake a programme of reviews aligned to the 
business risks. The Audit Committee receives a report from 
internal audit at each meeting that includes opinions on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of controls by site, a summary of 
key issues, work issues and follow up actions. The Internal 
Audit Manager has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal audit activities, including the scope of work, 
authority and resources of the internal audit function.
5.  System of Control Procedures and Delegated Authorities –  
There are clearly defined guidelines and approval limits for 
capital and operating expenditure and other key business 
transactions and decisions that have been approved by the 
Board. A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the 
Group’s senior management and their direct reports in relation 
to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee 
contracts and treasury matters.
6.  Treasury Policies and Procedures – Detailed procedures exist 
for the investments, currency and commodity hedging, granting 
of guarantees and the use of Treasury products.
7.  Risk Identification, Monitoring and Management Procedures – 
A process is in place to collate schedules of risks for each key 
site, which are then reviewed by the Divisional Presidents and 
consolidated into a schedule of the significant divisional level 
risks. Similarly, key functional heads produce risk schedules 
for their own areas. Risks identified cover business, financial, 
compliance, operational as well as environmental, social and 
governance risks. These risk schedules, which include an 
assessment of their likelihood and impact, are kept under 
review and are presented at least annually at a Fiberweb 
Executive Team meeting each year for review. The Fiberweb 
Executive Team is responsible for confirming that the plans 
to mitigate those risks are satisfactory and for improving 
internal controls and processes. The Chief Financial Officer is 
responsible for reporting the work of the Fiberweb Executive 
Team on risk management to the Board. 
8.  Organisational Structure – Structures are in place at Head 
Office and divisional level that clearly define responsibilities 
for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company 
secretarial and insurance functions.
9.  Group Finance Manual – The Group has adopted the 
policies that are appropriate and as such, it has a full set of 
accounting policies and procedures in force. During the year 
a comprehensive review of the policies was commenced and a 
revised and updated manual is expected to be issued in the first 
quarter of 2009. 
10.  Group Policies – A new Group Policy Manual was adopted 
in 2007 and communicated to all businesses. The policies 
are reviewed and revised as necessary to take account of 
changing law and circumstances. The review of compliance 
with a number of these policies by Group companies has been 
introduced and the results are communicated to the Fiberweb 
Executive Team and the Board as necessary. 
11.  Health, Safety and Environmental Manual (HS&E) – A Group 
Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details policies, 
standards and procedures that are applicable throughout the 
Group. Further information is included in the Business Review 
on pages 31 to 33. A monthly report is prepared and circulated 
to the Fiberweb Executive Team on environmental and safety 
matters and the Board receives a report on HS&E matters at 
each Board meeting.
 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group 
and that it has been in place for the period under review up to the 
date of approval of the annual report and accounts. The Group’s 
system is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the 
Turnbull guidance. Any significant failings or weaknesses that 
come to management’s and the Board’s attention are addressed 
and appropriate action taken. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Malcolm Coster and 
its other members are Daniel Dayan, Richard Stillwell and Peter 
Hickman. The Board considers this provides an appropriate balance 
of knowledge and experience. The Chairman will not participate in 
any discussion relating to the appointment of his successor.
The Committee has responsibility for identifying and nominating 
candidates for Board vacancies and making recommendations to 
the Board in relation to the appointment of the Company’s executive 
and non executive directors.
Before making an appointment, the Committee will evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, 
in light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment. Use will be made 
of external recruitment consultants and the final decision regarding 
appointment rests with the Board.
The Committee also has responsibility for reviewing and if 
appropriate authorising conflicts of interest or potential conflicts 
of interest of directors.
The Committee appointed external recruitment consultants to 
assist it in the recruitment of a director to replace Simon Bowles. 
One Nomination Committee meeting occurred during the year at 
which the appointment of Daniel Abrams as director and Chief 
Financial Officer was considered and recommended to the Board 
for approval. 44    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
CORPORATE GOvERNANCE
continued
Shareholder Relations
The Board as a whole is kept up to date on the views of Fiberweb’s 
major shareholders. This is achieved through regular meetings 
during the year between the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer and major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual 
interest that are reported to the Board. Broker reports are routinely 
circulated to the Board.
The Chairman met with major shareholders during the year. 
Formal invitations to meet both the Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director were extended to major shareholders.  
The Senior Independent Director was unable to attend the meeting 
subsequently arranged. Nevertheless the Board considers 
that its Senior Independent Director has an understanding and  
awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
The Senior Independent Director and the other non executive 
directors were available to meet shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting. 
Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the 
Annual General Meeting. The meeting provides an opportunity for 
shareholders to discuss with executive and non executive directors 
any issues concerning the Company and its activities. The Chairman 
of the Board and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees are available to answer questions at the 
meeting.
The Company was ranked first in the Leading Company for Investor 
Relations – UK Small Caps category of the 2008 Thomson Reuters 
Extel Survey.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the Annual 
General Meeting and makes available the proxy voting figures on 
each resolution. The voting results where resolutions are passed 
on a show of hands and details of all proxy votes cast prior to the 
meeting are available on the Company’s website. The results of the 
meeting are announced to the market via a Regulatory Information 
Service.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    45 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2008 
has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act 1985 and the applicable Listing Rules. A resolution 
to approve the Report will be proposed at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will also 
be approved. The vote will have an advisory status in respect of the 
remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will 
not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report are audited. 
Audited information is stated as such in the relevant section. 
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee members are independent non 
executive directors and the Committee Chairman is Richard Stillwell. 
Its other members are Peter Hickman and Brian Taylorson.
The Committee normally meets no less than three times a year 
and has delegated responsibility for determining and agreeing with 
the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration 
of all executive directors and other senior executives, and for 
determining, within the agreed terms of reference, specific 
remuneration packages for each of the executive directors including 
pension rights, any compensation payments and the operation of 
executive incentive schemes. No director is involved in decisions 
relating to his own remuneration. During the period under review, 
the Remuneration Committee met on five occasions. 
The Committee’s full terms of reference, which are available on the 
Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com, are reviewed annually 
and any proposed revisions referred to the Board for formal 
approval and adoption. 
The Committee is responsible for:
w	 	 making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy 
as applied to the Company’s executive directors and other senior 
management;
w	 determining total remuneration packages for the executive 
directors and other designated members of the executive 
management including base pay, performance-related bonus 
schemes, long-term incentives and other share awards;
w	 overseeing major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the Group;
w	 reviewing the design and operation of all share incentive plans 
for Board and shareholder approval, including approving grants 
of share awards to directors and senior managers; and
w	 reporting to the Board and external stakeholders on matters 
within its responsibilities.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, 
a remuneration consultancy, as external advisers. During the year 
New Bridge Street Consultants was acquired by Hewitt Associates 
Limited and now trades as Hewitt New Bridge Street (“HNBS”). 
HNBS has provided the Committee with advice in respect of certain 
aspects of main board and senior executive remuneration. HNBS 
provided no other services to the Company. However, Hewitt Bacon 
& Woodrow Limited, Hewitt’s actuarial practice, has provided 
actuarial and accounting assistance to the Company on its pension 
schemes. HNBS operates separately from the rest of Hewitt and 
there are provisions in place to ensure that there is no crossover 
of information between the two teams. The Committee identified no 
conflict in the nature of services provided by its advisers. 
The Committee also consults with the Chairman, who is not a 
member of the Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Head of HR and Change, save in respect of matters 
directly relating to their own remuneration.
Remuneration Policy
Fiberweb’s remuneration policy is that the remuneration of the 
Company’s executive directors and other senior management 
should be designed to attract and retain executives of high calibre 
so that the Company can be managed effectively to the benefit of 
its stakeholders. Remuneration levels for senior executives are 
set taking into account the remuneration practices found in other 
UK listed companies of similar size, geographical spread and 
complexity, the economic realities both generally and in relation 
to the Company’s own specific circumstances (in particular the 
current stage of the Company’s development and the international 
nature of its business operations), together with pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group. The Committee is conscious of the need 
to remain competitive in the different geographic areas in which 
the Company operates. In determining its remuneration policy, the 
Committee also takes account of UK corporate governance best 
practice and current market practice.
The policy is to pay base salaries and total remuneration around 
the median level for ‘on-plan’ performance, and to provide the 
opportunity, via bonuses and long-term incentive plans, for 
executives to be rewarded at the upper quartile for the delivery of 
outstanding levels of performance.
The Committee has discretion to directly reflect corporate 
performance on environmental, social and governance matters when 
setting the remuneration of executive directors but has chosen not 
to take these into specific account in setting performance targets 
for 2009 in the belief that the structures in place neither encourage 
nor reward inappropriate behaviour in this regard and that relevant 
operational controls relating to such matters are in place.
The Committee considers that the executive directors’ remuneration 
packages contain a suitable balance of fixed and variable 
performance related pay, and that the targets set for performance 
related pay are appropriate and demanding in the context of 
market practice, the Group’s trading environment and the current 
challenges that it faces. 
The main elements of the remuneration package for the executive 
directors and senior management are as follows:
w	 Base salary;
w	 Benefits in kind;
w	 Short-term cash based annual incentive plan;
w	 Long-term share based incentives; and
w	 Pension arrangements.
The various components of executive remuneration are discussed 
in further detail below.
Base Salary
Base salaries are reviewed in relation to median market data for 
comparable companies in terms of size, market sector, complexity 
and geographic spread. Reviews occur annually (effective from  
1 January each year) and are based on performance, assessment of 
personal objectives and any changes in responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the base salaries of the 
Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in December 2008 
and agreed increases of £10,000 effective from 1 January 2009 
and £15,000 effective from 1 February 2009 respectively. The 
revision in Daniel Dayan’s salary is the first since 2006 and as a 
consequence currently Daniel Dayan’s base salary is £370,000 per 
annum. Daniel Abrams’ base salary is now £215,000 per annum.  
The total salaries received by Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams for 
the year under review are shown in Table 1 on page 48.  46    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Sub-header Sub-header
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Service Contracts
Daniel Dayan’s service contract (dated 27 October 2006) will 
terminate automatically upon his reaching age 65, and provides for 
12 months’ notice by either party. Daniel Abrams was appointed 
a director (and Chief Financial Officer) on 1 February 2008.  
His service contract, which is dated 1 February 2008, will also 
terminate automatically upon his reaching age 65, and provides for 
12 months’ notice by either party.
In the event of early termination by the Company other than for 
cause, the Company may elect either to make a single payment 
in lieu of notice (which will include base salary, assessment of 
lost bonus opportunity and benefits, and to the extent prescribed 
by the relevant plan rules, share award entitlements) or to make 
that payment in three instalments. If the payment is made in 
instalments, the first instalment is payable on termination and 
will comprise six months’ payment in lieu of notice (calculated to 
include the remuneration elements described above). The second 
and third payments will comprise three months’ notice each.  
The second payment will be made six months after termination, 
with the third payment due nine months after termination and will 
be reduced to take into account the remuneration paid pursuant to 
any alternative employment obtained by the executive director prior 
to such payments becoming due. 
Simon Bowles whose service contract was dated 27 October 2006, 
resigned as a director and ceased employment on 31 January 2008. 
As was disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report, under the 
terms of his service contract, he was entitled to receive and was paid 
one year’s salary and benefits, which, to reflect best practice and the 
provisions of his service contract was phased in three instalments 
as described above, together with an additional payment of £32,490, 
principally representing outplacement assistance and transition 
costs, plus a contribution towards legal costs of £7,750. He waived 
any bonus entitlement earned under any of the Company’s schemes. 
The performance period for his awards under the Company’s Long 
Term Incentive Plan was, pursuant to the rules of that Plan, 
extended for six months from his termination date, at the expiry of 
which the relevant performance conditions were measured and at 
which point no awards vested.
Policy on External Directorships
The Board believes that the experience gained by executive directors 
through their involvement with other companies could be of benefit 
to the individual director and the Company. Executive directors 
are, with the Board’s permission, allowed to accept one such 
appointment, as long as there is no conflict of interest and the time 
commitment involved does not undermine the performance of their 
duties at the Company. The executive director may keep the fees 
from his external appointment. Neither of the executive directors 
has any such external directorship at present.
Benefits in Kind
Benefits in kind for the executive directors include private medical 
insurance, personal accident insurance, permanent health 
insurance and life assurance. The executive directors are not 
provided with company cars and do not receive a car allowance.
2009 Senior Management Bonus Scheme
The executive directors are eligible to participate in the Senior 
Management Bonus Scheme under which payments may be made 
based on the achievement of challenging financial targets. Appropriate 
financial targets are set by the Remuneration Committee at the 
beginning of the financial year for which the bonus is payable.
For 2009, the Bonus Scheme will provide an incentive opportunity of 
up to 100% of base salary for executive directors. The structure of 
the scheme will follow that put in place in 2008. 70% of the bonus 
opportunity is measured against the achievement of Group operating 
profit targets, with 30% based on Group working capital as a 
percentage of sales targets. A bonus of 55% of salary will be payable 
for achievement of budgeted working capital performance and a  
pre-determined operating profit performance in excess of budget 
(which, of themselves, constitute challenging targets). In order not to 
reward underachievement, there will be no payout for achievement 
of below budget performance. The Remuneration Committee has 
decided that as in 2008, for 2009 there will be no consideration of 
the working capital portion of the bonus until 85% (2008: 75%) of the 
operating profit target has been achieved.
Consistent with the policy adopted in 2008, bonus payments 
in 2009 will be made on a biannual basis. Up to 40% of bonus 
opportunity is based on performance in the first half of the year, 
with the remaining 60% based on performance in the second half 
of the year. To the extent that the performance measures are 
met, payments will normally be made for both first half year and 
second half year performance only after the publication of the full 
year results. This approach gives the Committee the opportunity 
to ensure that the total bonus payable for the year reflects the 
overall Group performance before any actual payment is made. 
The Committee is satisfied that given the particular circumstances 
of the Company this approach to bonus payments is appropriate 
and that there is no likelihood of this approach resulting in the 
aggregate size of bonuses payable in any year not reflecting overall 
Group performance for that year.
Individual personal objectives will not be used to determine bonus 
payments in 2009 in order to focus attention on the Board’s strategic 
objective to achieve a financial turnaround. Instead, as mentioned 
above, the achievement of pre-determined personal objectives in 
2009 will be used to assess and determine appropriate base salary 
reviews for the following year.
2008 Bonuses 
For 2008, the Bonus Scheme for executive directors was broadly as 
described above. Simon Bowles did not participate in the Scheme. 
Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams earned bonus in respect of both 
the Group operating profit and working capital targets for the first 
half year of 19.2% of salary and in the second half year of 42.6% of 
salary. Daniel Dayan’s bonus for the full year totalled £222,480 and 
Daniel Abram’s, £117,692. 
Executive Long-Term Incentives 
Deferred Share Matching Plan (“DSMP”)
Shareholders approved the DSMP in November 2006 at the time of 
the demerger of the Company from the BBA Group. Under the plan, 
a maximum of 50% of an executive’s net bonus may be voluntarily 
deferred into shares for three years. The deferred shares will 
then be matched at a rate of one to one (on a gross basis).  
The matching awards will vest three years after grant if and to the 
extent that the performance targets attached to the awards are 
satisfied. The detailed targets will be discussed and communicated 
to shareholders in advance of such awards being made. 
No matching awards have so far been made under the DSMP and it 
is not expected that awards will be made in the forthcoming year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
Shareholders also approved the LTIP in November 2006. In summary, 
under the LTIP, annual awards over shares with a face value of up to 
100% of salary per annum (200% in exceptional circumstances) can 
be made to executives each year which (in normal circumstances) 
vest three years after grant subject to the achievement of stretching 
performance conditions. 
Following the demerger in 2006, “normal” LTIP awards with a market 
value of up to 80% of salary were made to certain senior executives,      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    47 
including the executive directors. In addition, to reflect the fact 
that no long-term incentive award had been made to Fiberweb 
executives in 2006 under the former parent company’s share 
incentive plans due to the demerger process, a one-off “demerger” 
award was made to the same selected Fiberweb executives who 
received normal LTIP awards, plus an additional group of around 
70 senior managers. These additional demerger awards ranged 
from between 40% to 80% of salary and are subject to a two year 
performance period. 
Normal and demerger awards are subject to Total Shareholder 
Return (“TSR”) and earnings per share (“EPS”) targets. More 
particularly, in the case of the 2006 normal and demerger awards 
one half of each award is based on Fiberweb’s TSR performance 
against the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding 
investment trusts). The FTSE SmallCap was chosen for the TSR 
element of the awards in the absence of a sufficient number of 
listed companies that are direct business competitors to Fiberweb. 
The remaining half of each award is subject to a sliding scale of 
real EPS growth targets. The EPS targets for both the 2006 normal 
and demerger awards measure EPS for the financial year ended  
31 December 2006 against EPS for the year ending 31 December 
2008 (the demerger awards) or 2009 (the normal awards).  
The base EPS for 2006, which has been adjusted to reflect ongoing 
capital, debt, taxation and listed company structure as if Fiberweb 
had existed as an independent group since 1 January 2006, is  
4.47 pence. The primary purpose of the adjustments to the base EPS 
is to give comparability over the performance period. 
No awards were granted in 2007. In May 2008 normal awards 
were granted to a small number of senior managers, including the 
executive directors, in a range between 40% and 100% of salary. 
The TSR target is based on absolute total shareholder return,  
as the Committee considered that this was more appropriate in the 
circumstances and provided greater alignment with shareholder 
interests than a relative measure of performance. The EPS target 
measures EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 
against EPS for the year ending 31 December 2010.
These performance conditions were chosen to provide a balanced 
long-term incentive for senior executives to generate both above 
market returns to shareholders and strong levels of earnings per 
share growth.
These awards vest as per the table below.
Sliding scale straight line vesting occurs for performance between 
the relevant threshold and maximum targets.
Neither awards (nor DSMP awards when granted) will have a 
‘re-testing’ facility. If the performance conditions are not met at the 
end of the relevant performance period, the awards will lapse.
The relevant TSR calculations will be undertaken by independent 
advisors. The Company’s external auditors will verify the  
Committee’s calculation of the extent to which the EPS targets have 
been met.
Normal awards will vest no earlier than three years after grant, 
subject to the achievement of the performance conditions 
described above. The vesting date for the demerger awards follows 
the announcement of Fiberweb’s results for the year ending  
31 December 2008. The performance conditions for the demerger 
awards were not been met and no awards vested.
The Committee’s current intention is that any LTIP awards made 
in the future will be subject to a combination of TSR and EPS 
  Proportion of award  
  subject to relevant  
 Performance condition performance condition  How award vests
   2006 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant *, with full vesting at upper quartile.
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full vesting for RPI 
plus 35% †.
   2006 Demerger LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) over a two year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant *, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over the two year performance period of RPI plus 30%, with full vesting for RPI 
plus 50% (thereby reflecting the more pronounced EPS growth expected in the 
first two years post-demerger) †.
   2008 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests if the Company’s absolute TSR (defined 
as the Company’s average share price over the last 90 days of the performance 
period, adjusted to reflect capital adjustments and the value of dividends declared 
over the performance period) is £0.80 with full vesting at £1.50
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full vesting for RPI 
plus 35%
 *  Fiberweb’s “base” TSR is calculated over the first 30 days post-demerger.
 †  “base year” EPS for these purposes is Fiberweb’s adjusted EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 as described above.
  Proportion of award  
  subject to relevant  
Performance condition performance condition  How award vests
      2006 Normal LTIP Award 2006 Normal LTIP Award
Total Shareholder Return 50% 30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant *, with full vesting at upper quartile.
Earnings Per Share 50% 30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full vesting for RPI 
plus 35% †.
      2006 Demerger LTIP Award 2006 Demerger LTIP Award
Total Shareholder Return 50% 30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) over a two year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant *, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
Earnings Per Share 50% 30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over the two year performance period of RPI plus 30%, with full vesting for RPI 
plus 50% (thereby reflecting the more pronounced EPS growth expected in the 
first two years post-demerger) †.
      2008 Normal LTIP Award 2008 Normal LTIP Award
Total Shareholder Return 50% 30% of this portion of the award vests if the Company’s absolute TSR (defined 
as the Company’s average share price over the last 90 days of the performance 
period, adjusted to reflect capital adjustments and the value of dividends declared 
over the performance period) is £0.80 with full vesting at £1.50
Earnings Per Share 50% 30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full vesting for RPI 
plus 35%
*  Fiberweb’s “base” TSR is calculated over the first 30 days post-demerger.
† “base year” EPS for these purposes is Fiberweb’s adjusted EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 as described above. 48    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
Sub-header
based performance conditions structured in a similar manner as 
described above. The performance targets for any such awards 
will be set by the Committee taking into account the outlook for the 
Company at that time.
The Committee will regularly review the operation of the Company’s 
share based incentive arrangements in light of (i) the circumstances 
and prospects of the Company as they develop and (ii) emerging 
trends in market and best practice.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP are 
set out in Table 3 on page 49.
Fiberweb Executive Share Option Plan (“ESOP”)
The Company established the ESOP following shareholder approval 
in November 2006. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
administering the ESOP and the grant of options under its terms. 
Under the ESOP, the normal maximum grant limit will be 150% of 
salary per annum (200% in exceptional circumstances).
Options will vest after three years, subject to the achievement of 
performance conditions that are deemed appropriate at the time of 
grant and that will be communicated to shareholders before grants 
are made. It is not currently intended that grants will be made 
under the ESOP and no grants were made during the year.
Performance Graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured 
by Total Shareholder Return from the date of listing until  
31 December 2008, compared with the equivalent information for 
the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts).
This index has been selected because it is a broad-based equity 
market index of which the Company was a constituent until 
December 2007 and to which it aspires to return.
Pensions
The Company makes a pension contribution at a rate of 25% of 
salary to Mr Dayan which is invested in a defined contribution 
scheme nominated by him. Mr Abrams also received a pension 
contribution at the rate of 15% of salary which was invested in a 
defined contribution scheme nominated by him. For the period to 
31 January 2008 when his employment ceased Mr Bowles also 
received a pension contribution at a rate of 20% of salary which 
was invested in a defined contribution scheme nominated by him. 
These contributions are within a competitive range and are set by 
reference to the relevant market practice for each role. In addition, 
each director fulfilled a contractual obligation to contribute at least 
7.5% of their salary to the Company defined contribution scheme. 
Details of Company pension contributions made in respect of the 
directors during the year under review are set out in Table 1.
Sub-header
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
 Table 1 Emoluments and fees (audited) 
 For the year ended 31 December 2008 
  Base salary Benefits Pension Annual Compensation Total Total 
  and fees in kind Contributions  Bonus – loss of 2008 2007 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 office £’000 £’000
 Directors  Note 1    
 M Coster                 110                 18                 –               –                    –        128      159 
 D Dayan         360          2         90       222          –       674      517 
 D Abrams         184          3         31       118          –       336        –  
 S Bowles          19          –           4        –          312      335      299 
 R Stillwell           38          –           –         –           –        38       38 
 P Hickman          38          –           –         –           –        38       38 
 B Taylorson          32          –           –         –           –        32       32 
 Total          781          23        125      340         312     1,581     1,083
 
Notes:
1.  Benefits in kind for Malcolm Coster comprise the value of shares received under his fee enhancement. Those for Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams include 
private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance. 
2.  Simon Bowles resigned on 31 January 2008. Emoluments paid to Mr Simon Bowles include £312,040 compensation for loss of office. Under the terms of 
his termination agreement he was entitled to salary of £226,800, transitional payment of £32,490, pension contribution £45,000 and legal fees £7,750.
3. Daniel Abrams was appointed a director (and Chief Financial Officer) on 1 February 2008.
140
17-Nov-06
Value (£)
Source: Thomson Financial
Fiberweb plc FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) Index 
31-Dec-06 31-Dec-08 31-Dec-07
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2008, of £100 invested 
in Fiberweb plc on 17 November 2006 compared with the value of £100 
invested in the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) Index. The 
other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Total shareholder return     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    49 
 Table 3 
   Awards at the Award Exercise Release 31 December 
   start of the year Date Price Date 2008
 D Dayan Demerger Award 155,634 27.11.06 Nil-cost After the publication of results for  155,634 
      the year ending 31 December 2008 
  Normal Award 155,634 27.11.06 Nil-cost After the publication of results for 155,634 
      the year ending 31 December 2009
  Normal Award – 12.05.08    Nil-cost The third anniversary of 857,143 
      the date of grant
   311,268    1,168,411
 D Abrams  Normal Award          – 12.05.08    Nil-cost The third anniversary of 476,190 
      the date of grant
   –    476,190
 S Bowles Demerger Award 86,463 27.11.06 Nil-cost Lapsed nil
  Normal Award 86,463 27.11.06 Nil-cost Lapsed nil
   172,926    nil
 Notes:
 1.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary 5p share on 27 November 2006 was 188.75p. The average middle market quotation for the five day period 
immediately preceding the date of the 2006 awards was 185.05p. In accordance with the Plan rules, this was the price used to determine the number of 
nil-cost awards made to executive directors on 27 November 2006.
 2.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share on 12 May 2008 was 45p. The average middle market quotation for the five day period immediately 
preceding the date of the 2008 awards was 41.75p. In accordance with the Plan rules the price used to determine the number of nil-cost awards made to 
the executive directors on 12 May 2008 was 42p.
 3.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary 5p share on 31 December 2008 was 24.5p (2007: 37p). In the period from 2 January 2008 to 31 December 
2008 the highest and lowest prices for Fiberweb shares were 78p (2007: 226.75p) and 23.25p (2007: 32.5p) respectively.
 4. Details of the performance conditions applying to these awards are set out on page 47.
Awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) – (audited)
 Table 2
  Ordinary 5p shares
 Director At 31 December 2008 1 January 2008
 M Coster  364,694 336,078
 D Dayan 1,528,676 200,421
 D Abrams 234,979 –
 R Stillwell 127,500 27,500
 P Hickman 23,255 –
 B Taylorson 6,000 6,000
 Notes:
 1. There were no changes in directors’ interests in the share capital between 31 December 2008 and 24 February 2009.
 2. The shareholding of Malcolm Coster at 31 December 2008 includes 52,032 shares paid to him under his fee enhancement.
 3. The number of Fiberweb ordinary shares held in the Fiberweb Employee Benefit Trust as at 31 December 2008 is 1,217 shares.
Directors’ shareholdings
The interests (beneficial and family interests) of the directors in office at 31 December 2008 in the ordinary share capital of the Company 
were as follows: 50    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
HEADER HEADER HEADER DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Non Executive Directors’ Remuneration
The appointment of each of the non executive directors is for a 
fixed term of three years. The current letters of appointment for 
all the non executive directors, dated 19 October 2006 and effective 
from the date of the demerger, are available for inspection on 
request. The non executive directors do not participate in any 
Company pension arrangements or incentive plans. Appointments 
can be terminated by either party on three months’ notice or 
compensation, and six months’ notice or compensation in the case 
of the Chairman.
The level of fees for the non executive directors is determined by 
the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Chairman and 
the executive directors. The Chairman’s fees are determined by 
the Board on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer. 
Fees are in line with current market practice of comparable 
organisations and are set taking account of the time commitment 
and responsibility of each non executive director. The base annual 
fee is £32,000. The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees each receive an annual supplement of £6,000 in 
recognition of the increased commitment placed upon them in 
performing their roles. Richard Stillwell does not receive an 
additional supplement for his role as Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman’s base cash fee is £110,000 per annum.  
At appointment, and as described in the shareholder documentation 
produced in connection with the demerger, he agreed to invest up 
to £250,000 in the acquisition of the Company’s shares on the 
open market within 30 days of the date of the demerger. His fee 
structure allows him to receive a fee enhancement in the form 
of ordinary shares equal to one sixth of the shares he acquired.  
The fee enhancement is paid to him at each six month anniversary 
of his appointment until November 2009, provided he continues to 
hold office as Chairman and retains his original investment and any 
additional shares awarded to him (apart from those sold to fund 
any tax or national insurance liabilities arising on the award). Mr 
Coster acquired 132,285 shares in December 2006. Mr Coster has 
received four fee enhancements, each of 22,047 shares, paid to him 
in each of May and November 2007 and 2008. The gross value of 
these (based on the value of Fiberweb shares current at the time) 
is £66,846 in total. After deduction of sufficient shares to fund tax 
and national insurance liabilities, he received 13,008 shares under 
each award.
The Committee believes that this structure is entirely appropriate 
and takes full account of the Chairman’s expected time commitment, 
responsibility and importance to the Company in this important 
stage in the Company’s development. 
Non executive directors’ fees have not been reviewed since 
appointment.
Details of non executive directors’ fees for 2008 are set out in Table 
1 on page 48 above. 
This report was approved by the Board on 24 February 2009 and is 
signed on its behalf by:
 
Richard Stillwell
Chairman, Remuneration Committee     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    51 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, 
directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. The directors are required by the IAS 
Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted 
by the European Union. The Group financial statements are also 
required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial 
statements present fairly for each financial year the company’s 
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This 
requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set 
out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework 
for the preparation and presentation of financial statements’. In 
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable IFRSs. However, directors are also 
required to:
w	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
w	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and 
w	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
and applicable law). The parent company financial statements are 
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the company. In preparing these financial statements, the directors 
are required to:
w	 	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
w	 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
w	 	 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements;
w	 	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent 
company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
w	 	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and 
w	 	 the Directors’ Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief 
Executive’s Review and the Business Review, including the 
Financial Review, include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties they face.  52    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
HEADER HEADER HEADER INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF FIBERwEB PLC
We have audited the group financial statements of Fiberweb plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group 
Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash 
Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income 
and Expense and the related notes 1 to 36. These group financial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set 
out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are 
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial 
statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
whether the part of the directors’ remuneration report described 
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our 
opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent 
with the group financial statements. The information given in the 
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in 
the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the 
Business Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received 
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and 
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required 
to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover 
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control 
procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 
as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited group financial statements. We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial 
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further 
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group 
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the group financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
w	 the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the 
state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its 
loss for the year then ended;
w	  the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; 
w	 the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as 
having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985; and
w	  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs
As explained in Note 2 to the group financial statements, the group 
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with 
the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board.
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the group’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, England
24 February 2009 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2008
    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    53 
  2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 
  Underlying* Note i Total Underlying* Note i Total 
 Note £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
revenue 3 512.8 – 512.8 473.6 – 473.6
Cost of sales 4, 5 (415.6) (20.2) (435.8) (380.9) (31.8) (412.7)
Gross profit  97.2 (20.2) 77.0 92.7 (31.8) 60.9
Distribution costs  (42.2) – (42.2) (44.0) – (44.0)
Administrative expenses  (37.9) (0.6) (38.5) (37.3) (46.7) (84.0)
Other operating income 4 1.5 – 1.5 2.2 – 2.2
Share of results of associates 15 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Profit on disposal of
associated undertaking 5 – – – – 0.3 0.3 
Profit on disposal of investment 5, 33 – 3.0 3.0 – – –
Profit on disposal of businesses 5, 33 – 6.6 6.6 – – –
Restructuring costs 5 – (23.0) (23.0) – (24.9) (24.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 
from continuing operations 3, 4 18.8 (34.2) (15.4) 13.8 (103.1) (89.3)
Investment income 7 0.9 – 0.9 0.8 – 0.8
Other gains and losses 6, 33 0.8 – 0.8 – – –
Finance costs 7 (11.5) – (11.5) (11.6) – (11.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax  9.0 (34.2) (25.2) 3.0 (103.1) (100.1)
Income tax on operations 8 (2.9) 3.2 0.3 0.1 6.6 6.7 
Recognition of deferred tax 8 2.9 – 2.9 – – –
Tax 8 – 3.2 3.2 0.1 6.6 6.7
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations  9.0 (31.0) (22.0) 3.1 (96.5) (93.4)
Profit/(loss) for the year 
from discontinued operations 9 – – – 0.2 (19.3) (19.1)
Profit/(loss)for the year  9.0 (31.0) (22.0) 3.3 (115.8) (112.5)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent  9.0 (31.0) (22.0) 3.3 (115.8) (112.5)
*Underlying trading results before items described in note i below
Note i: Restructuring costs and non-recurring items as set out in note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Loss per share, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent
From continuing operations:
Basic 11   (18.0)p   (76.3)p
Diluted 11   (18.0)p   (76.3)p
From continuing and 
discontinued operations:
Basic 11   (18.0)p   (91.9)p
Diluted 11   (18.0)p   (91.9)p
Adjusted earnings
(1)
 per share, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent
From continuing operations:
Basic 11   7.4p   2.6p
Diluted 11   7.3p   2.6p
(1)  
Adjusted earnings per share are shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and non-recurring items because the directors 
consider this gives a better indication of underlying performance. Before recognition of deferred tax assets at £2.9 million (2007: £nil), adjusted 
earnings per share are 5.0p (2007: 2.6p). CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2008
54    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
      2008 2007 
     Note £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets:
Goodwill     13 37.4 28.0
Other     13 1.2 2.5
Property, plant and equipment     14 304.7 266.4
Investments in associates     15 2.2 1.5
Other investments     16 0.3 0.8
Deferred tax assets     26 8.9 0.5
      354.7 299.7
Current assets
Inventories     17 66.8 62.7
Trade and other receivables     18 97.2 92.1
Cash and cash equivalents     18 26.4 17.1
Corporation tax recoverable      0.7 1.4
      191.1 173.3
TOTAL ASSeTS      545.8 473.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables     19 (96.2) (76.9)
Tax liabilities      (7.4) (3.3)
Obligations under finance leases     20 (2.8) (2.3)
Bank overdrafts and loans     22 (10.5) (18.1)
Provisions     24 (9.1) (4.2)
      (126.0) (104.8)
Net current assets      65.1 68.5
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans     22 (163.0) (131.9)
Retirement benefit obligations     25 (35.5) (21.8)
Obligations under finance leases     20 – (2.4)
Deferred tax liabilities     26 (21.9) (24.3)
Provisions     24 (2.8) (2.5)
      (223.2) (182.9)
TOTAL LiAbiLiTieS      (349.2) (287.7)
NeT ASSeTS      196.6 185.3
equity
Share capital     28 6.1 6.1
Share premium account     29 84.5 84.5
Merger reserve     29 93.5 93.5
Other reserve     29 93.1 93.1
Capital reserve     29 0.3 0.6
Translation reserve     29 54.7 8.1
Hedging reserve     29 (6.5) (1.5)
Retained earnings     29 (129.7) (99.1)
 equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    31 196.0 185.3
Minority interest     30 0.6 –
TOTAL eQUiTY      196.6 185.3
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by
D Dayan   D Abrams
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOw STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2008
    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    55 
      2008 2007 
     Note £’m £’m
Operating activities
Net cash flows from operating activities     32 55.9 36.9
investing activities
Interest received      0.9 0.8
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (33.3) (32.4)
Purchase of intangible assets      (0.3) (0.2)
 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment     0.2 0.6
Net proceeds on disposal of businesses     33 17.2 42.0
Cash received from minority interest     30 0.1 –
 Dividends received from associated undertakings     0.1 0.1
Dividends received from investments     33 0.8 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities     (14.3) 10.9
Financing activities
Interest paid      (10.3) (11.1)
Interest element of finance leases paid      (0.2) (0.1)
Dividends paid to related parties      (0.5) –
Dividends paid to shareholders      (5.1) (7.0)
Cash received from foreign exchange forward contracts carried at fair value through profit or loss  1.6 -
Repayment of external loans      (17.4) (54.1)
 Overdrafts reclassified to cash and cash equivalents     – (0.6)
Decrease in finance leases      (2.7) (2.4)
Net cash outflow from financing activities      (34.6) (75.3)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     7.0 (27.5)
Foreign exchange differences      5.2 0.5
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January      8.2 35.2
 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December    18 20.4 8.2
Net debt at beginning of year      (137.6) (165.3)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     7.0 (27.5)
Decrease in external loans      17.4 54.1
Bank loans disposed of     33 – 2.9
Facility fees amortised      (0.3) (0.2)
Decrease in finance leases       2.7 2.4
 Overdrafts reclassified to cash and cash equivalents     – 0.6
Foreign exchange differences      (39.1) (4.6)
Net debt at end of year      (149.9) (137.6)
Comprising:
Bank loans      (168.1) (142.0)
Less: unamortised prepaid facility fees      0.6 0.9
Bank overdrafts and loans     22 (167.5) (141.1)
Finance leases     20 (2.8) (4.7)
 Cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts)    18 20.4 8.2
Net debt at end of year      (149.9) (137.6) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED 
INCOME AND ExPENSE For the year ended 31 December 2008
56    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
      2008 2007 
     Note £’m £’m
Exchange gains on translation of foreign operations    29 52.7 9.4
Loss on interest rate cash flow hedges     29 (5.3) (1.7)
 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes    25, 29 (5.9) (0.7)
Tax on items recognised directly in equity     29 2.3 0.6
Net income recognised directly in equity      43.8 7.6
Transferred to profit or loss on interest rate cash flow hedges   7, 29 0.3 (0.3) 
Transferred to profit or loss on disposal of businesses    29 (6.1) –
Loss for the year      (22.0) (112.5)
Total recognised income/(expense) for the year    31 16.0 (105.2) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008
    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    57 
1. General information
Fiberweb plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom on  
22 January 2006 under the Companies Act 1985. The Fiberweb Group 
(“Fiberweb” or “the Group”) is an international Group of businesses 
dedicated to the development, manufacturing and supply of specialist 
nonwoven fabrics.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because 
that is the currency of the ultimate parent company. Foreign 
operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in 
note 2.
2. Accounting Policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on an historical 
cost basis, adjusted for certain derivative financial instruments 
which are stated at fair value. 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Policies (“UK GAAP”).
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
going concern basis as explained in the Directors’ Report on page 
38.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”). The financial statements have also been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and 
therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of 
the EU IAS Regulation. 
In the current year, two interpretations issued by the International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for 
the current period. These are: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and 
Treasury Share Transactions and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a 
Defined Benefit Asset, minimum Funding requirements and their 
Interaction. The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any 
changes in the Group’s accounting policies. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been 
applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet 
effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 1 (amended)/IAS 27 (amended): Cost of an investment in a 
Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate
IFRS 3 (revised 2008): Business Combinations
IFRS 8: Operating Segments
IAS 1 (revised 2007): Presentation of Financial Statements 
IAS 27 (revised 2008): Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements 
IAS 32 (amended)/IAS 1 (amended): Puttable Financial 
Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 (amended): Financial Instruments
IFRIC 13: Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 15: Agreements for Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16: Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 
IFRIC 17: Distribution of Non-cash Assets.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and 
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 
financial statements of the Group except for:
i.  additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect 
for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009;
ii.  treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 comes into 
effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date 
is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning 
on or after 1 July 2009. 
The principal accounting policies used in the preparation of these 
financial statements are detailed below. These accounting policies, 
presentation and methods of computation have been consistently 
applied to all periods presented, but note the change in segmental 
information described below.
Segmental information
Historically, the Group’s primary segments were geographic on 
the basis of the underlying operational management structure and 
reporting hierarchy. In line with the reorganisation of the Group 
implemented during the year and described more fully in the 
Chairman’s Statement on page 6, and in anticipation of the impact 
of IFRS 8: Operating Segments, which will be effective for the year 
ended 31 December 2009, the Group’s primary segments going 
forward will be Hygiene and Industrial. The segmental information 
in note 3 has been presented accordingly, including the restatement 
of the 2007 comparatives. 
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Fiberweb. Control exists when 
Fiberweb has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity to obtain economic benefit from 
its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included 
in the Group’s financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases in accordance with the 
acquisition method of accounting. Where necessary, adjustments 
are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than 
subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise 
a significant influence, typically through the participation in the 
financial and operating decisions of the investee. Investments in 
associated undertakings are stated at cost, plus the Group’s share 
of post-acquisition reserves, less dividends received and provision 
for impairment.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase 
method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, 
liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by 
the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs 
directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the 
conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair 
value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and 
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, 
the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially 
measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.  58    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
2. Accounting Policies continued
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of fair value of the 
consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired, 
is capitalised and tested for impairment on an annual basis, or 
more frequently when there is an indication that there may be an 
impairment. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the combination. If the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce 
the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then 
to the other assets of the unit. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the 
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of 
the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs 
has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being 
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable. Group revenue represents amounts receivable for 
goods supplied by the Group in the normal course of business, 
net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes and excluding 
intercompany transactions and sales by associated undertakings. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Research and development expenditure 
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in 
which it is incurred. An internally-generated intangible asset 
arising from the Group’s development expenditure is recognised 
only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable that the 
asset will generate future economic benefits and the development 
costs of the asset can be measured reliably.  
Share-based payments 
Fiberweb operates three share-based compensation plans which 
are detailed in note 27. The equity-settled share-based payments 
under these schemes are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on 
a straight line basis over the vesting period based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
No expense is recognised (and any previously recognised expense 
is reversed) for awards that do not ultimately vest, except where 
vesting is conditional upon a measure linked to Fiberweb plc’s 
share price (“a market condition”) or other market conditions. The 
likelihood of achieving the market condition is taken into account 
in the fair value and, therefore, the award is treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, 
provided that any other performance condition is met.
When an award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the 
date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cost of share-based compensation schemes is recognised as an 
expense within staff costs in the income statement (see note 12). 
Leases 
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights 
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as if 
they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are shown 
as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values of the assets 
are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the 
periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned. 
The capital elements of future leases are recorded as liabilities, 
while the interest elements are charged to the income statement 
over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge 
on the balance of capital payments outstanding. 
For all other leases (operating leases), the rental payments are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the 
lives of the leases.
Post-retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are 
charged as an expense as they fall due. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is 
determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out annually on 31 December. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they 
occur. They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in 
the statement of recognised income and expense. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a 
straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become 
vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced by 
the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value 
of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the 
plan. 
Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined 
by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries. In 
certain overseas subsidiaries, to comply with local legislation 
and to obtain taxation advantages, provision is made for the total 
actuarial liability less the current surrender value of the supporting 
investment. 
Treasury 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling 
at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing 
at that date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange 
rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the 
income statement. Where monetary assets and liabilities have 
been designated effective hedges against net investments in foreign 
operations, the exchange gains and losses arising on those assets 
and liabilities are taken directly to reserves.
The income statements of overseas operations are translated 
into Sterling at the average exchange rates for the year and their 
balance sheets are translated into Sterling at the exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences arising on 
consolidation are taken to reserves, subject to the requirements of 
IAS 21 “The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates”. All other 
translation differences are taken to the income statement. 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise 
foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity 
derivatives. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    59 
2. Accounting Policies continued
Treasury continued
to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group 
in line with the Group’s risk management policies. The Group 
designates these derivatives as either hedges of highly probable 
forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm 
commitments (cash flow hedges) or hedges of investments in 
foreign operations. 
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at 
fair value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments 
depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and 
the type of exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred 
in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in the 
same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item. 
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, 
the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred 
from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of 
the asset or liability. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the 
hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains 
in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is 
ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was 
deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted 
for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
Gains or losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve 
are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. 
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and 
after the share of results of associates but before investment 
income and finance costs (see note 4).
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and 
takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases in 
the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. 
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted 
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where 
the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference 
is not foreseeable. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except 
when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance sheet at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment. 
Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of property, plant 
and equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on 
a straight line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the 
assets:
Land  not depreciated
Buildings  40 years maximum
Plant and machinery (including essential    
commissioning costs) 3–15 years
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised 
within Plant and Machinery. 
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction 
of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as 
part of those assets. The commencement of capitalisation begins 
when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being 
incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for 
use are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all 
the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are 
complete. 
Intangible assets excluding goodwill 
Licenses are shown at amortised cost. Amortisation provided on the 
cost of licenses is calculated on a straight line basis over the useful 
life of the licenses. 
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of 
computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset. 
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred 
to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Amortisation is 
provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a straight line 
basis over the useful life of the software. 
The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible 
assets arising on acquisitions. An intangible asset will be recognised 
as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or 
other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably. 
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset, excluding 
goodwill, and is calculated on a straight line basis over its useful 
life.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value 
of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is 
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. 
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset  
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment  
loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are 
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.  
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested for impairment 
annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may  
be impaired.  60    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
2. Accounting Policies continued
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates 
of future cash flows have not been adjusted. If the recoverable 
amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be 
less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.  
An impairment loss is recognised immediately, unless the relevant 
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment 
loss is treated as a revaluation decrease. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised 
for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years. A reversal of 
an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless 
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case 
the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation 
increase. 
Inventory
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion 
of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished 
goods. Cost is calculated on a first in first out basis. Provision is 
made for slow moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Financial assets
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where 
the purchase or sale of an investment is under contract whose 
terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe 
established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at 
fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets 
classified as at fair value through profit and loss, which are initially 
measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: 
financial assets ‘at fair value through profit and loss’ (FVTPL), 
‘held to maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial 
assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on 
the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined 
at the time of initial recognition. As at 31 December 2008 and 2007, 
the Group did not have any ‘held-to-maturity’ investments or AFS 
financial assets. The Group does not enter into hedge transactions 
for speculative purposes.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial 
asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:
w	 it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the 
near future; or 
w	 it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that 
the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or
w	 it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging 
instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be 
designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
w	 such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise 
arise; or
w	 the financial asset forms part of a Group of financial assets or 
financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance 
is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s 
documented risk management or investment strategy, and 
information about the Group is provided internally on that basis; 
or
w	 it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or 
liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant 
gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss 
recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest 
earned on the financial asset. 
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market 
are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the 
effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the 
recognition of interest would be immaterial
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    61 
2. Accounting Policies continued
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An 
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities  
‘at FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial 
liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if:
w	 it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the 
near future; or
w	 it is part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that 
the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or
w	 it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging 
instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading 
may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
w	 such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise 
arise; or
w	 the financial liability forms part of a Group of financial assets or 
financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance 
is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s 
documented risk management or investment strategy, and 
information about the Group is provided internally on that basis; 
or
w	 it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or 
liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or 
loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on 
the financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially 
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis. The effective interest method is a method 
of calculating the amortised costs of a financial liability and of 
allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective 
interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, 
where appropriate, a shorter period. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the 
profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty 
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources 
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
discussed below. 
The judgements used by management in the application of the 
Group’s accounting policies in respect of these key areas of 
estimation are considered to be the most significant. 
Impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets 
Determining whether goodwill or tangible fixed assets are impaired 
requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating 
units to which the goodwill has been allocated or the individual 
assets. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate 
future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit 
or asset and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present 
value. The carrying amount of goodwill and tangible fixed assets at 
the balance sheet date was £37.4 million (2007: £28.0 million) and 
£304.7 million (2007: £266.4 million) respectively. 
Details regarding the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying 
value and assumptions used in carrying out the impairment reviews 
are provided in notes 13 and 14. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
Determining the present value of future obligations of pension and 
other post-retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation of 
future mortality rates, future changes in employee benefits and 
length of service. These assumptions are determined in association 
with qualified actuaries. The net pension liability related to defined 
benefit type schemes at the balance sheet date was £35.5 million 
(2007: £21.8 million). Details regarding the carrying value and 
assumptions used in arriving at the carrying value are provided in 
note 25.  62    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
3. Segmental information
Historically, the Group’s primary segments were geographic on the basis of the underlying operational management structure and reporting 
hierarchy. In line with the reorganisation of the Group implemented during the year and described more fully in the Chairman’s Statement on 
page 6, and in anticipation of the impact of IFRS 8: Operating Segments, which will be effective for the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group’s 
primary segments going forward will be Hygiene and Industrial. The following segmental information has been presented accordingly, including 
the restatement of the 2007 comparatives. All segments include operations consisting of the manufacture and sale of nonwoven materials. 
In the following analysis, inter-segment sales represent goods sold at arm’s length transfer prices between Group entities. Global Research 
& Development and Health & Safety costs have been allocated to Group entities on the basis of their share of the Group’s continuing external 
revenue. Central head office costs are not allocated to Group entities for the purpose of the segmental analysis and central costs of £5.3 million 
(2007: £7.1 million) are shown below as Unallocated Corporate within the Business Segment analysis and within Europe in the Geographical 
Segment analysis.
Primary segments: markets
Year ended 31 December 2008
      Unallocated 
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin    318.5 194.3 – 512.8
Inter-segment sales    3.4 9.4 (12.8) –
Underlying operating profit    13.6 10.5 (5.3) 18.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items   (39.7) 6.2 (0.7) (34.2)
Segment result from continuing operations *   (26.1) 16.7 (6.0) (15.4)
Investment income       0.9
Other gains and losses       0.8
Finance costs       (11.5)
Loss before tax       (25.2)
Tax       3.2
Loss after tax       (22.0)
* Segment result includes £0.2 million profit of associates within Hygiene.
Other information
      Unallocated 
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total 
   Note £’m £’m £’m £’m
Underlying operating profit margin %    4.3% 5.4% – 3.7%
Capital additions    31.4 3.2 – 34.6 
Depreciation and amortisation    23.2 7.7 0.2 31.1 
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss  14 14.2 – – 14.2
Asset write-downs recognised in profit or loss  14 19.6 0.1 – 19.7
balance Sheet   
Assets:       
Segment assets, excluding corporation tax recoverable   363.5 143.0 1.1 507.6
Interests in associates    2.2 – – 2.2
Consolidated total assets, excluding tax assets and cash   365.7 143.0 1.1 509.8
Unallocated corporate assets       36.0
Total consolidated assets       545.8
 
Liabilities:       
Segment liabilities, excluding tax liabilities and debt   87.3 44.0 12.3 143.6
Unallocated corporate liabilities       205.6
Consolidated total liabilities       349.2
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    63 
3. Segmental information continued
Primary segments: markets continued
Year ended 31 December 2007
      Unallocated 
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin    272.4 201.2 – 473.6
Inter-segment sales    6.8 12.4 (19.2) –
Underlying operating profit    10.1 10.8 (7.1) 13.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items   (58.7) (43.4) (1.0) (103.1)
Segment result from continuing operations *   (48.6) (32.6) (8.1) (89.3)
Investment income       0.8
Finance costs       (11.6)
Loss before tax       (100.1)
Tax       6.7
Loss for the year from discontinued operations      (19.1)
Loss after tax and discontinued operations      (112.5)
*Segment result includes £0.2 million profit of associates within Hygiene.
Other information
      Unallocated 
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total 
   Note £’m £’m £’m £’m
Underlying operating profit margin %    3.7% 5.4% – 2.9%
Capital additions    23.9 8.4 0.2 32.5
Depreciation and amortisation    23.8 7.9 0.1 31.8
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss  14 3.0 1.8 – 4.8
Asset write-downs recognised in profit or loss  14 22.0 16.7 – 38.7
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations had the following effect on the segment results of Hygiene and Industrial, analysed into continuing and discontinued 
components.
   Hygiene   Industrial 
  Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
revenue       
External sales by origin  272.4 31.5 303.9 201.2 – 201.2
result       
Underlying operating profit  10.1 0.3 10.4 10.8 – 10.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items (58.7) (20.9) (79.6) (43.4) – (43.4)
Segment result  (48.6) (20.6) (69.2) (32.6) – (32.6)
 
There were no discontinued operations in the Rest of World.
The segment result from discontinued operations is disclosed in note 9, which provides a reconciliation to the net loss from discontinued 
operations. 64    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
3. Segmental information continued
Primary segments: markets continued
Year ended 31 December 2007
      Unallocated 
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
balance Sheet   
Assets:    
Segment assets, excluding corporation tax recoverable   313.2 137.9 1.4 452.5
Interests in associates    1.5 – – 1.5
Consolidated total assets, excluding tax assets and cash   314.7 137.9 1.4 454.0
Unallocated corporate assets       19.0
Total consolidated assets       473.0
Liabilities:       
Segment liabilities, excluding tax liabilities and debt   65.6 33.4 6.4 105.4
Unallocated corporate liabilities       182.3
Consolidated total liabilities       287.7
Secondary segments: geographic
Year ended 31 December 2008
    North Rest of 
   Europe America World Eliminations Total 
   £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin   263.0 213.4 36.4 – 512.8
External sales by destination   249.2 206.1 57.5 – 512.8
Inter-segment sales   9.9 2.3 0.6 (12.8) –
Underlying operating profit   5.2 10.4 2.9 0.3 18.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items  (36.0) (2.2) 4.0 – (34.2)
Segment result from continuing operations *  (30.8) 8.2 6.9 0.3 (15.4)
Investment income       0.9
Other gains and losses       0.8
Finance costs       (11.5)
Loss before tax       (25.2)
Tax       3.2
Loss after tax       (22.0)
*Segment result includes £0.2 million profit of associates within Europe (2007: £0.2 million).
Other information
     North Rest of 
    Europe America World Total 
   Note £’m £’m £’m £’m
Capital additions    24.6 3.4 6.6 34.6 
Depreciation and amortisation    16.3 12.2 2.6 31.1 
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss  14 11.8 – 2.4 14.2
Asset write downs recognised in profit or loss  14 19.6 0.1 – 19.7
Segment assets, excluding tax assets and cash   278.0 177.7 51.9 507.6
Interests in associates    2.2 – – 2.2
Consolidated total assets, excluding tax assets and cash   280.2 177.7 51.9 509.8
Unallocated corporate assets       36.0
Total consolidated assets       545.8
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    65 
3. Segmental information continued
Secondary segments: geographic continued
Year ended 31 December 2007
    North Rest of 
   Europe America World  Eliminations  Total 
   £’m £’m £’m  £’m  £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin   238.9 198.5 36.2  –  473.6
External sales by destination   225.5 197.9 50.2  –  473.6
Inter-segment sales   9.5 9.2 0.5  (19.2)   
Underlying operating profit   9.6 3.2 1.0  –  13.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items  (12.1) (81.4) (9.6) –  (103.1)
Segment result from continuing operations *  (2.5) (78.2) (8.6) –  (89.3)
Investment income         0.8
Finance costs         (11.6)
Loss before tax         (100.1) 
Tax         6.7 
Loss for the year from discontinued operations        (19.1)
Loss after tax and discontinued operations        (112.5)
*Segment result includes £0.2 million profit of associates within Europe.
Other information
     North  Rest of 
    Europe America  World  Total 
   Note £’m £’m  £’m  £’m
Capital additions    16.0 9.3  7.2  32.5 
Depreciation and amortisation    14.9 13.5  3.4  31.8 
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss  14 0.5 4.3  –  4.8
Asset write downs recognised in profit or loss  14 7.7 21.6  9.4  38.7
Segment assets, excluding tax assets and cash   252.6 150.0 49.9 452.5
Interests in associates    1.5 – – 1.5
Consolidated total assets, excluding tax assets and cash   254.1 150.0 49.9 454.0
Unallocated corporate assets       19.0
Total consolidated assets       473.0 66    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued
4. Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
Continuing operations
      2008 2007    
     Note £’m £’m
Net foreign exchange gains      (0.3) (1.2)
Change in the fair value of derivative assets outstanding at year end and classified as held for trading  (0.1) 0.6
Other operating income      (1.5) (2.2)
Research and development costs      7.1 7.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    14 30.6 32.6
Impairment and write downs of property, plant and equipment   14 33.9 43.5
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in administration expenses)   13 0.5 0.9
Impairment of goodwill     13 – 46.7
Total depreciation and amortisation expense     65.0 123.7
Total employee costs     12 86.6 90.2
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense     415.6 379.8
Write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense:
– underlying      – 1.1
– non-recurring      0.5 5.8
Total write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense    0.5 6.9
Current year other operating income of £1.5 million includes £0.6 million in respect of insurance claim proceeds received in connection with 
a fire in 2005 in one of our Hygiene plants. The balance comprises government grants, rental income and other sundry items. Other operating 
income of £2.2 million in the year ended 31 December 2007 also included £0.8 million compensation for loss of profit in respect of the delayed 
airlaid line installation in our Korma, Italy facility and £0.7 million from a third party in respect of a license fee for the right to use Hygiene 
nonwoven technology developed by Fiberweb. 
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts   0.9 0.9
Total      0.9 0.9
The Company audit fee is included within the Group audit fee in the current year and cannot be separately identified. Fees payable to Deloitte  
LLP for non-audit services were £210,000 (2007: £127,000) in respect of taxation services and £175,000 in respect of the Class 1 disposal of 
Bidim (2007: £140,000 in respect of due diligence on abortive acquisition projects).      Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    67 
5. Restructuring costs and non-recurring items
     Continuing operations
      2008 2007    
     Note £’m £’m
Cost of sales      (20.2) (31.8)
Administrative expenses      (0.6) (46.7) 
Profit on disposal of associated undertaking     – 0.3 
Profit on disposal of investment     33 3.0 – 
Profit on disposal of businesses     33 6.6 –
Restructuring costs      (23.0) (24.9)
      (34.2) (103.1)
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items included within statutory operating profit amounted to £34.2 million (2007: £103.1 million). 
The main items included within this are:
•	 Year	ended	31	December	2008
  –   Non-recurring cost of sales of £20.2 million comprising:
  (i)   impairments and write-downs of £20.0 million in respect of Hygiene production equipment: £8.8 million from the first half, plus 
£9.9 million in respect of Peine, Germany and £1.3 million in respect of Italy and France as we further rationalise our European 
capacity; 
  (ii)   a credit of £0.4 million in respect of government grants relating to European Industrial equipment written down in 2007 - these 
grants were previously at risk of having to be repaid, and 
  (iii)   losses of £0.6 million realised on disposal of written down inventory in our US Industrial nonwovens business.
 –  Non-recurring administrative expenses of £0.6 million in respect of professional fees and other costs related to the aborted discussions 
between Fiberweb and Avgol Industries 1953 Limited in respect of a possible offer for Fiberweb.
 –  £3.0 million profit on disposal of the Group’s 15% equity investment in Saudi German Nonwovens Products Co. (“SGN”) – refer notes 15 
and 33.
 –  £6.6 million profit on disposal of the Group’s shares in Fiberweb Bidim Industria e Comecio de Nao-Tecidos Ltda (“Bidim”), including 
£6.1 million in respect of recycled exchange gains previously recognised in the Group’s translation reserve – refer notes 29 and 33.
 – Non-recurring restructuring costs of £23.0 million comprising:
   (i)  £17.3 million in respect of the closure of our Korma, Italy facility, including £13.8 million of asset write-downs, £2.1 million of 
severance costs, £0.5 million in respect of onerous lease commitments and £0.9 million estimated costs to complete equipment 
dismantling and site closure;
  (ii)   £5.5 million of severance costs across both Hygiene and Industrial businesses in respect of ongoing restructuring programmes to 
streamline the Group’s structure to better serve customers, and
  (iii)   £0.2 million of costs to relocate certain assets in connection with the further rationalisation of the Group’s Hygiene site at 
Simpsonville, SC, USA. 
• Year ended 31 December 2007
 –  Non-recurring cost of sales of £31.8 million comprising:
  (i)   a £4.7 million write-down of inventory in our US Industrial nonwovens business to bring product down to its net realisable value 
following the restructuring in this business during the first half of the year; 
  (ii)   a £5.5 million write-down of assets in relation to a specialist US Hygiene production line as raw material price increases have resulted 
in the contract becoming commercially unviable; 
  (iii)  a £0.9 million impairment of US Industrial assets at AQF, our air quality filtration business, due to new competing technology 
negatively impacting future sales projections of our automotive cabin air product;
  (iv)  a £1.8 million impairment in respect of other US assets across both Hygiene and Industrial units in response to the above issues;
  (v)   a £9.4 million write-down in respect of assets in our Asian Hygiene business and a £2.7 million impairment in Hygiene Mexico, due 
to slower than expected demand from a major customer;
  (vi)  a £6.0 million impairment of a specialist production line in Germany to reflect slower than expected adoption of elastic nonwovens, 
and
  (vii)  a £0.8 million impairment in respect of older Hygiene production lines in Sweden and Germany. 
  68    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
5. Restructuring costs and non-recurring items continued
• Year ended 31 December 2007 continued
 – Non-recurring administrative expenses of £46.7 million comprising goodwill impairments of: 
  (i)   £1.6 million in respect of a specialist production line in Germany; 
   (ii) £4.0 million in respect of our US Industrial business at our Gray Court facility, following the closure of this site; 
  (iii)  a £1.4 million impairment of other goodwill attributed to the converting activity within US Industrial that was under commercial 
review;
  (iv) £4.9 million in respect of AQF goodwill, and 
  (v)  £34.8 million in respect of goodwill attributed to the Veratec businesses, largely in response to lower than expected demand at our 
Mexican Hygiene operation.
  –   Non-recurring gain on the sale of intellectual property in December 2007 of £0.3 million in connection with the Group’s disposal of its 
interest in associate Advanced Design Concepts GmbH (“ADC”) – refer note 15.
  –   Non-recurring restructuring costs of £24.9 million comprising: 
  (i)  £15.0 million of fixed asset write-downs, £1.1 million of inventory write-downs and £0.9 million of severance and closure costs in 
respect of our Gray Court facility; 
  (ii) £3.5 million and £0.2 million respectively in respect of the headcount reductions in Europe and Brazil; 
  (iii) £3.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs in our US Industrial business at Old Hickory; 
  (iv) £0.3 million of abortive acquisition costs, and 
  (v) £0.8 million loss on disposal of our cotton bleaching business at Griswoldville in June 2007.
6. Other gains and losses
Other gains and losses of £0.8 million (2007: £nil) comprise dividends received from SGN prior to its disposal in May 2008 (see notes 16  
and 33).
7. Investment income and finance costs
Continuing operations
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Interest on bank deposits      0.9 0.8
Total investment income      0.9 0.8
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts      (9.4) (10.5)
Interest on obligations under finance leases     (0.2) (0.1)
Total interest expense      (9.6) (10.6)
Net finance expense from pension schemes (note 25)     (0.9) (0.6)
Other finance costs      (0.7) (0.7)
      (11.2) (11.9)
Fair value (losses)/gains on interest rate swaps transferred from equity for cash flow hedges of floating rate debt (0.3) 0.3
Total finance costs      (11.5) (11.6)
Other finance costs comprise amortisation of prepaid facility fees of £0.3 million (2007: £0.2 million) and commitment fees of £0.4 million 
(2007: £0.5 million) paid on the Group’s undrawn revolving credit facility.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    69 
8. Taxation
   Continuing Operations  Disontinuing Operations Total
  2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Current tax       
Current income charge on underlying activities 5.3 4.4 – 0.1 5.3 4.5
Current income tax charge/(credit) on 
non-recurring activities  1.8 (0.1) – – 1.8 (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.3 (0.8) – – 0.3 (0.8)
Deferred tax       
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 
on underlying activities  (2.7) (3.4) – – (2.7) (3.4)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
on non-recurring activities  (5.0) (6.5) – (1.6) (5.0) (8.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
Income tax on operations  (0.3) (6.7) – (1.5) (0.3) (8.2)
Partial recognition of temporary differences  
on underlying activities in respect of US operations (2.9) – – – (2.9) –
Total income tax credit for the year  (3.2) (6.7) – (1.5) (3.2) (8.2)
 
The total tax credit for the year includes a credit of £1.2 million (2007: a charge of £0.3 million) in respect of UK operations. All other tax items 
relate to overseas operations. Domestic income tax is calculated at 28.5% (2007: 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation 
for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
In the light of post-demerger restructuring action and strategic focus in the Group’s US operations and taking into account the forecast future 
profitability of the US operations, including management’s view of possible sensitivities to those forecasts, the Group has recognised an asset 
of £5.7 million in respect of US deductible temporary differences, generating a credit of £2.9 million to the underlying deferred tax expense 
for the year and a credit of £1.5 million directly in equity in relation to temporary differences on retirement benefit obligations. The balance of 
£1.3 million is attributable to exchange differences on the underlying US Dollar asset.
The total income tax credit for the year can be reconciled to the total accounting profit as follows:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Loss before tax      (25.2) (120.7)
Standard UK tax rate      28.5% 30.0%
Loss before tax multiplied by the standard UK tax rate     (7.2) (36.2)
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes      2.1 –
Losses not recognised      9.8 8.7
Increased recognition of deferred tax assets     (5.0) –
Items on which deferred tax has not been recognised     (4.1) 23.6
Adjustments in respect of previous periods     0.1 (1.7)
Effects of different tax rates in overseas jurisdictions     1.1 (2.6)
Tax credit for the year      (3.2) (8.2)
Overall effective tax rate       12.7% 6.8%
Effective tax rate on underlying profits      –% (3.3%) 70    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
8. Taxation continued
The difference between the actual tax credit and that expected on the loss for the year has been based on the UK rate of Corporation tax of 
28.5% 2008 (2007: 30%). The comparison of actual tax is made against the UK standard rate rather than the blended rate of taxation for the 
Group, in order to provide a more consistent approach across the two years. The use of a blended rate would lead to a distortion year on year 
as the mix of profits and losses has changed considerably as have the underlying tax rates in various jurisdictions. 
In addition to the income tax expense charged to profit or loss, a net £2.3 million has been credited to equity in the period, comprising a 
credit of £1.4 million in respect of fair value adjustments on financial instruments, a charge of £0.6 million in respect of exchange gains and 
a credit of £1.5 million in respect of retirement benefit obligations (2007: £0.6 million charge in respect of fair value adjustments on financial 
instruments). 
The effective rate of tax on underlying continuing profits in the current year of £9.0 million is nil%, due to the credit of £2.9 million in partial 
recognition of the US deferred tax assets. Excluding this credit, the effective rate of tax on underlying continuing profits was 32.2%.
The effective rate of tax on underlying profits in the year ended 31 December 2007 was low as a result of prior year adjustments in relation to 
both current and deferred taxation. Excluding the effect of the prior year credits, the effective tax charge on underlying continuing profits for 
the year ended 31 December 2007 was £1.0 million which represented a tax rate of 33.3%.
9. Discontinued operations
There were no discontinued operations in the year ended 31 December 2008. 
On 25 May 2007, the Group completed the disposal of the shares of Fiberweb Tenotex SAU and Fiberweb Holdings SLU and the trade and assets 
of Fiberweb Tecnofibra Srl and the Bethune hygiene wipes business within Fiberweb Inc. (“Hygiene Wipes”) to Ahlstrom Corporation. 
The results of the discontinued operations included in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 were as 
follows:
      2007     
     Underlying Non-recurring Total 
     £’m £’m £’m 
Revenue     31.5 – 31.5
Expenses     (31.2) – (31.2)
Profit before tax      0.3  – 0.3
Income tax     (0.1) 1.6 1.5
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations    – (20.9) (20.9)
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations     0.2 (19.3) (19.1)
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items of £20.9 million represent the loss on the disposal (refer to note 33). Non-recurring taxation 
credits of £1.6 million relate to deferred tax liabilities reversed due to the sale and impairments.
During the period to disposal, the net operating cash outflow from Hygiene Wipes was £1.2 million. Additionally, Hygiene Wipes paid £0.3 million 
in respect of investing activities and £0.1 million in respect of financing activities.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 3.
10. Dividends
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:  
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 2.5 pence (2006: 3.95 pence)    3.0 4.9
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 1.7 pence (2007: 1.7 pence)   2.1 2.1 
Dividends paid to former parent company      0.5 –
      5.6 7.0
Proposed final dividend for the period ended 31 December 2008 of 
2.5 pence (2007: 2.5 pence) per share      3.0 3.0
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in 
these financial statements.
Dividends of £0.5 million paid to the former parent company in the current year relate to the distribution of profits earned by the Group’s German 
subsidiaries in the period prior to demerger in November 2006. Settlement was made in accordance with the Demerger Agreement following 
the filing of the local statutory accounts for the pre-demerger period.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    71 
11. Earnings per share
From continuing and discontinued operations
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Earnings  
Basic and diluted:  
Loss for the year – basic loss attributable to ordinary shareholders    (22.0) (112.5)
 Restructuring costs and non-recurring items     34.2 124.0
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items     (3.2) (8.2)
Adjusted earnings      9.0 3.3
  
Number of shares  
Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares:  
For basic earnings per share      122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted basic earnings per share      122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted adjusted earnings per share      123,406,230 122,440,375
  
Earnings/(loss) per share  
Basic:  
Adjusted      7.4p 2.7p
Unadjusted      (18.0)p (91.9)p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted      7.3p 2.7p
Unadjusted      (18.0)p (91.9)p
From continuing operations
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Earnings  
Basic and diluted:  
Loss for the year – basic loss attributable to ordinary shareholders    (22.0) (93.4)
Total adjusted earnings for continuing and discontinued operations    9.0 3.3
Adjustments to exclude profit for the year from discontinued operations    – (0.2)
Adjusted earnings from continuing operations     9.0 3.1
  
Number of shares  
Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares:  
For basic earnings per share      122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted basic earnings per share      122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted adjusted earnings per share      123,406,230 122,440,375
Earnings/(loss) per share  
Basic:  
Adjusted      7.4p 2.6p
Unadjusted      (18.0)p (76.3)p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted      7.3p 2.6p
Unadjusted      (18.0)p (76.3)p
   72    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
11. Earnings per share continued
From discontinued operations
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Earnings  
Basic and diluted:  
Loss for the year – basic loss attributable to ordinary shareholders    – (19.1)
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items     – 20.9
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items     – (1.6)
Adjusted earnings      – 0.2
  
Number of shares  
Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares:  
For basic earnings per share      122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted basic earnings per share      122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted adjusted earnings per share      123,406,230 122,440,375
  
Earnings/(loss) per share  
Basic:  
Adjusted      – 0.1p
Unadjusted      – (15.6)p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted      – 0.1p
Unadjusted      – (15.6)p
Adjusted earnings per share are shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and non-recurring items because the directors 
consider this gives a better indication of underlying performance.
Before recognition of deferred tax assets (refer to note 8) of £2.9 million (2007: £nil), adjusted earnings per share for the year ended  
31 December 2008 are 5.0p (2007: 2.6p). 
12. Employees
      2008 2007    
      Number Number
Average monthly number (including executive directors)  
By region  
Europe      907 1,020
North America      828 937
Rest of World      423 472
      2,158 2,429
By market  
Hygiene      1,233 1,428
Industrial      925 1,001
      2,158 2,429
      £’m £’m
Employment costs  
Wages and salaries      72.4 75.9
Social security costs       11.2 10.6
Pension costs (note 25)       2.7 3.2
Expense of share-based payments (note 27)      0.3 0.5
      86.6 90.2
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    73 
13. Intangible assets
      Software & 
     Goodwill Licences Total    
     £’m £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January 2007     107.2 6.5 113.7
Exchange adjustments     0.8 0.1 0.9
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary     (33.1) (0.2) (33.3)
Additions     – 0.2 0.2
At 1 January 2008     74.9 6.6 81.5
Exchange adjustments     27.4 4.0 31.4
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items    – (0.1) (0.1)
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary     – (0.3) (0.3)
Additions     – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2008     102.3 10.3 112.6
   
Amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2007     (14.2) (3.1) (17.3)
Exchange adjustments     (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary     14.2  0.1  14.3
Charge for the year     (46.7) (0.9) (47.6)
At 1 January 2008     (46.9) (4.1) (51.0)
Exchange adjustments     (18.0) (4.8) (22.8)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items    – 0.1 0.1
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary     – 0.2 0.2
Charge for the year     – (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 December 2008     (64.9) (9.1) (74.0)
   
Carrying amount:   
31 December 2008     37.4 1.2 38.6
   
31 December 2007     28.0 2.5 30.5
Licences are amortised over the period to which they relate, which is on average five years.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash- generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Veratec      5.0 5.0
Tenotex      18.1 12.7
US Industrial (Reemay)      13.5 9.7
Other – several CGUs      0.8 0.6
      37.4 28.0 74    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
13. Intangible assets continued
The business tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. 
The business prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management. Growth rates used for 
2009 to 2011 are based on selling price and cost assumptions for each business individually, built from management’s current knowledge and 
specific expectations for future profit evolution in the short term. Forecasts specifically exclude any incremental profits that may be generated 
through targeted investments in new technologies or strategic markets. Cash flows are then extrapolated for the following 40 years; growth 
rates from 2011 are assumed to be nil.
Value in use calculations assume an annual level of maintenance capital expenditure throughout the forecast period, with periodic higher 
investments included based on previous experience of the useful lives of the equipment in use. Specific capital injections to fund projects and 
new technologies are excluded from value in use calculations. 
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is estimated by reference to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and the degree 
of risk that management feels attaches to a CGU. The discount rates applied in the review at December 2008 range from 10% to 12% (2007: 
10% to 13%). 
Growth in the European Industrial businesses which support the Veratec goodwill is predicted to be lower than in previous years in view of the 
downturn in the European construction industry. Additional sensitivities have also been considered against the underlying forecasts for these 
businesses and, to reflect the increased economic risk, a higher discount rate of 12% has been applied. The discount rate would need to be 
increased to 15.7% or forecast profits reduced by 20% before the carrying value of the Veratec goodwill is impaired.
Tenotex is a key part of the Group’s European Consumer Fabric business and, as such, operates in the more defensive Hygiene market, where 
demand for its products has remained broadly stable and is expected to benefit from the upgraded resin-bond line that was successfully 
commissioned at the end of the year (refer to page 13 Significant Actions in 2008). The discount rate applied to this CGU is 10.2%. If the discount 
rate is increased by 1%, then goodwill would be impaired by £2.8 million. Profit in this CGU is assumed to grow by around 8% to 2011. If profits 
in this CGU are held flat at 2008 levels, then goodwill would be impaired by £4.0 million. 
The Reemay goodwill is comfortably supported by the US Industrial forecasts. A discount rate of 10.2% in line with the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital has been applied. 
With the exception of Veratec and Tenotex, management believes that there are no reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions which 
would result in the carrying amount of the CGUs exceeding the recoverable amounts.
Goodwill impairment of £46.7 million recognised during the year ended 31 December 2007 is described in note 5.
14. Property, plant and equipment
     Land & Fixtures &  
     Buildings Equipment Total   
     £’m £’m £’m
Cost or valuation   
At 1 January 2007     117.7 486.4 604.1
Exchange adjustments     4.8 18.1 22.9
Additions     1.1 31.6 32.7
Disposals      (1.7)  (0.8) (2.5)
Derecognised on disposal of businesses     (10.7)  (62.3) (73.0)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items    (6.8) (47.9) (54.7)
At 1 January 2008     104.4 425.1 529.5
Exchange adjustments     37.5 131.8 169.3
Additions     4.8 29.7 34.5
Assets contributed by minority interest (see note 30)    – 0.5 0.5
Disposals     (0.1) (2.3) (2.4)
Derecognised on disposal of businesses     (4.5) (10.9) (15.4)
Asset write-downs     (4.1) (41.0) (45.1)
At 31 December 2008     138.0 532.9 670.9
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    75 
14. Property, plant and equipment continued
     Land & Fixtures &  
     Buildings Equipment Total   
     £’m £’m £’m
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
At 1 January 2007     (36.8) (236.7) (273.5)
Exchange adjustments     (1.2) (10.4) (11.6)
Depreciation charge for the year     (3.7) (28.9) (32.6)
Disposals      0.6  0.7 1.3
Derecognised on disposal of businesses     3.0 39.1 42.1
Impairments      (0.2)  (4.6) (4.8)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items    1.1 14.9 16.0
At 1 January 2008     (37.2) (225.9) (263.1)
Exchange adjustments     (14.6) (77.6) (92.2)
Depreciation charge for the year     (4.3) (26.3) (30.6)
Disposals     0.1 2.0 2.1
Derecognised on disposal of businesses     2.0 4.4 6.4
Impairments     – (14.2) (14.2)
Asset write-downs     1.2 24.2 25.4
At 31 December 2008     (52.8) (313.4) (366.2)
   
Carrying amount:   
31 December 2008     85.2 219.5 304.7
   
31 December 2007     67.2 199.2 266.4
In the year ended 31 December 2008, non-recurring fixed asset write-downs of £19.7 million included £13.3 million in respect of the closure 
of our Korma, Italy facility, expensed through non-recurring restructuring costs totalling £23.0 million (note 5). The balance of £6.4 million is 
included within non-recurring cost of sales totalling £20.2 million (note 5) and comprised £5.6 million in respect of production equipment in our 
Hygiene plant at Peine, Germany and £0.8 million in respect of further capacity rationalisation in Europe Hygiene. Impairments of £14.2 million 
have also been expensed through non-recurring cost of sales and comprise £8.8 million recognised in the first half of the year in respect of 
non-US Hygiene equipment and £5.4 million in respect of capacity rationalisation in our European Hygiene plants.
In the year ended 31 December 2007, non-recurring asset write-downs of £38.7 million included £15.0 million in respect of the closure of Gray 
Court included within restructuring costs in note 5. The balance of £23.7 million, together with impairments of £4.8 million, was expensed 
through non-recurring cost of sales totalling £31.8 million (note 5).
The net book value derecognised in respect of disposal of businesses of £9.0 million comprised the assets of Brazilian subsidiary, Bidim 
(2007: £30.9 million comprised £29.6 million in respect of Hygiene Wipes and £1.3 million in respect of the sale of the Group’s cotton bleaching 
business in Griswoldville, Massachusetts) – refer to note 33. 
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Capital commitments  
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided     6.0 19.2
The carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures and equipment includes an amount of £6.1 million (2007: £8.1 million) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases. 
At 31 December 2008, the carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures and equipment includes £25.1 million (2007: £11.1 million) in respect of 
assets in the course of construction.
Where assets have been impaired the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value in use, estimated using discount 
rates ranging between 10% to 12% (2007: 10% to 13%).  76    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
15. Interests in associates
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Cost of investment in associates      1.4 1.1
Share of post acquisition profit, net of dividends received     0.8 0.4
      2.2 1.5
In December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement to liquidate associate Advanced Design Concepts GmbH (“ADC”) and sell the intellectual 
property owned by ADC to our joint venture partner. The Group recognised a gain on disposal of this investment of £0.3 million, related primarily 
to the sale to our joint venture partner of the right to use related intellectual property owned by our US Hygiene business (refer to note 5). 
The names and interests in major associated undertakings and joint ventures are shown in note 3 to the Company Financial Statements. 
Aggregated amounts relating to associates:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Total assets      7.2 5.6
Total liabilities      (0.8) (1.6)
Net assets      6.4 4.0
  
Revenue      14.7 11.0
Profit for the year      0.5 0.6
Business share of profit for the year      0.2 0.2
16. Other investments
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January       0.8 –
Disposals      (0.6) –
Balance reclassified during the year       – 0.8
Exchange adjustments      0.1 –
At 31 December      0.3 0.8
The carrying value of the Group’s investments SGN and Cordustex (Pty) Limited was reclassified during the year ended 31 December 2007. 
As at 31 December 2007, the Group owned a 15% interest in SGN and a 10% interest in Cordustex and the above value represents the original 
cost of investment in these entities plus a long term loan to SGN. 
In May 2008, the Group disposed of its investment in SGN (refer to note 33).
17. Inventories
      2008 2007
      £’m £’m
Raw materials      24.2 13.3
Work-in-progress      8.1 7.8
Finished goods      34.5 41.6
      66.8 62.7
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    77 
18. Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Trade receivables      71.3 70.8
Amounts owed by related parties (note 35)       4.0 3.5
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income     21.3 17.2
Derivative financial instruments      0.6 0.6
      97.2 92.1
Trade receivables
The average credit period granted on sales of goods is 54 days (2007: 55 days). No interest is charged on the receivables paid within their due 
date. Thereafter, the seller reserves the right to charge interest on the overdue outstanding balance at rates ranging from 1.5% to 4% above 
the bank base interest rate of the relevant jurisdiction. An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of 
goods of £4.0 million (2007: £1.3 million). This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and taking into account 
the Group’s credit insurance cover. Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit scoring system, available for use 
via the provider of its credit insurance cover, to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and define credit limits by customer.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
Amounts owed by related parties comprise amounts owed by the former parent company and include £4.0 million (2007: £3.5 million) in respect 
of indemnities provided for corporation tax liabilities in accordance with the terms of the Demerger Agreement. The increase in the year is 
attributable to exchange differences on the retranslation of the underlying balances.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £10.0 million (2007: £14.0 million) which are past due 
at the reporting date and for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are 
still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances, as in the event of default, the Group would pursue 
reimbursement by claiming on its credit insurance cover. 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Amounts overdue by:  
Less than 30 days      7.3 8.7
Between 30 – 60 days      2.7 4.4
Between 60 – 90 days      – 0.2
More than 90 days      – 0.7
      10.0 14.0
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Amounts overdue by:  
Less than 30 days      1.2 0.1
Between 30 – 60 days      0.4 0.1
Between 60 – 90 days      0.7 0.4
More than 90 days      1.7 0.7
      4.0 1.3 78    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
18. Other financial assets continued
Movement in the allowance for estimated unrecoverable amounts in respect of trade receivables
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Balance at the beginning of the period      1.3 1.3
Balance disposed of      (0.1) –
Impairment losses recognised      1.8 0.4
Amounts written back/(written off)      0.3 (0.5)
Exchange adjustments      0.7 0.1
balance at the end of the year      4.0 1.3
Cash and cash equivalents
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Cash on hand and at bank      26.4 17.1
Cash and cash equivalents      26.4 17.1
Less: bank overdrafts      (6.0) (8.9)
 Net cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes     20.4 8.2
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the business and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents at the reporting date are denominated in the following currencies:
    Swedish
  US Dollar Euro  Krona Sterling Other Total
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2008      
Cash on hand and at bank  10.2 9.6 0.2 4.3 2.1 26.4
31 December 2007      
Cash on hand and at bank  3.9 6.8 2.2 1.8 2.4 17.1
 
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The credit risk on liquid 
funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances 
for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is 
evidence of a reduction of the cash flows. The Group has global credit insurance cover to mitigate the risk of a material bad debt; the terms of 
this policy impose credit limits on individual customers according to their credit rating and the maximum excess payable by the Group in the 
event of a claim is £25,000, both of which further restrict the Group’s exposure to default.
In response to the current global economic crisis, the Group’s credit insurer has undertaken a review of its risk portfolio and as a result has 
either reduced credit limits or withdrawn cover for a number of the Group’s customers, notably within the construction sector. In the event 
that cover is either restricted or withdrawn, Group policy requires rigorous review of the customer’s current financial health and careful 
management of the maximum exposure to the Group at any one time. The amount of risk accepted by the Group is subject to defined approval 
limits up to the executive directors. Whilst every effort is made to limit the Group’s exposure to potential credit risk, the provision for such risk 
has been increased from £1.3 million at December 2007 to £4.0 million at the end of the current year. 
The Group has some concentration of credit risk, especially within the Hygiene businesses, where a significant percentage of sales are to a 
small Group of key customers. However the Group’s major customers have high credit ratings, and therefore the directors do not believe that 
this creates a significant risk exposure. Refer also to the Business Review on page 30.
Categories of financial assets
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset are disclosed in note 2.
      Carrying value 
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) – held for trading    0.6 0.6
Receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)     123.0 108.6
      123.6 109.2
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    79 
19. Trade and other payables
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Trade payables      51.7 48.5
Other taxation and social security      11.8 5.9
Accruals and deferred income      24.5 20.8
Derivative financial instruments      8.2 1.7
      96.2 76.9
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade 
purchases is 55 days (2007: 47 days). The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair 
value.
Categories of financial liabilities
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial liability are disclosed in note 2.
      Carrying value 
      2008 2007
      £’m £’m
 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships    8.1 1.7
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) – held for trading    0.1 –
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost     276.2 236.6
      284.4 238.3
20. Obligations under finance leases 
       Present value 
     Minimum   of minimum 
     lease payments  lease payments
    2008 2007 2008 2007 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Amounts payable under finance leases:    
Within one year    2.8 2.6 2.8 2.3
In the second to fifth years inclusive    – 2.4 – 2.4
    2.8 5.0 2.8 4.7
Less: future finance charges    – (0.3) n/a n/a
Present value of lease obligations    2.8 4.7 2.8 4.7
    
Less: amounts due for settlement within one year (shown under current liabilities)   (2.8) (2.3)
      – 2.4
 
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases. For the year ended 31 December 2008, the average 
effective borrowing rate was 5.36% (2007: 5.25%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date or vary based on prevailing interest rates. 
Finance lease obligations are denominated in the following currencies: Euros £0.5 million (2007: £1.2 million) and Swedish Krona £2.3 million 
(2007: £3.5 million). 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. 
Obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.   80    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
21. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee 
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year   1.9 1.8
At the balance sheet date, the business has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Within one year      1.8 1.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive      4.5 4.7
After five years      0.6 0.9
      6.9 7.2
Operating lease payments represent amounts payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, plant and equipment. Leases are 
negotiated for an average term of one year for office properties, twelve years for warehouses and four years for equipment. Rentals are 
generally fixed or adjusted for based on inflation.
22. Bank overdrafts and loans
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Bank overdrafts      6.0 8.9
Bank loans      167.5 141.1
      173.5 150.0
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
On demand or within one year      10.5 18.1
In the second year       5.3 –
In the third to fifth years inclusive      157.7 131.9
      173.5 150.0
Less: Amount due for settlement within one year (shown under current liabilities)   (10.5) (18.1)
Amounts due for settlement after more than one year     163.0 131.9
The fair value of the Group’s borrowings is not materially different from their carrying values. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    81 
22. Bank overdrafts and loans continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings at the reporting date are denominated in the following currencies:
    Swedish
  US Dollar Euro  Krona Sterling Other Total
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2008      
Bank overdrafts  0.1 1.9 0.6 3.4 – 6.0
Bank loans  70.3 68.7 19.6 (0.6) 9.5 167.5
  70.4 70.6 20.2 2.8 9.5 173.5
      
31 December 2007      
Bank overdrafts  3.4 2.6 0.6 2.3 – 8.9
Bank loans  62.8 63.7 11.2 (0.9) 4.3 141.1
  66.2 66.3 11.8 1.4 4.3 150.0
The average interest rates on borrowings from unrelated third parties are as follows:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
US Dollar      5.27% 6.65%
Euro      6.32% 5.32%
Swedish Krona      6.27% 4.94%
Since demerger, the Group’s primary source of funds is a $405 million (reduced from $439.5 million during the year) multi-currency, revolving 
credit facility (“RCF”) provided by a syndicate of several international banks, maturing in 2011. Borrowings under this facility are in Euro, US 
Dollars and Swedish Krona for maturities of up to six months. All amounts drawn down are at floating interest rates. Amounts owed under the 
RCF are shown as maturing between three and five years. The majority of borrowings are arranged at floating rates, thus exposing the Group 
to interest rate risk. The effective rates on borrowings are not materially different from their nominal interest rates. 
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. The business has secured loans of £3.6 million (2007: £6.0 million). The RCF is guaranteed by a 
number of the Group’s trading entities in respect of the parent’s liabilities. All other bank loans are unsecured, although there are some cases 
where parent guarantees have been issued in respect of bank loans to overseas subsidiaries.
At year end the Group had available $179.4 million (2007: $177.3 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Liquidity risk management
The Group is exposed to short term liquidity risks if outflows exceed the funds currently available at the time. Ultimate responsibility for liquidity 
risk management rests with the board of directors. The board in conjunction with the Group’s treasury function have built an appropriate 
liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long term funding and liquidity management 
requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves under the revolving credit facility and continuously monitoring 
forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring adequate funds are drawn down to cover any outflows required, subject to the restrictions imposed 
by the Group’s banking covenants. The additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk are set 
out above. 
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its non-derivative financial assets. The table has been drawn up based on 
undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets.
     Within   
     1 year 1-5 years Total   
     £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2008      
Non-interest bearing     96.1 – 96.1
31 December 2007      
Non-interest bearing     91.5 – 91.5 82    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
22. Bank overdrafts and loans continued
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up 
based on undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities and includes both interest and principal cash flows.
     Within   
     1 year 1-5 years Total   
     £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2008      
Non-interest bearing     97.1 2.8 99.9
Finance lease liability     2.8 – 2.8
Variable interest rate instruments     11.1 191.9 203.0
     111.0 194.7 305.7
31 December 2007      
Non-interest bearing     79.4 2.5 81.9
Finance lease liability     2.3 2.4 4.7
Variable interest rate instruments     19.3 163.1 182.4
     101.0 168.0 269.0
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The table has been drawn up based on the 
undiscounted net cash inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows/(outflows) 
on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been 
determined by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
    Within Within Within  
    1 month 1-12 months 2-5 years Total   
    £m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2008        
Interest rate swaps    – (2.4) (5.7) (8.1)
Foreign exchange forward contracts    0.5 – – 0.5
    0.5 (2.4) (5.7) (7.6)
   
31 December 2007      
Interest rate swaps    – (0.1) (1.4) (1.5)
Foreign exchange forward contracts    0.6 (0.2) – 0.4
    0.6 (0.3) (1.4) (1.1)
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt which includes 
borrowings disclosed in this note, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, 
reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 28 to 31. The Group reviews its capital structure regularly and as part of such review,  
it considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Externally imposed capital requirement
Under the revolving credit facility the Group is subject to capital requirements of a gearing ratio (net debt to EBITDA) and an interest cover 
ratio (EBITDA to interest) which are measured every six months on 30 June and 31 December. EBITDA is defined as underlying operating profit 
adjusted to exclude interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and certain other non-cash items. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    83 
22. Bank overdrafts and loans continued
The net debt to EBITDA requirements are set out in the following table. 
      Consolidated Net borrowings 
relevant period ending:      shall not exceed
31 December 2006 and 30 June 2007     3.50 times EBITDA
31 December 2007 and 30 June 2008     3.25 times EBITDA
31 December 2008 and 30 June 2009     3.00 times EBITDA
31 December 2009 and 30 June 2010     2.75 times EBITDA
31 December 2010     2.50 times EBITDA
The EBITDA to interest ratio is also measured every six months is as follows:
relevant period ending:    ebiTDA to exceed or be equal to  
31 December 2006     5.00 times interest
30 June 2007     4.00 times interest
31 December 2007      4.50 times interest
30 June 2008     4.75 times interest
31 December 2008 to 31 December 2010    5.00 times interest
The Group has remained within these limits at all times over the life of the facility.
The immediate impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s net debt versus the slower impact on the Group’s trading results can 
adversely impact the calculation of the Group’s gearing covenant at 30 June and 31 December covenant test dates. This risk is mitigated by 
the existence of a clause in the Group’s RCF Agreement allowing net debt to be translated at the cumulative average exchange rates for the 
relevant period, if, and only if, the Group would be in breach of the covenant if spot rates are used to retranslate net debt.
23. Derivative financial instruments
    2008 2008 2007 2007 
    Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Derivatives that are designated and effective
as hedging instruments carried at fair value    
Interest rate swaps    – (8.1) – (1.5)
Forward foreign currency contracts     – – – (0.2)
    
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)    
Held for trading derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships:    
Forward foreign currency contracts    0.6 (0.1) 0.6 –
Note 18, 19    0.6 (8.2) 0.6 (1.7)
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in note 22.
The fair values of all derivative financial instruments shown in the table above are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the 
balance sheet date and are held as assets and liabilities within other receivables and payables. Derivative instruments are fair valued based 
on the estimated market valuations provided by the respective bank with which the instrument is held. 
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s corporate treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, 
monitors and manages the financial risks relating to operations. These risks include market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest 
rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk. 
The Group seeks to manage the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these exposures. The use of financial 
derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, 
interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. 
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer on a continuous basis and periodically by internal audit. 
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes. 84    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
23. Derivative financial instruments continued
Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into a variety of financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
•  forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising in trading subsidiaries, primarily through net sales to 
customers and purchases from suppliers in currencies other than their domestic local currency;
• interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates, and
• forward foreign exchange swaps to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on net balance sheet exposure around the Group.
There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk. 
Foreign currency risk management
The overall policy of Fiberweb is to use borrowings in currency to manage the translational currency risk arising from assets and earnings 
in overseas subsidiaries. The currency profile of borrowings under the RCF broadly mirrors the currency profile of the Group’s net assets. 
Foreign currency-denominated borrowings are largely designated as net investment hedges. Foreign exchange forwards are used to manage 
the net balance sheet exposure. It is the Group’s policy not to undertake speculative currency transactions. 
Fiberweb’s business is characterised by a relatively low level of cross border activity, and therefore the Group has little transactional currency 
exposure. Overall, the volume of transactions with a currency impact is below 10% of turnover. However, the Group’s policy is that, where 
significant transactional exposures exist, these exposures should be hedged with maturities not to exceed twelve months.
The Group monitors the translational foreign currency exposures of its financial assets and liabilities on a monthly basis, adapting its portfolio 
of loans and hedges as may be required. 
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge transactional risk are taken to the income statement. As at  
31 December 2008, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £17.8 million (2007: £30.5 million) of forward contracts to buy or sell 
foreign currency. The fair value of such transactions was £0.5 million (2007: 0.4 million). 
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding at the year end:
Forward foreign exchange contracts
 Average   
 exchange rates Foreign currency Contract value Fair value
  2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Outstanding contracts: 
Buy Euro/sell GBP  – 1.39 – 21.0 – 15.1 – 0.4
Buy USD/sell GBP   1.54 2.04 13.0 12.0 8.5 5.9 0.6 0.2
Sell SEK/buy GBP  11.64 13.11 19.0 90.0 1.6 6.9 – (0.2)
Buy SEK/sell GBP  – 13.17 – 9.4 – 0.7 – –
Sell USD/buy Euro  – 1.44 – 0.5 – 0.3 – –
Sell Euro/buy GBP  1.05 1.40 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 – –
Buy SEK/sell Euro  – 9.34 – 18.7 – 1.5 – –
Sell EUR/buy SEK  11.07 – 7.6 – 7.4 – (0.1) – 
Sell MXP/buy USD  13.70 – 4.8 – 0.2 – – –
      17.8 30.5 0.5 0.4
All contracts mature within 30 days of year end.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate applicable for the US Dollar and the Euro. Operating profit, EBITDA and net 
debt are the key inputs into the Group’s gearing covenant and the exchange impacts on these variables are monitored closely. 
The following table illustrates the impact on the Group’s continuing underlying operating profit, EBITDA, net debt and equity of a 10% increase 
and decrease in Sterling against each of these currencies, assuming all other variables are unchanged. The use of a 10% variation has been 
chosen in light of the magnitude of recent fluctuations in both the US Dollar and Euro values against Sterling. These values have been computed 
using the currency profile of the Group’s operating profit, EBITDA and net debt. For the restatement of the Group’s operating profit and EBITDA, 
the Sterling equivalents have been retranslated by flexing the cumulative average exchange rates used by the Group for the relevant periods. 
For the restatement of the Group’s net debt and equity, the Sterling equivalents have been retranslated by flexing the actual closing exchange 
rates used by the Group at the period ends. The relevant cumulative average and closing exchange rates used by the Group for 2008 and 2007 
are published in the Business Review on page 29.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    85 
23. Derivative financial instruments continued 
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Flexing the USD/£ cross rate  
Continuing underlying operating profit:  
As reported       18.8 13.8
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate    17.8 13.3
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate    20.0 14.5
  
Continuing underlying EBITDA:  
As reported      49.9 45.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate    47.9 44.0
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate    52.4 47.6
  
Net debt:  
As reported      149.9 137.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate    144.4 131.9
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate    156.6 144.5
  
Equity:  
As reported      196.6 185.3
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate    192.3 183.9
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate    201.8 187.0
  
Flexing the Euro/£ cross rate  
Continuing underlying operating profit:  
As reported       18.8 13.8
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate    18.4 13.0
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate    19.3 14.9
  
Continuing underlying EBITDA:  
As reported      49.9 45.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate    48.5 43.8
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate    51.7 47.9
Flexing the Euro/£ cross rate  
Net debt:  
As reported      149.9 137.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate    144.3 132.1
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate    156.7 144.3
  
Equity:  
As reported      196.6 185.3
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate    189.7 179.0
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate    205.0 193.0 86    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
23. Derivative financial instruments continued
The impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s operating profit and EBITDA in 2008 has not been as notable as might be expected in the 
face of significant movements in both the Euro and USD cross rate with Sterling, particularly in the second half of the year. This is attributable 
to the use of a 13 month cumulative average exchange rate to convert profits, which slows the impact of spot changes in the cross rate. 
Exchange rate movements have had a much greater impact on the Sterling equivalent of net debt and equity during 2008, since the translation 
is based on the exchange rates at a given point in time, rather than the cumulative average rate applied to the income statement and the 
absolute value being retranslated is in excess of approximately £140 million and £190 million respectively. The reduction in net debt during 
2008 has helped mitigate this translation exposure. 
Interest rate risk
The Group is predominantly exposed to interest rate fluctuations on the portion of the revolving credit facility that is not covered by hedging 
arrangements. The total amount drawn down under the RCF at the year end was £157.1 million (2007: £131.6 million). The Group’s policy is 
to use a combination of debt and derivative instruments to hedge portions of its interest rate exposure for varying periods, up to the maturity 
of its underlying borrowing facilities. Interest rate swaps are entered into after due consideration by the Group’s treasury function of actual 
base interest rates and financial market projections for future changes to those rates based on economic conditions, and such swaps must be 
approved by the board of directors in line with Group policy. 
The Group entered into a series of interest rate swaps for totals of US$100.0 million and Euro 60.0 million (2007: US$100.0 million, Euro 60.0 
million), spread over several banks, whereby it pays a blended average fixed rate of 4.78% for US Dollar and 4.62% for Euros and receives 
floating rate. The swaps mature in 2010 and 2011 and have been designated interest risk hedges. The interest rate swaps settle on a semi-
annual basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 6-month US Dollar LIBOR and 6-month EURIBOR respectively. The Group will settle 
the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis. The interest rate swaps settlements and the interest payments on the 
loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest 
payments on debt impact profit or loss. The fair market value of the swaps at 31 December 2008 was a loss of £8.1 million (2007: a loss of £1.5 
million) and the loss (2007: loss) has been debited (2007: debited) to the hedging reserve (note 29). 
The following table summarises the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of the interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at 
the reporting date:
Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts:
  Average contract National  
  fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value
    2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 
    % % £’m £’m £’m £’m
Maturing in 2011     4.69 4.69 127.7 94.4 (8.1) (1.5)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The interest sensitivity analysis below is based on the assumption that changes in market interest rates affect the interest income or expense 
of variable interest financial instruments and that a change in market interest rates only affects interest income or expense in relation to 
financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at their fair value.
Under these assumptions, if market interest rates over the course of the year were on average 1% higher or lower for all currencies in which 
the Group had borrowings this would increase or decrease profit before tax and equity as follows:
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Average amount drawn down under the revolving credit facility    142.3 153.6
Average amount covered by hedging arrangements      102.5 70.6
  
Average amount exposed to interest rate fluctuations     39.8 83.0
Effect on profit before tax and equity in the event of a 1% rise or fall in average interest rates over the period.  0.4 0.8
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    87 
23. Derivative financial instruments continued
During 2008, there has been no notable change in the Group’s sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations. During the year ended 31 December 
2007, the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates decreased mainly due to the reduction in drawn down amounts under the facility and the addition 
of Euro interest rate swaps. 
Changes in interest rates in the market affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and all 
interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective. 
Changes in fair values of interest rate hedging instruments are taken to the hedge reserve. 
Commodity Risks 
The Group faces commodity raw material price exposure to a number of raw materials, mainly polypropylene and, to a lesser extent, polyester 
and polyethylene. The monthly management reporting process highlights the net impact, adverse or favourable, of fluctuations in raw 
material prices and this is considered by the board. The Group prefers to manage its exposure to polypropylene and others through business 
arrangements with its suppliers and customers, which neutralise part of the exposure. The market for appropriate hedging instruments is 
monitored continuously by management with a view to mitigate this risk. At 31 December 2008 and 2007, no commodity derivatives were 
outstanding.
Further discussion of the key risks to which Fiberweb is exposed can be found on pages 29 to 30 of the Business Review. 
24. Provisions
       Restructuring  
       provisions    
       £’m
At 1 January 2008       6.7
Exchange rate adjustments       2.6
Charged in the year       11.0
Utilised in the year       (8.4)
At 31 December 2008       11.9
Restructuring provisions represent costs provided in relation to obligations existing at the balance sheet date for reorganisation around the 
globe: £4.9 million in respect of US actions, including £3.8 million in respect of an onerous lease provision in North America, £2.8 million in 
respect of redundancy costs across Europe and £4.2 million in respect of the closure of our Korma, Italy facility. 
The provision brought forward relates primarily to the restructuring of the US Hygiene business (£5.3 million), with £1.4 million relating to 
European restructuring. 
Amounts payable after more than one year comprise rent obligations in respect of an onerous lease provisions in North America and Italy 
(2007: North America only).
      2008 2007    
      £’m £’m
Current liabilities      9.1 4.2
Non-current liabilities      2.8 2.5
      11.9 6.7
25. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of pension plans worldwide. The majority of these are defined contribution in nature. The normal pension cost 
for the Group, including early retirement costs, was 2.7 million (2007 £3.2 million) of which £2.6 million (2007: £3.1 million) was in respect of 
foreign schemes. This includes £1.6 million (2007: £1.9 million) relating to defined contribution schemes. The pension costs are assessed in 
accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries, where practicable, using a variety of methods and assumptions and otherwise, 
in respect of certain foreign schemes, in accordance with local regulations. 
The Group’s foreign pension schemes mainly relate to defined contribution plans. 
The most significant defined benefit pension plans are in North America, where the Group operates two funded final salary pension 
arrangements. Pension costs for these plans have been calculated by independent qualified actuaries, using the projected unit method and 
assumptions appropriate to the arrangements in place. 
The Group also operates a number of post-retirement benefit plans in North America which principally cover healthcare and life assurance 
benefits for its current and future retirees. The costs of these benefits are also assessed by independent qualified actuaries using methods 
and assumptions appropriate under IAS 19.  88    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
25. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
In accordance with IAS 19 the latest actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare plans have been 
reviewed and updated as at 31 December 2008. The following weighted average financial assumptions have been adopted:
  
 North America  Rest of World
p.a. (%)  2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Discount rate  6.2 6.0 5.8 5.8 5.6 4.6
Rate of increase to pensionable salaries  2.5 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.3 3.0
Price inflation  2.0 2.8 2.8 2.1 2.1 2.1
Rate of increase to pensions in payment  – – – 1.8 1.8 1.9
Rate of healthcare cost increases   8% reducing to 5% over the next 3 years – – –
Mortality assumptions
Mortality assumptions for the US plans are based on the US standard table RP2000 with allowance for future improvements in mortality allowed 
for in line with projections scale AA. Generational tables have been used so that the basis used to calculate liabilities in respect of future 
pensioners assumes lower mortality (i.e. a larger allowance for improvements) than for current pensioners. The expected future lifetimes 
calculated using these assumptions are summarised as follows:
      2008 2007    
Expected future lifetime of:  
 – a 65 year old current male pensioner      19.6 years 19.6 years
 – a 65 year old current female pensioner      21.6 years 21.6 years
 – a 65 year old future male pensioner       21.1 years 21.1 years
 – a 65 year old future female pensioner       22.5 years 22.4 years
The key sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities relate to the discount rate and the mortality 
rate and are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption  Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 10.5%/11.6%
Rate of mortality Increase by 1 year Increase by 2.75%
Since the majority of the Group’s defined benefit liabilities relate to frozen US schemes, changes to inflation and salary assumptions do not 
have a material impact on the Group’s liabilities.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities of the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
 North America Rest of World Total
 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Equities 11.5 16.0 14.2 – 0.1 0.5 11.5 16.1 14.7
Government bonds 15.9 11.0 1.8 – 0.1 0.1 15.9 11.1 1.9
Corporate bonds 4.5 0.9 11.7 – – – 4.5 0.9 11.7
Other 1.2 1.3 1.1 1.1 0.8 – 2.3 2.1 1.1
Total fair value of scheme assets 33.1 29.2 28.8 1.1 1.0 0.6 34.2 30.2 29.4
Obligations         
Present value of funded defined
benefit obligations (50.9) (37.5) (38.7) (1.2) (0.9) (0.4) (52.1) (38.4) (39.1)
Present value of unfunded defined
benefit obligations (10.7) (7.8) (7.3) (6.9) (5.8) (6.2) (17.6) (13.6) (13.5)
Total value of scheme obligations (61.6) (45.3) (46.0) (8.1) (6.7) (6.6) (69.7) (52.0) (52.6)
Liability recognised on the balance sheet date (28.5) (16.1) (17.2) (7.0) (5.7) (6.0) (35.5) (21.8) (23.2)
The funding policy for the schemes is reviewed on a systematic basis and in consultation with an independent qualified actuary where 
appropriate in order to ensure that the funding contributions from sponsoring employers are appropriate to meet the liabilities of the schemes 
over the long term. 
The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect the Group’s best estimate of the investment returns (net of tax and expenses) that will be 
earned on each asset class over the long term. The expected return on assets in the analysis of the income statement is based on weighted 
average returns using these rates, and taking into account the asset allocation of each plan.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    89 
25. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued 
      North America
%     2008 2007 2006
Long term expected rate of return on plan assets   
Equities     7.7 8.3 8.8
Government bonds     2.7 4.5 4.8
Corporate bonds     4.7 5.5 5.8
Other     1.4 3.0 3.0
  
  North America Rest of World Total
  2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Analysis of income statement charge      
Current service cost  0.3 0.3 0.8 0.8 1.1 1.1
Interest cost  2.8 2.5 0.2 0.2 3.0 2.7
Expected return on assets  (2.1) (2.0) – (0.1) (2.1) (2.1)
Immediate recognition of losses/(gains)
arising over the year  – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Losses due to settlements, curtailments and
termination benefits  – 0.3 – – – 0.3
Expense recognised in income statement  1.0 1.1 1.0 1.1 2.0 2.2
Current service costs and curtailment gains/losses and termination benefits in respect of underlying trading operations have been recognised 
in the income statement within administrative expenses. Curtailment gains/losses in respect of non-recurring restructuring activity are 
recognised in the income statement in restructuring costs. Net interest payable of £0.9 million (2007: £0.6 million) has been recognised within 
finance costs (see note 7).
  North America Rest of World Total
  2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Changes to the fair value of scheme 
assets during the year      
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year  29.2 28.8 1.0 0.6 30.2 29.4
Expected return on assets  2.1 2.0 – 0.1 2.1 2.1
Actual employer contributions  2.2 2.7 1.3 1.1 3.5 3.8
Contributions by plan participants  0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2
Net benefits paid out  (3.2) (4.5) (1.5) (1.6) (4.7) (6.1)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on assets  (7.1) 2.0 – 0.7 (7.1) 2.7
Settlements  – (1.5) – – – (1.5)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  9.7 (0.5) 0.3 0.1 10.0 (0.4)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year  33.1 29.2 1.1 1.0 34.2 30.2 90    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
25. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
  North America Rest of World Total
  2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Changes to the defined benefit 
obligation during the year      
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year  45.3 46.0 6.7 6.6 52.0 52.6
Current service cost  0.3 0.3 0.8 0.8 1.1 1.1
Interest cost  2.8 2.5 0.2 0.2 3.0 2.7
Contributions by plan participants  0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2
Actuarial (gains)/losses on scheme liabilities *  (1.2) 2.9 – 0.7 (1.2) 3.6
Net benefits paid out  (3.2) (4.5) (1.5) (1.6) (4.7) (6.1)
Gains due to settlements and curtailments  – (1.2) – – – (1.2)
Liabilities disposed of  – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Termination benefits  – – – – – –
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  17.4 (0.9) 1.9 0.6 19.3 (0.3)
Defined benefit obligation at end of year  61.6 45.3 8.1 6.7 69.7 52.0
*Includes changes to the actuarial assumptions.
  North America Rest of World Total
  2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
      
Actual return on scheme assets  (5.0) 4.0 – 0.1 (5.0) 4.1
Analysis of amounts recognised in the Statement 
of Recognised Income and Expense      
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the year  (5.9) (0.9) – 0.2 (5.9) (0.7)
Total losses in the Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense  (5.9) (0.9) – 0.2 (5.9) (0.7)
Cumulative amount of losses recognised in the 
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense  (13.0) (7.1) (1.3) (1.3) (14.3) (8.4)
A 1% increase in assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate charge in the income statement by £0.1 million (2007: £0.1 
million) and increase the net liability by £1.1 million (2007: £0.8 million). A 1% decrease in assumed medical cost trend rates would reduce the 
aggregate charge in the income statement by £0.1 million (2007: £0.1 million) and reduce the net liability by £0.9 million (2007: £0.6 million).
 North America Rest of World Total
 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
History of Asset Values, 
Defined benefit Obligations         
Fair value of assets 33.1 29.2 28.8 1.1 1.0 0.6 34.2 30.2 29.4
Defined benefit obligations 61.6 45.3 46.0 8.1 6.7 6.6 69.7 52.0 52.6
Deficit (28.5) (16.1) (17.2) (7.0) (5.7) (6.0) (35.5) (21.8) (23.2)
         
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme assets (7.1) 2.0 0.5 – 0.7 0.1 (7.1) 2.7 0.6
Experience losses on scheme liabilities (0.1) (2.3) (1.4) – (0.3) – (0.1) (2.6) (1.4)
     North Rest of  
     America World Total   
     £’m £’m £’m
Employer contributions in 2009 are estimated to be:    2.5 0.6 3.1
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    91 
26. Deferred tax 
    Goodwill Tax losses  
  Fixed Other and and tax Retirement 
  assets assets intangibles credits benefits Total 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2007  (22.8) (0.9) – (0.1) – (23.8)
Amounts derecognised on disposal of businesses  – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Credited/(charged) in year   5.8 1.0 0.2 3.2 0.4 10.6
Recognised directly in equity  – 1.4 – – 1.5 2.9
Exchange adjustments  (4.9) 0.4 0.1 1.0 0.5 (2.9)
At 31 December 2008  (21.9) 1.9 0.3 4.3 2.4 (13.0)
In accordance with IAS 12, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances 
(after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Deferred tax liabilities      (21.9) (24.3)
Deferred tax assets      8.9 0.5
      (13.0) (23.8)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses and other temporary differences of £21.4 
million (2007: £18.3 million) available for offset against future profits. These assets have not been recognised as the precise incidence of future 
profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be predicted accurately at this time. The Group’s tax losses may be carried forward 
indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £0.2 million (2007: £2.5 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these 
differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant.  92    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
27. Share-based payments
Up to the date of demerger, certain directors and employees of Fiberweb were entitled to participate in the share option schemes of the former 
parent company. 
Since demerger, Fiberweb has issued its own share-based payment compensation plans. In the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group 
recognised a total expense, within staff costs, in relation to share-based payments under equity settled schemes of £0.3 million (2007: £0.5 
million).
The schemes in operation during the year are as follows. 
Demerger Share Plan (“DSP”) 
The DSP provided for the grant of free shares in the form of contingent shares. The award of shares under the DSP was made on 27 November 
2006 and the 2,091,250 shares that were granted in relation to this award in 2006 were subject to a two year performance period. Subject to 
good leaver provisions, awards were forfeited if the employee left before the end of the vesting period. 
Fifty per cent of the shares awarded under the grant were governed by a Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) market based performance 
condition. The remaining fifty per cent were governed by an Earnings per Share (“EPS”) performance condition.
DSP awards outstanding at the vesting date of 26 November 2008 were 1,021,939 (December 2007: 1,681,098). These awards lapsed in full at 
the vesting date due to the performance criteria not having been met. £0.6 million (2007: £nil) was credited to retained earnings in respect of 
the lapsed DSP awards that were subject to the TSR performance conditions (see note 29). £nil was credited to current year income in respect 
of the lapsed DSP awards that were subject to the EPS performance conditions. The Group recognised a charge of £0.4 million in respect of 
the DSP awards in the year ended 31 December 2007.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
The LTIP provides for the grant of free shares in the form of contingent shares. 
The first award of shares under the LTIP was made on 27 November 2006, when 1,143,938 shares were granted. Further awards of 1,333,333 
and 1,807,029 shares under the LTIP were made on 12 and 29 May 2008 respectively.
Shares in relation to both awards will be released to participants at the end of an expected three year performance period, dependent on the 
extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied. Subject to good leaver provisions, awards are forfeited if the employee leaves 
before the end of the vesting period. 
Fifty per cent of the shares awarded under the grants are governed by a TSR market based performance condition. The remaining fifty per 
cent is governed by an EPS performance condition.
The Group recognised a total expense in relation to LTIP awards of £0.2 million (2007: £0.1 million). Awards outstanding at the end of the year 
were 3,235,353 (2007: 979,153). The weighted average fair value of the LTIP awards during the period is 34.8 pence per share or £1.1 million 
in total (2007: 150.9 pence or £1.5 million).
The following table summarises the evolution of the Group’s DSP and LTIP awards during the period:
Number of shares outstanding     2006 2008 Total 
    DSP LTIP LTIP Shares 
At 1 January 2008    1,681,098 979,153 – 2,660,251
Granted    – 12,892 3,140,362 3,153,254
Lapsed through employee turnover    (659,159) (541,201) (355,853) (1,556,213)
Lapsed on vesting    (1,021,939) – – (1,021,939)
At 31 December 2008    – 450,844 2,784,509 3,235,353
    
    £m £m £m £m
At 1January 2008    0.4 0.2 – 0.6
Charged/(credited) to income     0.2 – 0.1 0.3
Credited to retained earnings    (0.6) – – (0.6)
At 31 December 2008    – 0.2 0.1 0.3
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    93 
27. Share-based payments continued
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £0.3 million (2007: £0.5 million), all of which related to 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge to the income statement was £0.2 million (2007: £0.5 
million). The weighted average remaining contractual life of share-based payment schemes outstanding at 31 December 2008 was 1.9 years 
(2007: 1.4 years).
Fair value assumptions
The fair value of shares awarded under the plans has been calculated using the market value of shares adjusted to take into account the 
TSR market based performance condition where applicable. The calculation has been performed using the stochastic pricing model. The 
assumptions made in performing the calculation for each award are listed below:
     
2008 DSP 2006 LTIP 2008 LTIP 2008 LTIP 
Grant date 27 Nov 27 Nov 12 May 29 May
 2006 2006 2008 2008
Number of participants 100 28 2 14
Performance period 2 years 3 years  3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 5.07% 4.97% 4.34% 5.08%
Stochastic model assumptions:   
  – Share price at grant date (pence) 188.75 188.75  45.0 45.5
  – Exercise price (pence) – – – –
  – Volatility 28.0% 28.0% 50% 50%
  – Expected dividend yield 2.5% 2.5% 9.33% 9.23%
Fair value of shares:    
 – TSR element (pence) 107.59 113.06 11.93 12.38
 – EPS element (pence) 188.75 188.75 33.89 34.40
Expected volatility for the grants is based on the historical volatility taking into account the expected vesting term for each grant. Awards of 
shares with no exercise price are not affected by the risk free rate of interest. In calculating the income statement charge in relation to the 
EPS element of the 2006 plans, an expected vesting percentage of nil % (2007: nil %) has been applied to the fair values. In relation to the EPS 
element of the 2008 LTIP plan, an expected vesting percentage of 100% has been applied. These vesting percentages have been calculated after 
taking into account expected staff retention rates and the probabilities attached to attainment of the performance condition.
The weighted average exercise price of all share-based payment schemes outstanding at December 2008 and 2007 was nil.
28. Share capital
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Authorised: 200 million ordinary shares of 5p each     10.0 10.0
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p      6.1 6.1
Number of shares in issue  
Beginning and end of year      122,440,375 122,440,375
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. There were no changes to the Group’s share capital during 
the year ended 31 December 2008.    
   94    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
29. Movements on reserves
 Share Merger Other Capital Hedging  Translation Retained
 premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Earnings 
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2007 84.5 93.5 93.1 0.1 0.5 (1.3) 20.5
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations – – – – – 9.4 –
Actuarial losses – – – – – – (0.7)
Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to reserves – – – – – – 0.6
Loss for the year – – – – – – (112.5)
Loss on interest rate cash flow hedges – – – – (1.7) – –
Transfer to income:       
Interest rate swaps – – – – (0.3) – –
Share option costs – – – 0.5 – – –
Dividends paid – – – – – – (7.0)
At 31 December 2007 84.5 93.5 93.1 0.6 (1.5) 8.1 (99.1)
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations – – – – – 52.7 –
Exchange gains transferred to profit 
on disposal of businesses – – – – – (6.1) –
Actuarial losses – – – – – – (5.9)
Deferred tax on items taken directly to reserves – – – – – – 2.9
Corporation tax on items taken directly to reserves – – – – – – (0.6)
Loss for the year – – – – – – (22.0)
Amount credited to equity on lapse of DSP 
share awards subject to TSR performance 
criteria (see note 27) – – – (0.6) – – 0.6
Loss on interest rate cash flow hedges – – – – (5.3) – –
Transfer to income:       
Interest rate swaps – – – – 0.3 – –
Share option costs – – – 0.3 – – –
Dividends paid – – – – – – (5.1)
Dividends paid to former parent company – – – – – – (0.5)
At 31 December 2008 84.5 93.5 93.1 0.3 (6.5)  54.7 (129.7)
On demerger, former parent company, BBA Aviation plc (“BBA”) waived loans owed to it by Fiberweb entities totalling £90.0 million and creating 
distributable reserves in Fiberweb plc. BBA also converted £87.4 million of debt to equity in Fiberweb plc. 
The merger reserve comprises the excess between the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of the transfer of subsidiaries and 
the book value of those subsidiary investments transferred. 
The other reserve comprises adjustments in respect of the Group reorganisation which took place as part of the demerger. This reserve 
primarily represents the difference between the capital structure of the Fiberweb entities that were owned directly by BBA prior to the 
demerger and the capital structure of Fiberweb plc and its subsidiaries after completion of the demerger restructuring. This reserve is not 
distributable. 
The capital reserve represents amounts accrued in respect of the cost of equity-settled share options in accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based 
Payments” (see note 27). 
The hedging reserve represents unrealised gains or losses on hedge instruments. 
The translation reserve represents the gains or losses on translation of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    95 
30. Minority interest
On 19 February 2008, the Group agreed to acquire a 65% interest in and invest initially US$2.5 million in a Chinese polyester spunbond 
fabric manufacturer, Fiberweb Hengguan (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited. The Group controls the day-to-day operations. Its 
partner, Tianjin Hengguan Nonwoven Company Limited, has contributed a combination of assets and cash in respect of its 35% share. As at 
31 December 2008, the Group had contributed £1.7 million in cash in exchange for 65% of the issued share capital of the subsidiary and the 
minority had contributed £0.1 million in cash and £0.5 million in assets. As at 31 December 2008 the Group is committed to a further cash 
investment of £0.5 million, which will be paid by the end of the first quarter 2009. The subsidiary is expected to commence trading in the first 
half of the year ended 31 December 2009.
       2008 
       £’m
At 1 January 2008       –
Cash received from minority       0.1
Assets received from minority       0.5
At 31 December 2008       0.6
31. Reconciliation of movements in total shareholders’ equity
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Total recognised income/(expense) for the year     16.0 (105.2)
Equity dividends paid to former parent company     (0.5) –
Equity dividends paid to shareholders      (5.1) (7.0)
Movement on reserve for share option costs     0.3 0.5
 Net movement in total shareholders’ equity for the year     10.7 (111.7)
 Total shareholders’ equity at beginning of year     185.3 297.0
Total shareholders’ equity at end of year      196.0 185.3
32. Cash flow from operating activities
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Operating loss from continuing operations      (15.4) (89.3)
Operating profit from discontinued operations     – 0.3
Share of profit from associates      (0.2) (0.2)
Loss from operations      (15.6) (89.2)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment     30.6 32.6
Amortisation of intangible assets      0.5 0.9
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment     0.1 0.6
Increase in provisions      2.6 0.6
Excess of pension scheme contributions over charge     (2.4) (2.6)
Share-based payments      0.3 0.5
Gain on disposal of investment (see note 33)     (3.0) –
Gain on disposal of businesses (see note 33)     (6.6) –
Goodwill impairment (see note 13)      – 46.7
Non-cash impairment and asset write-downs (see note 14)    33.9 43.5
Non-recurring inventory write-downs      0.5 5.8
Other non-cash non-recurring items      – (0.9)
Other non-cash items      0.4 (0.9)
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital     41.3 37.6
Decrease in working capital      17.7 2.4
Cash generated by operations      59.0 40.0
Income taxes paid      (3.1) (3.1)
Net cash from operating activities      55.9 36.9 96    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
33. Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 
Year ended 31 December 2008
(i) On 20 June 2008 the Group sold the entire issued share capital of its subsidiary Bidim to Mexcihem Amanco Holdings S.A. de C.V (“Mexichem”) 
for gross proceeds of BRL 55.5 million/£17.6 million. The Group also received US$4.8 million/£2.7 million in consideration for its agreement not 
to compete with Bidim in South America for a period of 42 months, which was satisfied by the assignment to the purchaser of certain obligations 
of the Group to Bidim. Bidim was neither a separate segment for the Group, nor material to the Group’s consolidated results and is therefore 
not a discontinued operation for the purposes of IFRS 5 “Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations”.
The net assets of Bidim at the date of disposal and at 31 December 2007 were as follows:
      20 June  31 December 
      2008 2007 
     Note £’m £’m
Property, plant and equipment     14 9.0 7.9
Intangible assets     13 0.1 0.1
Inventories      2.5 2.1
Trade receivables      3.0 3.3
Other receivables      2.0 1.2
Current tax liability      (0.7) (0.4)
Deferred tax liability     26 (0.2) (0.2)
Trade payables      (1.2) (0.6)
Other payables      (1.3) (0.7)
Cumulative translation reserve      (6.1) (4.9)
      7.1 7.8
Gain on disposal     5 6.6
Total consideration (net of disposal costs)      13.7
Satisfied by – Cash      13.7
The following table highlights Bidim’s contribution to the Group’s trading performance and cash flows in the period ended 20 June 2008 and 
in the year ended 31 December 2007:
      20 June  31 December  
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Sales      7.9 14.2
Underlying operating profit      0.4 1.3
Profit before tax      0.9 0.9
Net operating cash inflow      1.1 1.8
Cash outflow from investing activities      – (1.2)
Cash outflow from financing activities      – (0.1)
 
(ii) On 21 May 2008, the Group sold its 15% investment in SGN for US$7.3 million/£3.5 million. The Group recognised a gain on disposal of  
£3.0 million before tax of £0.7 million. Prior to the disposal, the Group received dividends of £0.8 million from SGN in respect of its share of 
prior period profits.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    97 
33. Disposal of subsidiary undertakings continued
Year ended 31 December 2007
(i) As referred to in note 9, on 25 May 2007 the Group disposed of its interests in Fiberweb Tenotex SAU and Fiberweb Holdings SLU and the 
trade and assets of Fiberweb Tecnofibra Srl and the Bethune hygiene wipes business within Fiberweb Inc. The results of these businesses 
have been classified as discontinued operations in these consolidated financial statements.
The net assets of the disposal Group at the date of disposal were as follows:
       25 May 
       2007 
      Note £’m
Property, plant and equipment      14 29.6
Intangible assets      13 0.1
Inventories       10.2
Trade receivables       14.5
Other receivables       0.7
Bank balances and cash       1.0
Retirement benefit obligation       (0.6)
Deferred tax liability      26 (0.5)
Trade payables       (7.2)
Other payables       (3.1)
External borrowings       (2.9)
Attributable goodwill      13 18.9
Cumulative translation reserve       0.9
       61.6
Loss on disposal      9 (20.9)
Total consideration (net of disposal costs)       40.7
Satisfied by – Cash       40.7
The impact of the disposal Group on the Group’s results in the current and prior periods is disclosed in note 3.
(ii) At the end of June 2007, the Group sold the fixed assets and working capital of its cotton bleaching business at Griswoldville, Massachusetts 
to Barnhardt Manufacturing Company. This activity was not material to the Group’s operations and, accordingly, this disposal was not classified 
as discontinued operations. The Group realised a loss on disposal of £0.8 million, which is included within Restructuring Costs as described 
in note 6. The net assets of the entity at the date of disposal were as follows:
       30 June 
       2007 
      Note £’m
Property, plant and equipment      14 1.3
Inventories       1.0
Trade payables       (0.2)
       2.1
Loss on disposal      5 (0.8)
Total consideration (net of disposal costs)       1.3
Satisfied by – Cash       1.3 98    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
34. Contingent liabilities
The Fiberweb business is party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business, including specific product 
liability and environmental claims in Fiberweb North America. Any liabilities are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance, reserves 
and third party indemnities.
The Directors do not currently anticipate that the outcome of the proceedings and claims set out above either individually, or in aggregate, will 
have a material adverse effect upon Fiberweb’s financial position.
35. Related party transactions
Transactions between Fiberweb plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. Details of transactions between Fiberweb and other related parties are detailed below.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate. 
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Short-term benefits      2.4 2.2
Post-employment benefits      0.2 0.2
Termination benefits      0.8 0.8
Share-based payments      0.3 0.5
      3.7 3.7
Amounts included in the above expense that are outstanding at 31 December 2008 are £0.4 million (2007: £0.7 million).
Other related party transactions
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Dividends paid to BBA       0.5 –
Net amounts owed by BBA   
  – tax indemnity (see note 18)      4.0 3.5
36. Subsidiary and associated undertakings
The detailed list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2008 is shown in note 3 to the Company 
Financial Statements.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    99 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Fiberweb 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Balance 
Sheet and the related notes 1 to 13. These parent company financial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set 
out therein.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements 
of Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the 
information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described 
as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report 
and the parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company 
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you 
whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
parent company financial statements. The information given in the 
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented the 
Business and Financial Review sections of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and 
other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 
as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.  
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not 
extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial 
statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant 
estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the parent company financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent 
company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2008;
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
•  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, England
24 February 2009
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF FIBERwEB PLC 100    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
      2008 2007 
     Note £’m £’m
Fixed assets   
Investments in subsidiaries     3 311.7 298.3
Property, plant and equipment     4 0.4 0.6
      312.1 298.9
   
Current assets   
Debtors     5 21.6 20.2
Cash at bank and in hand      7.2 1.9
Corporation tax      0.3 –
      29.1 22.1
   
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year   
Trade and other creditors     6 (3.5) (4.6)
Bank overdrafts      (3.4) (7.4)
Corporation tax      – (4.0)
      (6.9) (16.0)
   
Net current assets      22.2 6.1
   
Total assets less current liabilities      334.3 305.0
   
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year   
Bank loans     7 (156.5) (130.7)
NeT ASSeTS      177.8 174.3
   
CAPiTAL AND reSerVeS   
Called-up share capital     9 6.1 6.1
Share premium account     10 84.5 84.5
Capital reserve     11 0.3 0.6
Profit and loss account     12 86.9 83.1
     13 177.8 174.3
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 24 February 2009. They were signed on its behalf 
by:
Daniel Abrams
Director
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. 
Fiberweb plc reported a profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 of £8.4 million (2007: £0.8 million). 
The Company audit fee is included within the Group audit fee in the current year and cannot be separately identified.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
COMPANy BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2008     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    101 
1. Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical 
cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law and accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are set out below. They have all 
been applied consistently throughout the period.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in 
FRS1 “Cash Flow Statements” and has not produced a cash flow 
statement. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
contained in FRS8 “Related Party Transactions” and has not reported 
transactions with fellow Group undertakings. 
Changes in Accounting Policies
The company operates the groups share based payment schemes, 
details of which can be found in note 27 to the consolidated accounts. 
The company has followed the guidance set out in UITF 44 (Group 
and Treasury Share Transactions) where the Company issues shares 
in relation to share options granted to Directors and employees for 
services rendered to the Company’s subsidiaries. The Company 
records an additional investment in its subsidiaries by way of a capital 
contribution when issuing shares in relation to these share schemes.  
As a result of adopting UITF 44, the amount charged to the Company’s 
profit in the year ended 31 December 2008 in respect of share based 
payment schemes was £0.2 million (charged to Group profit: £0.3 
million) and the amount recorded as an additional investment was 
£0.1 million (Group: £nil). No adjustment has been made to restate 
2007 Company comparatives since the amount of £0.2 million is not 
material. 
Investments
Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at 
cost less provision for impairment. Given that Group Reconstruction 
Relief is available under section 132 of the Companies Act 1985 (“the 
Act”), the Company has taken advantage of the related option under 
section 133 (1) of the Act to record the cost of the investments in 
Terram and the US subsidiaries at the nominal value of the shares 
issued in satisfaction of the acquisition. 
Treasury
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at 
the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets  
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance  
sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that 
date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates 
subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the income 
statement. 
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for and presented 
under FRS26 (Revised) “Financial Instruments – Measurement” 
and FRS25 “Financial Instruments – Disclosure and Presentation”. 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the company comprise 
foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity 
derivatives. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes 
to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group 
in line with the Group’s risk management policies. All derivative 
instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. 
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends 
on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of 
exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of gains or losses on hedges is deferred in 
reserves until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the 
income statement. The ineffective portion of such gains and losses 
is recognised in the income statement immediately. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct 
issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the profit and 
loss account using the effective interest method and are added to 
the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not 
settled in the period in which they arise. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Share-based payments 
Fiberweb plc operates two share-based compensation plans which 
are detailed in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Under FRS 20 the equity-settled share-based payments under these 
schemes are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair 
value determined at the grant date is expensed within staff costs in 
the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period 
based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and 
adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The fair value of shares awarded under the plans has been calculated 
using the stochastic pricing model using the market value of shares 
adjusted to take into account market based performance conditions 
where applicable. 
The charge is adjusted each year to reflect the expected and actual 
level of vesting.
Tangible fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at cost. 
Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of property, plant 
and equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on 
a straight line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the 
assets:
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease
Office fixtures and equipment 3–5 years
Plant and equipment 10 years
NOTES TO THE COMPANy BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2008 102    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
1. Basis of accounting continued
Leases 
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights 
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as if 
they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are shown 
as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values of the assets 
are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the periods 
of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned. The capital 
elements of future leases are recorded as liabilities, while the interest 
elements are charged to the income statement over the period of the 
leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital 
payments outstanding. 
For all other leases (operating leases), the rental payments are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the 
lives of the leases. 
Pension and post-retirement benefits 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are 
charged as an expense as they fall due. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes 
into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities. In accordance with 
FRS 19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded 
that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities have not been discounted. 
2. Dividends
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a final 
dividend of 2.50 pence per share (2007: 2.50 pence per share) will 
be paid to shareholders on 27 May 2009. This dividend is subject 
to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in 
accordance with FRS 21, “Events after the Balance Sheet Date”, has 
not been recorded as a liability in these financial statements. The 
proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the Register of 
Members on 25 April 2009. The total estimated dividend payable is 
£3.0 million (2007: £3.0 million).
NOTES TO THE COMPANy BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2008 continued
3. Investments 
     Investment in Loans to 
     subsidiaries subsidiaries Total  
     £’m £’m £’m
Cost and carrying value   
As at 1 January 2008     3.2 295.1 298.3
Loans capitalised during the year     39.7 (39.7) –
Loans repaid in the period     – (22.9) (22.9)
Exchange gains     – 36.3 36.3
As at 31 December 2008     42.9 268.8 311.7     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    103 
3. Investments continued
The following is a list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2008, each of which is wholly-
owned unless otherwise stated. Subsidiaries marked * are owned directly by the company.
  Country of incorporation 
Name  and principal operation
Subsidiaries  
Fiberweb China Airlaid Company Limited  China
Fiberweb Hengguan (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited (owned 65%) China
Fiberweb France SAS  France
Fiberweb Holdings France SAS  France
Fiberweb Holdings Deutschland GmbH  Germany
Fiberweb Berlin GmbH  Germany
Fiberweb Corovin GmbH  Germany
Fiberweb Linotec Developments GmbH  Germany
Terram Geotextilien GmbH  Germany
Fiberweb Joint Venture Holdings GmbH  Germany
Fiberweb Blowitex GmbH  Germany
Fiberweb Asia Pacific Limited  Hong Kong
Fiberweb Italia SpA  Italy
Korma SpA  Italy
Tenotex SpA  Italy
Fiberweb de Mexico SA de CV  Mexico
Fiberweb Non Wovens Mexico SA de CV  Mexico
Fiberweb Veratec SA de CV  Mexico
Fiberweb Sweden AB  Sweden
Fiberweb Switzerland AG  Switzerland
Fiberweb Holdings Limited *  UK
Fiberweb US Holdings Limited *  UK
Terram Limited *  UK
Fiberweb Simpsonville Incorporated  USA
Fiberweb Washougal Incorporated  USA
Fiberweb Incorporated  USA
Fiberweb Industrial Textiles Incorporated  USA
Fiberweb USA Holdings Incorporated  USA
Fiberweb China Holdings BV  Netherlands
   
Associates and other investments  % owned  
Coratech GmbH 25.1 Germany
Coronor Composites GmbH 50  Germany
Advanced Design Concepts GmbH 50 Germany
Cordustex (Pty) Limited 10 South Africa   104    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
4. Property, plant and equipment
     Leasehold Fixtures &  
     improvements fittings Total 
     £’m £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January and 31 December 2008     0.2 0.6 0.8
Depreciation   
At 1 January 2008     0.1 0.1 0.2
Charged in the year     – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2008     0.1 0.2 0.3
Net book value at 31 December 2008     0.1 0.4 0.5
Net book value at 31 December 2007     0.1 0.5 0.6
5. Debtors
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings      20.8 19.6
Other debtors      – 0.1
Prepayments      0.1 0.1
Derivative financial instruments      0.6 0.4
VAT recoverable      0.1 –
      21.6 20.2
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings comprise management recharges, group insurance recharges and loan interest invoiced during 
the year.
6. Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Trade creditors      0.6 0.5
Accruals and deferred income      2.8 2.4
Other taxes and social security      0.1 0.1
Other creditors      – 1.6
      3.5 4.6
7. Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Bank loans – repayable between two and five years     157.1 131.6
Less: unamortised prepaid facility fees      (0.6) (0.9)
      156.5 130.7
NOTES TO THE COMPANy BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    105 
7. Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year continued
Since demerger, the Group’s primary source of funds is a $405 million (reduced from $439.5 million during the year) multi-currency, revolving 
credit facility (“RCF”) provided by a syndicate of several international banks, maturing in 2011. Borrowings under this facility are in Euro, US 
Dollars and Swedish Krona for maturities of up to six months. All amounts drawn down are at floating interest rates. The effective rates on 
borrowings are not materially different from their nominal interest rates. 
The RCF is guaranteed by a number of the Group’s trading entities in respect of the parent’s liabilities. 
At year end the Group had available $179.4 million (2007: $177.3 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
8. Share-based payments
Since demerger, Fiberweb has issued its own share-based payment compensation plans. These plans are explained in detail in note 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements. As a result of adopting UITF 44, the amount charged to the Company’s profit in the year ended 31 December 
2008 in respect of share based payment schemes was £0.2 million (charged to Group profit: £0.3 million) and the amount recorded as an 
additional investment was £0.1 million (Group: £nil). No adjustment has been made to restate 2007 Company comparatives since the amount 
of £0.2 million is not material. 
9. Called-up share capital
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
Authorised: 200 million ordinary shares of 5p each     10.0 10.0
 Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p     6.1 6.1
Number of shares in issue  
Beginning and end of year      122,440,375 122,440,375
There were no changes to the Company’s share capital during the year ended 31 December 2008.
10. Share premium account
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
As at 1 January and 31 December      84.5 84.5
11. Capital Reserve
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payments, equity settled share-based payments are credited to an equity reserve. The Company 
recognised a total expense, within staff costs, in relation to share-based payments under equity settled schemes of £0.3 million (2007: £0.5 
million).
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
At 1 January      0.6 –
Liability at 31 December 2006 reclassified from accruals on adoption of FRS 20   – 0.1 
Cost of share-based payments during the year     0.3 0.5
Share options lapsed       (0.6) –
At 31 December       0.3 0.6 106    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
12. Profit and loss account
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
At 1 January       83.1 89.3
Dividends paid      (5.1) (7.0)
Share options lapsed and deferred tax on options     0.5 –
Profit for the year      8.4 0.8
At 31 December      86.9 83.1
13. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
      2008 2007 
      £’m £’m
At 1 January       174.3 179.9
Profit for the year      8.4 0.8
Dividends paid      (5.1) (7.0)
(Reduction)/addition in capital reserves      (0.3) 0.6
Share options lapsed and deferred tax on options     0.5 –
At 31 December       177.8 174.3
Equity comprises share capital, share premium, capital reserve and retained earnings.
NOTES TO THE COMPANy BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2008 continued     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    107 
The Group was demerged from BBA Aviation plc in November 2006. Proforma results showing performance for the full years ended 31 
December 2006 and 2005, as if the Group had legally existed in its demerged form from 1 January 2005, have been presented below for the 
purposes of meaningful comparison.
   2008 2007
(1)
 2006
(1)
  2006 2005
   £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
results     
Revenue   512.8 473.6 499.9 584.7 603.3
     
Underlying profit from operations   18.8 13.8 27.1 27.5 47.9
Net finance costs   (9.8) (10.8) (14.5) (14.7) (14.6)
     
Underlying profit before tax   9.0 3.0 12.6 12.8 33.3
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items  (34.2) (103.1) (62.4) (97.1) (13.1)
Total (loss)/profit before tax   (25.2) (100.1) (49.8) (84.3) 20.2
     
(Loss)/profit attributable to the equity holders of Fiberweb plc (22.0) (112.5) (69.3) (69.3) 15.3
     
Assets employed     
Non-current assets   354.7 299.7 428.7 428.7 530.9
Current assets   191.1 173.3 216.7 216.7 222.9
Current liabilities   (126.0) (104.8) (95.9) (95.9) (356.0)
Non-current liabilities   (223.2) (182.9) (252.5) (252.5) (101.3)
Net assets   196.6 185.3 297.0 297.0 296.5
     
(Loss)/earnings per share   (18.0)p (76.3)p (35.3)p (56.5)p 12.5p
     
Adjusted
(2)
 earnings per share   7.4p 2.6p 5.1p 5.4p 19.3p
(1)
  Figures for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 are presented for continuing operations following the disposal of the Hygiene 
Wipes business in May 2007. 2006 figures are also shown as originally published (prior to restatement for discontinued operations) for direct 
comparison with 2005.
(2)
  Adjusted earnings per share is shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and other non-recurring items because the directors 
consider this gives a better indication of underlying performance. 
FOUR yEAR REvIEw 108    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Analysis of Shareholdings
Dividend re-investment plan
A scheme which allows you to use your dividend to buy further 
shares in Fiberweb plc
Capita IRG Trustees Limited are offering shareholders in Fiberweb 
plc the opportunity to participate in a Dividend Re-investment Plan 
(DRIP).
What is a Dividend Re-investment Plan (DRIP)
This is a plan that allows private shareholders to reinvest cash 
dividends from their investments cheaply and easily back into 
Fiberweb plc shares and so obtain the benefits of compounding.
How is the plan managed?
The plan is managed by administrator, Capita IRG Trustees Limited 
(CIRGT). They are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority.
On the dividend date, shareholders who join the plan are still paid the 
cash dividend, but CIRGT then uses the cash to buy shares in Fiberweb 
on behalf of the shareholder. Please note that CIRGT may not offer 
a DRIP for every dividend paid. If a DRIP is not made available, the 
shareholder will receive the cash dividend.
What are the benefits to shareholders?
•  You can increase your shareholding over the long term at lower 
dealing commission rates that are generally available through 
retail brokers; 
•  Compounding effect of increasing shareholding and dividend 
payments;
• Offers the protection of a regulated service;
•  An alternative for overseas shareholders in qualifying countries 
who may have difficulty cashing sterling dividend cheques due 
to high bank charges.
What price will the shares be bought at?
CIRGT instructs its broker to buy shares on the dividend payment at 
the current market price. Deals are aggregated for all shareholders. 
Shareholders will not be aware of the share price when they sign up 
for the DRIP.
What happens to any cash dividend left over?
Any cash dividend left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole 
share will be carried forward and held, without interest, in a Client 
Money bank account.
How much does the Plan cost?
The DRIP commission charged to the Shareholders is one per cent 
of the purchase price of the shares, with a minimum charge of £2.50 
plus SDRT, charged at the prevailing rate of the deal value (currently 
0.5%). Full details of all costs will be sent to you by CIRGT.
How do Shareholders apply?
Enclosed with this Annual Report is a reply paid post card which you 
should complete and return to Capita Registrars to enable them 
to send you further information together with a Form of Election. 
Alternatively you can contact the Registrars by telephone on 0871 
664 038* (if calling from overseas +44 (0) 208 639 3402) or e mail 
shares@capitaregistrars.com to request documentation. Please note 
that to participate in the Plan in respect of the 2008 final dividend 
payable on 27 May 2009, you must return your Form of Election to 
Capita Registrars by 1 May 2009. Forms of Election received after this 
date will be registered, but will not take effect until the next dividend 
payable.
Share Dealing Services
A quick and easy share dealing service is available to either buy or 
sell Fiberweb plc shares. An on-line and telephone dealing facility is 
available providing shareholders with an easy to access and simple 
to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, 
please contact www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing) or 0871 664 
0445* (telephone dealing).
Key dates
Financial Calendar
Dividend and interest payments: 
Final 2008 27 May 2009
Interim 2009 November 2009
Announcement of Group Results
Half year results August 2009
Share price information
The price of the Company’s shares is available from the Investor 
Relations section of the website at www.fiberweb.com 
Registered office
1 Victoria Villas, Richmond on Thames, London TW9 2GW.
Company number 05683352
Company registrar
Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park,
Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 OLA.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300*
E mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Web site: http://www.capitaregistrars.com
Please contact the registrars directly if you wish to advise a change of 
name, address, or dividend mandate. Alternatively, you can view up to 
date information and manage your shareholding through our Registrars’ 
Share Portal where you will be able to access and maintain your holding 
at your own convenience. You will require your unique investor code, 
which can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.  
The URL for the portal is www.capitashareportal.com
* calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras
  % of total Number % of
 Number of number of of shares share 
 shareholders shareholders held capital
Size of holding
Ordinary shareholdings at 31 December 2008
1 – 1,000 2,973 81.107 787,627 0.64
1,001 – 5,000 426 11.62 862,970 0.70
5,001 – 10,000 75 2.05 546,932 0.45
10,001 – 50,000 88 2.40 2,070,617 1.69
50,001 – 100,000 23 0.63 1,645,382 1.34
100,001 upwards 81 2.21 116,526,847 95.17
 3,666 100.00 122,440,375 100.00
 
Holders    
Individuals 3,115 84.97 17,632,115 14.40
Pension funds 12 0.33 10,801 0.01
Nominee and  
other Companies 532 14.51 104,650,260 85.47
Other 7 0.19 147,199 0.12
 3,666 100.00 122,440,375 100.00 Designed and produced by weber Shandwick Financial Design
Printed by Park Communications www.fiberweb.com
