 FIBERWEB PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
LEADING 
TAILORED 
INDUSTRIAL 
FABRIC 
SOLUTIONS
09 TM indicates a trade mark of Fiberweb plc or a Fiberweb Group company, many of which are registered in a number of 
countries around the world. 
Typar is a brand name for a specific family of fabrics sold primarily by Fiberweb in North and South America.
 This Annual Report includes statements that are forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking statements involve known 
and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or 
achievements of Fiberweb and the Group to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements 
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on 
the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Except as required by the Listing 
Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, Fiberweb undertakes no obligation to update or change 
any forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this document. OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    1
2 FINANCIAL RESULTS 
3 HIGHLIGHTS
4 OUR OPERATIONS AT A GLANCE
6 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
9 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
13 BUSINESS REVIEW
25 FINANCIAL REVIEW
36 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
38 FIBERWEB EXECUTIVE TEAM
39 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
47 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION   
 REPORT
53 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES    
 STATEMENT
54 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’   
 REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF   
 FIBERWEB PLC
55 CONSOLIDATED INCOME   
 STATEMENT
56 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF  
 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
57 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
58 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW   
 STATEMENT
59 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF   
 CHANGES IN EQUITY
60 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED   
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
100 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’   
 REPORT TO THE MEMBERS   
 OF FIBERWEB PLC
101 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
102 NOTES TO THE COMPANY   
 BALANCE SHEET
107 FOUR YEAR REVIEW
108 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Fiberweb is one of the world’s largest and leading suppliers of 
speciality industrial fabrics. Nonwoven materials developed, 
manufactured and marketed by Fiberweb are used in a wide 
variety of everyday products such as filters, baby diapers, 
construction products and feminine care. 
With vast experience in its field and a strong international 
presence, Fiberweb has long been regarded as a technological 
innovator with a strong portfolio of intellectual property and as 
a preferred partner for customers focused on high quality and 
reliable supply.
CONTENTS 2    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
£ millions (unless stated otherwise) 2009 2008 
Results from underlying
(1)
 operations:
Revenue 454.2 512.8
Underlying
(1)
 Operating Proﬁ t 23.1 18.8
Underlying
(1)
 Proﬁ t before Tax 11.1 9.0
Adjusted Earnings per Share
(2)
 9.7p 7.4p
Results after restructuring and 
other non-recurring items:
Operating Proﬁ t/(Loss)  5.9 (15.4)    
Basic Earnings/(Loss) per share  0.4p (18.0)p 
Net Debt 136.6 149.9
(1)  Underlying proﬁ t measures are before restructuring charges and other non-recurring 
items, as set out in the Consolidated Income Statement
(2) Adjusted to exclude restructuring charges and other non-recurring items as  described in    
     note 5
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Revenue
decreased by
11.4%
£512.8m
2008 2009
£454.2m
Underlying
(1)
 
Operating Proﬁ t
increased by
22.9%
£18.8m
2008 2009
£23.1m
Underlying
(1)
 
Proﬁ t
Before Tax
increased by
23.3%
£9.0m
2008 2009
£11.1m
Adjusted
 (2)
 
Earnings
Per Share
increased by
31.1%
7.4p
2008 2009
9.7p     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    3 
HIGHLIGHTS
Fifth consecutive half-year of improvement • 
 
in underlying
(1)
 
operating margin: H2 09 5.8%; H1 09 4.4% (FY09: 5.1%; 
FY08: 3.7%).
23% increase in underlying • 
(1)
 operating proﬁ t to £23.1 
million (2008: £18.8 million).
31% increase in adjusted earnings per share • of 9.7p 
(2008: 7.4p).
Second consecutive year of substantial working capital • 
reduction: inﬂ ow of £15.3 million (2008: £17.7 million).
Completion of the $200 million sales 50/50 FitesaFiberweb • 
Joint Venture bringing expansion to higher-growth South 
America and reinvestment in North America.
First full year of proﬁ tability from continuing operations • 
since 2005 at £5.9 million, marking the successful 
conclusion of major restructuring.
Final dividend maintained at 2.5p, • making a full year 
payment of 4.2p. 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
INDUSTRIAL 
OVERVIEW
 AMERICAS INDUSTRIAL 
2009 was a difficult year for 
volumes with the ongoing 
US recession. The business 
focused on efficiency 
improvement and innovation, 
with a significant reduction in 
working capital and exciting 
new products in graphic arts 
and roofing.
EUROPE INDUSTRIAL 
Following a weak 2008, 2009 
was a recovery year which 
saw operating margins almost 
double, despite extremely 
difficult markets, especially 
in house building and hence 
roofing. Cost reductions, new 
product launches and improved 
sales and marketing initiatives 
combined to deliver a strong 
result.
TERRAM Terram continued 
the recovery apparent since 
2007, with record output from 
its remaining production line 
in South Wales and progress in 
developing sales in the Middle 
East and Russia in particular . 
Late in H2, new needle-punch 
products were launched, 
extending the product range. 
THREE REGIONAL 
INDUSTRIAL 
BUSINESSES
TWO GLOBAL 
BUSINESSES 
SERVING 
THE HYGIENE 
INDUSTRY AND 
A NEW JV
46.3
43.6
10.0
0.1
50.6
35.2
9.5
4.7
REVENUE BY DIVISION
2009 %
2008 %
  AMERICAS   EUROPE   TERRAM
  BIDIM (disposed in June 2008)
80.2
9.5
10.3
75
14.5
10.5
REVENUE BY DIVISION
2009 %
2008 %
   CONSUMER FABRICS*
   CONSUMER FABRICS
   (contributed to FitesaFiberweb JV)
   AIRLAID
REVENUE £M
2009 £182.7m
2008 £187.6m
REVENUE £M
2009 £271.5m
2008 £325.2m
OUR OPERATIONS AT A GLANCE
Nonwovens markets tend to be regionally orientated because the bulk export of nonwoven materials over long 
distances is not generally logistically viable. Fiberweb has a presence in all major regions, concentrated primarily 
in North America and Europe. 
*Excluding businesses contributed to FitesaFiberweb JV
HYGIENE OVERVIEW
 CONSUMER FABRICS An 
eventful year, with high 
utilisation in the US offset by 
over-capacity in Europe and 
weak volumes in the first half. 
Second half improvement seen 
through recovering markets, 
the successful commissioning 
of the new Italian spunbond 
line, weakness at some 
competitors and initial benefits 
of the European restructuring 
programme. 
FITESAFIBERWEB JV The 
creation of this joint venture 
in July 2009 brings together 
two of Fiberweb’s facilities – in 
Washougal, US and Queretaro, 
Mexico – with Fitesa’s modern 
and well-invested facility at 
Gravatai in Southern Brazil 
to form a $200 million sales 
operation which gives Fiberweb 
excellent access to the fast-
growing and attractive South 
American market. 
AIRLAID For Fiberweb’s airlaid 
business in China 2009 was a 
disappointing year, with volume 
weakness. Success in bringing 
new products on-stream on line 
1 will underpin progress in 2010.       FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    5
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fiberweb produces top sheet, 
back sheet, leg cuff, core cover, 
acquisition distribution layer and 
fabrics for most other diaper 
applications. Our line of Eco-Fabrics, 
which feature the use of polymers 
that are not based on petroleum, is 
helping our customers to market 
more sustainable products.
BABY DIAPERS
Our unique apertured fabrics and 
acquisition distribution layers 
deliver dryer top sheets for 
feminine hygiene products.
FEMININE HYGIENE
Fiberweb manufactures advanced 
ﬁ ltration media under the well- 
established Reemay
TM
 brand for a 
variety of applications in ﬁ ltration, 
separation and absorption.
FILTRATION
North American consumers prefer 
to use impregnated fabric softener 
sheets in a tumble drier. Fiberweb is 
a leading supplier for this technically 
demanding application. 
FABRIC SOFTENER SHEETS
Fiberweb produces a broad range 
of products for adult incontinence 
applications including soft and light 
weight fabrics to improve comfort 
and reduce costs.
ADULT INCONTINENCE
Specialist manufacturer of 
geotextiles under leading brands 
such as Terram
TM
 used in a variety 
of applications including drainage, 
ﬁ ltration, separation and other 
industrial uses.
GEOSYNTHETICS
Long term guaranteed Biobarrier
TM
 
products are made of durable 
geotextile fabric with permanently 
attached nodules containing 
triﬂ uralin that prevent root tip 
cell division.
LANDSCAPE 
For residential and commercial 
applications nothing is proven to 
perform better than Fiberweb’s 
well known Typar
TM
 Weather 
Protection Systems.
HOUSEWRAP 
Fiberweb produces a diverse range 
of other products in packaging, 
shoes and home furnishing 
applications. 
INDUSTRIAL SPECIALITIES
Fiberweb offers nonwoven fabrics for 
conversion into medical products. 
Our line is engineered to deliver 
beneﬁ ts such as protection and 
stability and sterilisation. We recently 
added capacity to meet the needs for 
nonwoven face mask media.
MEDICAL PRODUCTS
Corotop
TM
, Typar
TM
roofwrap30, 
Surround
TM
 SR and Tekton
TM
are light 
weight, water resistant, polymeric 
roof underlayments that provide 
superior protection. Blowitex 
specialises in laminates and 
composites for niche applications.
ROOFING 
Fiberweb makes a multitude of 
top quality, high-performance 
products for graphic arts and 
general wipes applications.
INDUSTRIAL WIPES 
Fiberweb manufactures a diverse range of nonwoven products for the highly fragmented industrial market. 
We are one of the leading suppliers globally for pool & spa filtration under the well known Reemay
TM
 
brand. In the construction industry, our strong and established Typar
TM
/Tekton
TM
 and Terram
TM
 products 
are used in housewrap, roofing and geotextile applications. Fiberweb continues to provide superior quality 
products for more technically demanding and niche areas in fabric softener sheets and graphic arts. 
Fiberweb is a global leader in tailored nonwoven fabric solutions for the baby and adult care, feminine 
hygiene, medical and protective apparel segments.
The Consumer Fabrics business utilises its industry-leading technical resources and global manufacturing 
capabilities to meet the needs of our customers. We are helping our customers commercialise new 
products which are lighter, better fitting, more comfortable, and more aesthetic. The Airlaid business is 
developing products that have superior absorbent properties.
Fiberweb has a strong market position in many of
its product and application areas using a variety of 
leading manufacturing technologies, including 
several proprietary processes. The company 
has a strong global position with major 
operations in the Americas, Europe
and Asia.
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
FINANCIALLY, 
FIBERWEB 
SAW FURTHER 
PROGRESS DURING 
THE YEAR
2009 was another year of solid recovery 
for Fiberweb, despite steady increases 
in raw material prices from the low 
levels seen at the start of the year 
and the impact of severe recessions 
in many markets during the period.  
Financially, Fiberweb saw further 
progress during the year and brought 
the major restructuring programme 
begun at demerger in 2006 to a 
successful conclusion. The Company 
has improved its competitiveness and 
productivity through investment in 
leading technology as well as through 
cost reductions in many areas. The 
launch of an exciting joint venture in 
the Americas, FitesaFiberweb, has  
given Fiberweb access to growing 
hygiene markets in South America and 
allows investment in the USA without 
further straining our balance sheet.  
Finally, a number of important new 
products and initiatives were developed 
and launched that will reinforce the 
Company’s progress in the future.  
Financial Results
The ﬁ nancial results for 2009 overall 
are very encouraging in the context of 
the severe recessions in many of the 
Group’s markets and the high degree of 
uncertainty prevailing for much of the 
year. Continuing sales of £454.2 million, 
decreased by £132.4 million (23%) at 
constant currency, impacted both by 
the effect of lower raw material costs 
on sales prices and market declines 
in almost all sectors in the ﬁ rst half of 
the year, followed by a strong recovery 
in hygiene and some non-construction 
related markets during the second 
half. Continuing underlying operating 
proﬁ t of £23.1 million increased by 23% 
(+4% at constant currency), which was 
impressive in a year when volumes 
declined by 10%, impacted by both 
restructuring and recession. 
Net cash ﬂ ow from operating activities 
was strong for the second year at 
£50.6 million (2008: £55.9 million) 
as a result of improved margins and 
another signiﬁ cant and sustained 
reduction in working capital. Capital 
investment of £27.0 million (2008: £33.6 
million) was maintained at a high level 
to secure the right asset mix for the 
future. The return on invested capital of 
7.5% (2008: 5.4%), while substantially 
improved, remains below Fiberweb’s 
cost of capital and further improvement 
is a key objective for the years ahead. 
Net debt of £136.6 million (2008: £149.9 
million) has reduced overall by £13.3 
million as reported, while on a constant 
currency basis, net debt was stable. 
Key Events
During the year, Fiberweb continued 
to make signiﬁ cant progress in 
implementing the turnaround strategy 
laid out at the time of demerger, to 
the point that the major restructuring 
programme can now be regarded as 
complete. The portfolio of the Group 
changed markedly during the year 
with the creation in July 2009 of the 
FitesaFiberweb 50/50 joint venture 
with Petropar of Brazil. This venture 
accomplished several strategic goals.  
Firstly, Fiberweb is now active in the 
growing markets of South America 
from a very competitive site in Southern 
Brazil. Secondly, Fitesa’s independent  OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    7 
plan to invest in the USA will now be 
implemented together with Fiberweb 
on a Fiberweb site – reducing risk and 
cost. Finally, the JV enjoys very strong 
relationships with both major global 
branded customers as well as regional 
branded and private-label customers.  
In addition, Fiberweb acquired the 
outstanding 50% of the successful 
Coronor JV from Nordenia, focused 
on producing medical laminates at a 
Fiberweb site in Germany.  
The relative stability of the Hygiene 
business, comprising Airlaid and 
Consumer Fabrics, provided the Group 
with a degree of resilience during 
a period of almost unprecedented 
volatility. Volumes of these products, 
which are consumed overwhelmingly 
in the production of consumer staples 
such as baby diapers and sanitary 
towels, remained stable overall, 
with a fall of around 10% in the ﬁ rst 
half countered by a similar recovery 
in the second half as destocking 
by producers and retailers was 
reversed. Our production lines 
continued to be well-utilised overall.
Despite fairly stable demand, over-
capacity in Europe for consumer 
fabrics emerged as a number of 
new investments came on-line and 
many fabrics were further lightened, 
creating some price pressure. Thanks 
to recent investments by the Group, 
management was able to react ﬁ rmly 
with the announcement in January 
2009 of detailed plans to remove 
uncompetitive lines at Fiberweb sites 
in Sweden, Germany and France, 
coordinated with the commissioning 
of the new Italian spunbond line in 
mid-2009. These initiatives were all 
completed as planned during the year 
with the desired effect on margins and 
competitiveness.
The Industrial business was impacted 
to a much greater extent than 
Hygiene by the turmoil in many 
markets during the year, especially 
those serving the construction 
industry. The precipitate decline in 
house building in the USA continued 
and similar issues were experienced 
in Western European markets. In 
these challenging circumstances 
the performance of the Company’s 
Typar™ housewrap products in 
both US and Canadian markets 
demonstrated strong resilience, 
with market share held in both 
countries even while volumes fell 
dramatically. In Europe, rooﬁ ng 
products produced strong margins 
thanks to new product innovation and 
cost reduction. Filtration products 
had a strong year, demonstrating the 
resilience of a business largely based 
on replacement sales and beneﬁ ting 
from strong sales of specialist 
meltblown fabrics for face-mask 
applications in response to the swine 
ﬂ u epidemic during the year. New 
products for air ﬁ ltration applications 
were developed for both European 
and North American markets. In the 
UK, Terram continued the recovery 
apparent since 2007, with record 
output from its remaining production 
line in South Wales and progress in 
developing sales in the Middle East 
and Russia in particular.
The heavy restructuring undertaken 
since 2006 continued to bear fruit 
during 2009 and management 
implemented further cost reduction 
actions to improve the Company’s 
competitiveness. Investments were 
made in new technologies and 
production assets to improve product 
performance and to reduce waste and 
energy consumption, and programmes 
were launched to improve the 
information systems infrastructure of 
the Company. In line with its strategy, 
the Company has recently been 
evaluating a signiﬁ cant acquisition 
opportunity. The Company is no longer 
pursuing this opportunity.
Reﬁ nancing
Your Board was pleased to announce 
on 25 February 2010 that it had 
completed a reﬁ nancing of the 
Company’s primary debt instrument, 
a revolving credit facility, which has 
been in place since demerger and 
which was due to expire at the end of 
its ﬁ ve-year term in October 2011. In 
view of the difﬁ cult conditions in capital 
markets in recent times, the Company 
embarked on reﬁ nancing discussions 
with its banks well in advance of the 
latest practical date for reﬁ nancing, 
which would have been at the end of 
2010. The new, smaller facility, which 
comprises revolving credit facilities of 
$170 million and €110 million reﬂ ects 
the successful reduction of debt within 
the Group since demerger and matures 
on 31 July 2013 giving a term of nearly 
3½ years. 
2009 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF SOLID RECOVERY FOR 
FIBERWEB, DESPITE STEADY INCREASES IN RAW MATERIAL 
PRICES FROM THE LOW LEVELS SEEN AT THE START OF THE 
YEAR AND THE IMPACT OF SEVERE RECESSIONS IN MANY 
MARKETS DURING THE PERIOD. 8    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
Interest costs for the new facility are 
signiﬁ cantly more expensive, but 
are in line with prevailing market 
conditions, while the major covenants 
have been set at levels of 3.0x EBITDA 
gearing and 5.0x interest cover for 
the majority of the term of the facility, 
with more relaxed covenants during 
the initial period. This reﬁ nancing 
removes a signiﬁ cant uncertainty for 
the Group, provides a secure medium-
term funding base and reﬂ ects the 
conﬁ dence of the Group’s bankers 
in our much-improved performance. 
Further details are set out in the 
separate statement on the reﬁ nancing 
released on 25 February.
Dividends
Subject to approval by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting to be 
held on 29 April 2010, the directors 
recommend a ﬁ nal dividend of 2.50 
pence per share (2008: 2.50 pence). If 
approved, the dividend will be payable 
on 27 May 2010 to shareholders on the 
register on 23 April 2010.
The Board and Management
The Board has remained largely stable 
during the year, with the only change 
being the recruitment of an able and 
experienced non-executive director in 
Steve Dryden to replace Peter Hickman 
who retired at the end of the AGM in 
April. Steve is already contributing 
well and further strengthens both the 
commercial and ﬁ nancial expertise of 
the Board. Executive management of 
the Group has remained unchanged 
throughout the year.
Prospects
Fiberweb is continuing to follow the 
strategy laid out at its launch as an 
independent company in 2006. The 
continuing improvement in underlying 
operating margin and cash ﬂ ow seen 
throughout 2009, in difﬁ cult markets, is 
strong evidence that Fiberweb is on the 
right track.
The defensive nature of our Hygiene 
businesses, opportunities for 
consolidation and targeted investment 
as evidenced in the FitesaFiberweb 
joint venture and opportunities for 
further share gains in our Industrial 
businesses through product and 
channel innovation and through 
targeted acquisitions, provide a strong 
platform for further progress. The 
increased credibility of the Group, 
based on its steadily improving 
ﬁ nancial performance, will allow 
us to continue addressing these 
opportunities in the months and years 
to come.
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
4 March 2010
THE CREATION 
OF THE FITESA-
FIBERWEB JOINT 
VENTURE GIVES 
FIBERWEB EXCELLENT 
ACCESS TO THE 
FAST GROWING AND 
ATTRACTIVE 
SOUTH AMERICAN 
MARKET     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    9
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
2009 marked the last year of the major 
restructuring programme we have 
been driving over the last three years. 
The steady recovery in our ﬁ nancial 
performance, with the second half of 
2009 being the ﬁ fth consecutive half-
year of stable improvement in reported 
underlying operating proﬁ t and operating 
margin was especially welcome and 
notable in a year of considerable 
mayhem in the ﬁ nancial sector and deep 
recessionary conditions in many of our 
important markets.
The most important objective for 
the year was to continue building on 
the growth in underlying operating 
margin seen during 2008. The 4.4% 
achieved in the first half was followed 
by 5.8% in the strong second half, 
adding momentum to our efforts to 
improve pricing, reduce costs and 
most importantly in the longer-term, 
to launch attractive and differentiated 
new products at improved margins.
Financial Performance
Following the sales declines seen in 
recent years as a result of significant 
restructuring, 2009 saw a further 
decline. However, this was caused 
largely by the significant reduction 
in average raw material prices, 
which feeds through to sales with 
a lag of around 3 months, and the 
dramatic market conditions. The 
sales outturn of £454.2 million in 
2009 represents a decline of 10% 
in volumes and 16% in sales on 
a constant currency basis after 
adjusting for the impact of business 
disposals and the creation of the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture at the 
end of July, which removed the sales 
of two facilities from our reported 
turnover. 2009 full year underlying 
operating profits from continuing 
operations before restructuring costs 
and non-recurring items at £23.1 
million represents growth overall 
in both reported currency and at 
constant currency.  A solid first half 
was followed by a strong second half 
as pricing and restructuring actions 
demonstrated their effect and 
the first significant impact of new 
product sales from our revitalised 
sales and marketing programmes 
began to demonstrate a positive 
impact.
The loss before tax of £6.1 million 
(2008: loss of £25.2 million) reflects 
the much reduced restructuring 
charges associated with ongoing 
efforts to remove unviable assets and 
to improve productivity, regrettably 
involving job losses. The 2009 
restructuring charge of £15.8 million 
(2008: £43.2 million) comprises 
£13.4 million of fixed asset write-
downs and impairments, £0.3 million 
of other asset write-downs, £6.0 
million in cash expenses, largely 
for redundancy payments, offset by 
gains of £3.9 million on disposals of 
previously written-down production 
equipment at Terram, Simpsonville 
and AQF.
We saw further volatility in oil prices 
during 2009, with the very low levels 
reached at the end of 2008 feeding 
through into low raw material prices 
in early 2009. However, steady 
increases in both oil and polymers 
characterised the remainder of the 
year. We succeeded in designing a 
hedging programme that effectively 
mitigated a significant proportion 
of this volatility in the second half 
of the year, with hedges equivalent 
to the majority of the polypropylene 
demand of the European Industrial 
division. This programme helped us 
maintain more stable prices for our 
customers and stable margins, and 
we will be seeking to replicate and 
possibly extend these arrangements 
in the future.
THE STEADY
RECOVERY IN 
OUR FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE, 
WITH THE SECOND
HALF OF 2009 BEING
THE FIFTH CONSECUTIVE
HALF-YEAR OF STABLE 
IMPROVEMENT IN 
UNDERLYING OPERATING 
MARGIN, WAS 
NOTABLE IN A YEAR 
OF CONSIDERABLE
MAYHEM 10    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
Operating cash flow of £59.3 
million (2008: £62.7 million) before 
non-recurring cash costs of £8.7 
million (2008: £6.8 million) and 
asset divestment proceeds of £4.5 
million (2008: £17.2 million) funded 
capital investment of £27.0 million 
(2008: £33.6 million), net interest 
payments of £9.3 million (2008: £9.6 
million) and shareholder dividends 
of £5.1 million (2008: £5.1 million). 
Excellent improvement in the 
control of working capital produced 
another net inflow of £15.3 million 
(2008: £17.7 million), continuing 
the trend seen in 2008. Working 
capital as a percentage of sales, 
a metric management believes is 
crucial to the business, stabilised at 
15.4% (2008: 17.1%), reflecting tight 
controls and management focus.
Divisional Review
The simpler organisational structure 
of the Group, implemented in 
mid-2008, was validated by the 
strong performance seen in 2009 
in a difficult market environment. 
In addition, the creation of a global 
purchasing function in late-2008 
allowed improved control and risk 
management of the Group’s largest 
single cost. 
The major organisational 
development initiative in 2009 
was the completion of a strategic 
marketing training programme, 
developed together with Cranfield 
University, for a group of fifty 
senior sales, marketing and 
product development staff from 
across Fiberweb. The purpose of 
the programme was to improve 
our capabilities in identifying and 
analysing markets and customer 
needs and in translating these 
insights into improved processes 
for product development, sales and 
planning.
Industrial
All three regional industrial businesses, 
in the Americas, in Europe and Terram, 
saw weak markets, currency turmoil 
impacting their competitiveness and 
signiﬁ cant reductions in inventory 
through their customer supply 
chains. Despite these impacts and 
very signiﬁ cant market declines in 
many market segments related to the 
construction industry on both sides 
of the Atlantic, we managed to raise 
margins, launch new products and 
gain market share in many areas.
In the Americas Industrial division, 
2009 was a year of stable margins  
while battling continued depressed 
construction markets but with 
excellent performance in terms of 
working capital reduction. Sales of 
$128.4 million were down by 23% with 
operating margins of 5.7%, slightly 
up on prior year. Working capital was 
a particular focus, with inventory 
reduced by $3.4 million to $35.1 
million, as strenuous efforts were 
made to improve responsiveness and 
cash ﬂ ow. Also notable during the year 
were:
• Further efﬁ ciency gains in 
manufacturing and logistics;
• The successful launch of a new 
range of rooﬁ ng underlays – based 
on the very successful Typar
TM
 
housewrap product – to compete 
with traditional rooﬁ ng felt.  The new 
products perform better, are longer-
lasting and are signiﬁ cantly quicker 
and easier to lay, with lighter rolls, 
reducing the risks for roofers 
carrying materials up ladders to 
their workplace;
• The successful ﬁ rst major 
DefenCell™  production and sales, 
with enormous productivity gains as 
production was ramped-up; and
• The successful migration to new 
polyester polymers as the recession 
forced existing suppliers to reduce 
or halt production.
In the European Industrial division, 
2009 was a recovery year following 
a weak 2008, faced with extremely 
difﬁ cult markets, especially in house 
building and hence rooﬁ ng. Although 
sales decreased to €77.2 million 
(excluding the acquired Coronor sales), 
down 7%, margins almost doubled 
to 12.6%, up from 6.7% in 2008, in 
response to cost reductions, new 
product launches and improved sales 
and marketing initiatives resulting in:
• Strong growth in Linopore UV Plus 
– the leading polypropylene-based 
rooﬁ ng underlay component with 
enhanced UV stability;
• Strong growth in polyethylene 
nonwovens sales to the medical 
industry, based on the successful 
qualiﬁ cation of a novel polyethylene 
compound, developed together with 
a partner supplier; and
• Launch of several new rooﬁ ng 
underlay products aimed at niche 
markets for renovation; a market 
segment which, as predicted, 
remained more stable than new-build 
as the recession gathered force.
Revenue £182.7 million 
(2008: £187.6 million)
Margin growth 8.1%
(2008: 5.4%)
INDUSTRIAL
Nonwovens are used widely in many industrial 
markets. Fiberweb has a strong position in the 
construction industry, fabric softener sheet and 
graphic arts markets amongst others.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    11 
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Hygiene
2009 was an eventful year for both 
Fiberweb’s hygiene businesses.
In Consumer Fabrics, North America 
continued the strong recovery 
seen in 2008 with very high levels 
of utilisation for much of the year, 
despite an unexpected fall in volumes 
for premium branded products in the 
ﬁ rst quarter. Europe also suffered 
from over-capacity during the ﬁ rst 
half, but a combination of recovering 
markets, difﬁ culties suffered by 
some weakly-capitalised competitors 
and the initial beneﬁ ts of the major 
restructuring programme outlined 
early in 2009 and implemented during 
the year saw a marked improvement 
in margins. Overall in Consumer 
Fabrics, like-for-like volumes fell by 
9% with sales down 20% to £217.6 
million. Margins also fell from 4.9% 
to 4%, largely due to the impact of 
raw materials and price pressure in 
Europe.  Very low raw material prices 
at the start of the year supported 
margins initially, but then rose steadily 
from February onwards until the fourth 
quarter, putting pressure on margins, 
as expected. Strenuous efforts were 
made to improve efﬁ ciencies and to 
implement the closure of three less 
efﬁ cient spunbond lines in Europe 
with limited disruption to customers, 
as the new Italian spunbond line was 
commissioned around mid-year.
The major event of 2009 though was 
the creation of the FitesaFiberweb 
joint venture in the Americas. This 
exciting initiative brought together two 
of Fiberweb’s facilities – in Washougal, 
WA in the North-Western USA and in 
Queretaro, in central Mexico – with 
Fitesa’s modern and well-invested 
facility at Gravatai, near Porto Alegre in 
Southern Brazil, to create a business 
with sales of around $200 million from 
three sites and around 200 employees. 
FitesaFiberweb’s position will be 
further enhanced by the major new 
Our Hygiene business provides nonwoven fabrics 
to major consumer goods companies around the 
world for applications in diapers and feminine 
hygiene. These are produced using two principal 
methods: spunbond and airlaid.
HYGIENE
Revenue £271.5 million 
(2008: £325.2 million)
Margin growth 5.7%
(2008: 4.3%)
THE CREATION 
OF THE FITESA-
FIBERWEB JOINT 
VENTURE GIVES 
FIBERWEB EXCELLENT 
ACCESS TO THE 
FAST GROWING AND 
ATTRACTIVE 
SOUTH AMERICAN 
MARKET
Fitesa’s well-invested site near Porto Alegre 
in Southern Brazil is a highly competitive 
producer of polypropylene spunbond for the new 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture.
PERFORMANCE 12    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
The Industrial businesses will 
beneﬁ t from new products launched 
in ﬁ ltration, rooﬁ ng and specialist 
geo-textiles as well as in additional 
capacity for meltblown and agricultural 
fabrics. Cost reduction actions will 
beneﬁ t 2010, as will the investment 
in marketing skills and resources. 
However the current outlook in 
construction especially, remains 
uncertain.
Further debt reduction remains a 
priority. The medium-term target of net 
debt at 2x EBITDA announced in 2008 
remains in place, and we will strive to 
make progress in this direction while 
continuing the necessary programme 
of investment to improve Fiberweb’s 
competitiveness further. I believe we 
are in a robust position as we enter the 
Group’s next stage of development. 
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive
4 March 2010
spunbond investment currently under 
construction at Fiberweb’s site in 
Simpsonville, SC in the South-Eastern 
USA.  The formation of this JV is a 
major step forward in the necessary 
consolidation of the spunbond industry 
and gives Fiberweb excellent access 
to the fast-growing and attractive 
South American market as well as 
reducing the ﬁ nancial strain and 
risk of ﬁ nancing a new investment, 
required to service new products 
under development with major hygiene 
customers for the North American 
market.  Similarly, Fitesa gains access 
to the North American market, sharing 
the risk of a new investment, and will 
beneﬁ t from Fiberweb’s deep and 
long-standing relationships with major 
global hygiene customers.
In the Airlaid business, now only 
present in China, 2009 was a 
disappointing year. Signiﬁ cant volume 
weakness was apparent right from 
the start of the year and only began 
to improve in the fourth quarter. As a 
result, sales fell by 13.7% to RMB294 
million and margins halved to 4.8%. 
Faced with these difﬁ cult market 
conditions, caused by consumers 
choosing to trade down to less-
premium feminine care products, 
launching new products from our 
relatively new second line was 
extremely challenging. Success was 
only seen late in the year, and we have 
better expectations for the coming year 
based on the customer acceptance 
now slowly becoming apparent.
On the Industrial side of our Chinese 
business, managed by the same 
management team as Airlaid, 
differences with our partner in 
the small polyester nonwoven JV, 
Hengguan, that we entered into during 
2008, led us to acquire 100% control 
and to begin the relocation of the line 
to our main facility in Tianjin, north-
eastern China. The successful upgrade 
of the Hengguan line has now largely 
been completed and we look forward to 
establishing a stable business once the 
relocation is complete in late 2010.
Our People
During these challenging times it 
demands a great deal of commitment 
and loyalty from our employees 
to focus on serving customers 
and optimising performance. I am 
always impressed by the loyalty and 
determination shown by Fiberweb 
people around the globe. We beneﬁ ted 
during 2009 from targeted recruitment 
in several important areas, notably in 
technical and marketing functions. 
We have also continued to invest in 
training and development for both 
existing and new staff as we turn 
our attention increasingly to growth 
through innovation.
As ever, I would like to thank all 
Fiberweb employees for their 
commitment and creativity as we begin 
to emerge from the turnaround into 
a period of more normal growth and 
development in challenging markets.
Outlook
We expect Fiberweb’s performance 
to be resilient, despite the continuing 
challenges of the economic 
environment. Results will be impacted 
by continued high levels of volatility in 
both commodity pricing and exchange 
rates. 
The Hygiene businesses are expected 
to continue to beneﬁ t from fairly 
stable end-user demand, from the 
heavy restructuring completed in 
Europe during 2009 and from the 
major investments made in recent 
years. The FitesaFiberweb joint 
venture is also expected to make a 
material contribution to our improving 
performance during 2010.
WE EXPECT FIBERWEB’S PERFORMANCE TO 
BE RESILIENT, DESPITE THE CONTINUING 
CHALLENGES OF THE ECONOMIC 
ENVIRONMENT.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    13
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS 
REVIEW
The construction of the Research and 
Development Centre at Fiberweb’s Old 
Hickory, Tennessee, facility. The R&D 
Centre will expand the capabilities 
for spundbond research with a focus 
on the REEMAY™ and TYPAR™ 
technologies while incorporating
new advances in extrusion, ﬁ bre 
spinning and web-forming for 
our next generation of products.  BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
Our vision is evolving from being 
exclusively focused on nonwovens to 
becoming a leading global source of 
speciality technical fabric solutions 
as we succeed in adding value to 
nonwoven fabrics through a variety 
of processes which allow us, in 
partnership with customers, suppliers 
and other associates, to create 
products and solutions that offer 
outstanding value.
Our strategy is to create and sustain 
value for shareholders by exploiting 
and developing our strengths in 
conceiving, producing and applying 
technical fabrics, building on our deep 
knowledge of nonwoven fabrics.
We will continue the steady 
improvement in our ﬁ nancial 
performance of the past two years by:
• Investing in strong businesses 
with the potential for sustainable 
differentiation and good growth 
prospects;
• Closing or divesting weak 
businesses and assets that cannot 
earn sustainable returns.
We seek to drive proﬁ table growth and 
enhance our competitive position by:
• Identifying customer needs and 
deﬁ ning novel, better solutions;
• Enhancing our reputation for 
outstanding global service for 
customers;
• Improving cost competitiveness and 
operational efﬁ ciency on a global 
scale;
• Working with our suppliers to 
manage cost and risk in the supply 
base.
Our belief is that good prospects lie in 
exploiting Fiberweb’s strong technical, 
brand and market share positions 
in important segments of the large 
and growing market for technical 
fabrics, particularly in ﬁ ltration and 
speciality construction segments 
that reward technical differentiation, 
close customer contact, branding and 
innovation.
Vision and Strategy
Terram India JV
There are further industrial segments 
that offer good proﬁ t potential but 
enjoy lower growth or geographically-
limited markets, such as fabric 
softener sheets in North America. 
These can also offer attractive returns 
and will be developed within the 
market constraints. 
There are also attractive segments 
for Fiberweb within the hygiene 
market, where scale, manufacturing 
excellence and innovation can produce 
competitive advantage. In particular, 
Fiberweb has traditional strength in 
spunbond and speciality carded fabrics 
for baby diapers and in absorbent 
airlaid fabrics for feminine care 
applications, key market areas where 
reasonable returns are available to the 
best competitors.
In Gujarat, NW India, Fiberweb’s Indian partners 
are building a geotextiles plant which will include 
reconditioned specialist production equipment 
relocated from Terram’s primary UK site at Pontypool, 
South Wales. Fiberweb owns a 26% interest in the JV 
which is expected to begin operations by mid-2010.
14    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009      FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    15
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tailored nonwoven materials can provide 
highly effective ﬁ ltration media in a wide 
variety of applications.  
Fiberweb’s nonwoven materials have been 
customised for speciality ﬁ ltration applications 
such as the industrial ﬁ ltration of hot cooking 
oils during the frying of food products. In this 
application, our products are used to extend 
the service life of the cooking oil. Our speciality 
ﬁ ltration media removes food particles and 
other contaminates and meets the stringent 
requirements of the US FDA for food contact. 
During the development of this new 
product, we were able to leverage our broad 
capabilities in ﬁ bre material characterisation 
and processing to customise the properties 
of the nonwoven. Because of this core 
competency we were able to identify and 
select environmentally friendly raw materials 
such that the spent nonwoven along with the 
ﬁ lter cake can be used as a feed extender 
for livestock. Keeping an eye towards future 
growth opportunities, we created a unique 
ﬁ ltration fabric for this application that can 
be extended into other speciality ﬁ ltration 
markets.
customised products The nonwovens market is diverse with 
an extremely wide range of end ap-
plications. Regional penetration, com-
petition and potential growth can vary 
widely dependent on different product 
areas and different geographies.
The nonwovens industry has grown 
steadily over the last three decades as 
these materials are increasingly used 
as a substitute for woven textiles and 
as products containing nonwovens, 
notably disposable hygiene products, 
have gained increasing penetration in 
emerging market areas. Technological 
advancements allow nonwovens 
to be used in new applications by 
improvements in properties such as 
comfort, strength, ﬂ exibility, durability 
and permeability. 
Markets
Fiberweb operates in two main 
markets; hygiene and industrial. 
Hygiene markets continue to exhibit 
the overall stable medium-term 
growth we have seen in the past, 
although intense short-term market 
disruption to consumer behaviour, as 
seen in the ﬁ rst half of 2009 can lead 
to short-term volume declines of up to 
10%. The long-standing trend to lower 
basis weights (ie lighter fabrics) in 
response to rising raw material costs 
is expected to continue.
The industrial markets served by 
Fiberweb are varied and in most cases 
development has been as expected.  
The most difﬁ cult was undoubtedly the 
US residential construction market, 
with issues that have been well 
publicised. As a result of signiﬁ cant 
falls in new housing starts, market 
pressures have been considerable in 
housewrap and in construction-related 
areas of landscape fabrics and pool 
ﬁ ltration.  While measurements of 
market share are difﬁ cult, it is notable 
that we experienced much lower 
volume declines than the fall in overall 
market demand as represented by 
new housing starts. A similar demand 
trend was observed also in European 
housing markets, notably the UK and 
Spain. 
The industrial market is not only 
fragmented but the level of technical 
expertise and competition varies 
depending on the application. Key to 
success in the Industrial business is the 
ability to respond rapidly and effectively 
to customer needs for improving value 
and performance, often at short notice.
The hygiene market, where steady 3-5% 
medium term growth is anticipated, is 
characterised by a concentrated and 
sophisticated customer base. Large 
multinational customers maintain very 
high standards of product quality and 
performance and expect nothing less 
from their suppliers. Fiberweb supports 
this philosophy and strives to innovate 
and manufacture world class nonwoven 
products and deliver world class levels 
of value and service. 
Technological developments towards 
better value products, have continued 
to progress during 2009 and are 
expected to be maintained in the 
medium-term. The drive to improve 
fabric performance at lower weight – 
ie with the use of smaller quantities 
of polymer – continues to be the 
most signiﬁ cant trend. There are 
also moves amongst some hygiene 
product producers to examine the use 
of sustainable raw materials. These 
trends will impact Fiberweb’s hygiene 
business and our choice of technology 
and R&D investment, as lighter-weight 
fabrics demand more sophisticated 
equipment and control systems.
External factors
The extreme conditions at the end of 
2008 and the beginning of 2009 did 
cause a temporary and severe fall 
in the cost of polypropylene. Despite 
Our Markets and External Environment
16    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
Fiberweb’s speciality Reemay™ product has 
long been the market leader in the demanding 
market for pool/spa ﬁ lter applications.  
Fiberweb supplies a wide range of speciality 
cleaning products to printers with well-known 
specialist brands.     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    17 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
sales strength
Fiberweb employees in France, Germany 
and Italy are active today manufacturing 
high quality ﬁ lter media for use by 
converting companies to produce 
respiratory protection products and face 
masks.
The growing emphasis on combating 
the transmission of airborne infections 
is creating opportunities for Fiberweb to 
develop innovative new products to protect 
patients and health care professionals. 
Fiberweb’s advanced meltblown technology 
facilitates efﬁ cient production of face mask 
ﬁ lter media that meets European Standard 
EN149 type FFP2, retaining 94% of airborne 
particles at a given air ﬂ ow (recommended 
by the World Health Organisation, National 
Health Service and governmental agencies).  
Fiberweb’s plant near Milan (Terno d’Isola) 
has always produced the largest volume 
of respiratory ﬁ lter media, but given the 
explosion in demand during 2009 the 
company is doubling its overall capacity 
by making a signiﬁ cant investment at its 
operation in Biesheim, France. This capacity 
will be available in the ﬁ rst quarter of 2010 
and will enable the company to meet the 
growing requirements of governmental 
agencies, hospitals and businesses. Filter 
media from the new equipment will be used 
to make hundreds of millions of face masks 
that are stockpiled by various agencies 
throughout Europe and North Africa. this, the long term trend of increasing 
oil prices, and the knock on effect on 
polypropylene, did not ease during 
2009 and is expected to continue 
in the medium and long-term. This 
trend of price increases will feed 
through over time to our oil-derived 
polymeric raw materials such as 
polypropylene. The supply/demand 
balance for polypropylene also impacts 
the polymer price, and additions to 
polypropylene production capacity have 
recently come on-stream which are 
currently negatively impacting polymer 
prices. We manage this volatile 
situation through contractual pass-
through arrangements as well as ﬁ xed 
price contracts and ﬁ nancial hedging 
arrangements where appropriate.
Another key trend impacting 
Fiberweb’s hygiene business is 
the continued growth in emerging 
markets as the market penetration of 
disposable hygiene products continues 
to rise. This will impact Fiberweb’s 
geographic investment plans and 
potentially the choice of technology 
from lower-cost sources, as with the 
use of a Chinese contractor for the 
recent airlaid line project at Fiberweb’s 
site in China.
The long-term growth of nonwovens 
in industrial applications continues to 
appear to be secure, despite current 
negative pressures on volumes 
from the economic cycle.  Demands 
for higher water and air quality 
continue to drive growth in ﬁ ltration 
and demands for improved housing 
and infrastructure for much of the 
world’s population continue to drive 
the increased use of nonwovens in 
construction worldwide, both for 
housing and in the use of geo-textiles 
in infrastructure for example.
Competitive environment 
The competitive environment of the 
nonwovens industry is constantly 
changing, with technological 
innovations and the development 
of new markets and applications. 
Although Fiberweb is unique with its 
broad product portfolio and global 
presence, it faces competition at 
various levels depending on the 
application emphasising the need for 
continuing investment in research and 
the development of new products. 
There is a long-term trend towards 
consolidation in the nonwovens 
industry, as there can be advantages 
from scale, a broader geographic 
presence and a broader technology 
spread in meeting customer demands. 
Fiberweb has participated in this 
trend on occasion, but could also be 
negatively impacted if competitors 
consolidate to gain a scale advantage 
in areas such as polymer purchasing 
or relationships with global customers 
seeking global supplier partners.
INDUSTRIAL
Description of Business
In North America, Fiberweb operates 
in a number of areas in construction, 
ﬁ ltration, landscape, furniture and 
bedding, and specialities, with 
manufacturing sites located in the 
US at Old Hickory and Simpsonville. 
In construction, our major products 
are in housewrap, landscape and 
geotextile markets. 
We are the market leader in pool and 
spa ﬁ ltration under our strong brand 
Reemay™. In the fabric softener 
sheet market we have market leading 
technology and we also manufacture 
high performance products for use in the 
graphic arts industry, such as nil-scratch 
wipes and dampener covers.
Elixir® pre-saturated blanket cleaners, the 
latest addition to Fiberweb’s family of high 
performance blanket cleaning products, are 
available for all major sheet-fed, web and 
digital press models.
Fiberweb is a market leader in supporting 
farmers with competitive crop cover products 
which reduce frost and insect damage to 
growing crops.
18    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    19 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE
Fiberweb’s fabrics contribute to continuous 
improvement in the performance of baby 
diapers, with a high priority being given to 
offering solutions to reduce the environmental 
impact of these disposable products. 
leading ventures
FitesaFiberweb joint venture  
During 2009 we created a new 50/50 
joint venture with Brazilian nonwovens 
producer Fitesa. The new company, 
FitesaFiberweb, began trading on 1st 
August and will focus on the production 
and sale of Spunbond and SpunMelt 
nonwovens in North, Central and South 
America. FitesaFiberweb includes two 
plants previously owned by Fiberweb 
[Washougal (WA) and Queretaro 
(Mexico)] and one plant, Gravatai, 
previously owned by Fitesa.  
FitesaFiberweb is making a major 
investment in a new speciality spunbond 
line to be located at Fiberweb’s existing 
site at Simpsonville, South Carolina, 
USA. This line will be commissioned 
in the ﬁ rst quarter of 2011, will have 
meltblown and bicomponent capability 
and will complement Fiberweb and 
FitesaFiberweb’s existing R3 and R4 assets 
in Europe (Sweden, Germany and Italy), 
North and Central America (Washougal, 
USA and Mexico) and in Brazil. At the same 
time Fiberweb is investing in two additional 
meltblown beams to be added to the new 
spunbond line in Trezzano Rosa, Italy. This 
upgrade will also be commissioned in the 
ﬁ rst quarter of 2011.
Construction is proceeding apace on the new polypropylene 
spunbond line being installed by FitesaFiberweb at Fiberweb’s 
existing site at Simpsonville, SC.    
FitesaFiberweb joint venture plants are located at: 
Washougal (WA), Queretaro (Mexico) and Gravatai, Brazil.
The FitesaFiberweb facility 
at Gravatai, Brazil.  20   FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
We continue to invest resources to 
maintain and grow our position in this 
business. 
In the construction industry, Fiberweb’s 
Typar™ is a strong and well established 
brand for housewrap in North America 
and is the second largest brand. In Canada 
Typar™ is the leading market brand.
Reemay™ is recognised by many as an 
industry standard in ﬁ ltration markets, 
especially for pool and spa ﬁ ltration, 
and Fiberweb continues to work and 
improve the performance of these 
products to stay ahead of competition.  
Reemay™ is also used to make fabric 
softener sheets for the North American 
consumer market, an attractive niche 
area of application. 
Our Industrial business in Europe is 
less developed than in North America. 
It falls into three main segments: 
construction, ﬁ ltration and agriculture. 
In Europe, we focus on rooﬁ ng and 
speciality polyethylene-based fabrics. 
In the UK, our Terram™ business 
located in South Wales produces 
branded geotextiles which have a 
strong market position in the UK, 
as well as speciality geosynthetics 
and constructions for a variety of 
applications, including into the rail and 
defence industries.  
In Asia, the Group mainly sells small 
volumes of specialist Reemay™ 
ﬁ ltration fabrics and Typar™ for various 
construction applications, particularly 
in China. During 2009, Fiberweb 
bought out its minority partner in the 
Hengguan joint venture established 
in 2008 to manufacture industrial 
spunbond products.
HYGIENE
Description of Business
Fiberweb’s Hygiene business provides 
nonwoven fabrics to major consumer 
goods companies around the world for 
applications in diapers and feminine 
hygiene. These are produced using two 
principal methods: spunbond and airlaid. 
In North America, Fiberweb produces 
carded thermal bond material which 
is used principally for extensible ap-
plications such as ears and side panels 
in baby diapers, and spunbond and 
spunmelt materials as components for 
diapers and feminine care products. 
Our manufacturing sites are located 
in the US in Simpsonville and Green 
Bay. Our businesses at Washougal, US 
and in Mexico were contributed to the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture during 
the year. 
In Europe, we hold a market leading 
position as a result of continuous in-
vestment across manufacturing sites 
in France, Germany, Italy and Sweden. 
At our Chinese facility based in Tianjin, 
we produce advanced airlaid material 
for absorption and/or distribution of 
liquid for use in the manufacture of 
disposable feminine hygiene products.  
In Asia, Fiberweb is the largest airlaid 
roll goods producer, supplying most of 
the leading feminine care producers 
in the region as well as the European 
market.  
DefenCell™ is a value-added geotextile construction which provides excellent protection in a highly modular 
and easily transportable package.     
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED The well-recognised Typar™ housewrap has been 
further developed for specialist applications in 
hurricane-prone areas, in rooﬁ ng and in commercial 
construction, building on its leading performance 
and ease of use. 
Surround SR Underlayment provides a smart 
alternative to felt, creating a secondary water 
barrier that reduces the incidence of leaks 
caused by storm damage, wind-driven rain, ice 
dams and worn rooﬁ ng materials.
superior products
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Americas 
Industrial business group launched 
Surround™ SR, a new product targeted for 
the US and Canadian rooﬁ ng underlayment 
market. Surround™ SR leverages the high 
strength of  TYPAR™ nonwoven fabric with 
a Fiberweb proprietary polymer coating to 
produce a superior performing synthetic 
underlayment over the conventional asphalt 
based competition. This launch further 
extends Americas Industrial’s footprint into 
the construction building envelope market 
and provides a key growth area for the 
construction products business. 
The combined US and Canadian rooﬁ ng 
underlayment markets represent 
approximately $550 million in sales 
opportunity. The re-rooﬁ ng segment 
is greater than 80% of the rooﬁ ng 
underlayment market making it especially 
attractive to counter the highly cyclical new 
housing construction market.  Surround 
SR will have a positive impact on revenue 
and earnings growth in 2010 and provides 
an outstanding complement to our TYPAR™ 
Housewrap.        
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    21 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE The primary purpose of Fiberweb’s 
Research and Development 
department is to provide innovation 
to our customers by optimising the 
performance of existing products and 
processes, or developing new, more 
cost efﬁ cient solutions.
As the Asian region and China in 
particular continue to demonstrate 
growth, Fiberweb has strategically 
invested in signiﬁ cant opportunities 
within this dynamic region. Hence, in 
2009, signiﬁ cant emphasis was put on 
enhancing Fiberweb’s R&D capabilities 
in our Tianjin facility in China to focus 
on new product development, process 
improvements for our two airlaid 
lines, and managing growing technical 
requirements and developmental 
activities in the airlaid hygiene market 
sector. The beneﬁ t of this dedicated 
and focused approach is expected to 
result in the proportion of the revenue 
of our Asian business generated 
from new products increasing from 
approximately 12% in 2009 to 31% in 
2010.
For our Industrial businesses, R&D 
has developed several new products 
which are in ﬁ nal stages of testing 
and certiﬁ cation or early stages of 
commercialisation. Notably:
• For our European Industrial 
business, rooﬁ ng products 
with improved UV stability and 
nonwovens based on special types 
of polyethylene that provide superior 
softness and convertibility at our 
customers.
Research and Development
• For the Construction business in 
North America, roof underlayment 
substrates for the USA and 
Canadian markets. 
• For the Graphic Arts business, 
Elixir®, Fiberweb’s pre-saturated 
automatic blanket cleaner, has been 
redesigned to improve on-press 
performance and to meet low 
volatile compound requirements.
In Consumer Fabrics, focus has 
been given to developing innovative 
nonwovens with better softness 
and improved surface properties, 
extensibility, higher strength and 
absorbency which, in addition to 
sustainability are the key attributes 
that our hygiene customers are 
requesting.
Whereas R&D focuses on upstream 
product and process development, and 
important new platform technologies, 
Technical Services (“TS”) provides 
technical support to our customers 
locally. Being close to customers and 
their needs enables us to anticipate 
new market trends and is a key 
element of this function. The R&D 
and TS divisions work closely together 
and responsibility for these aspects of 
product and process development is 
co-ordinated between the respective 
R&D and TS departments in Europe, 
the US and Asia.
Overall, Fiberweb continues to invest 
signiﬁ cantly in these areas to maintain 
its leading market positions, the 
construction of a new R&D facility 
at our Old Hickory, Tennessee plant 
in particular being a signiﬁ cant 
milestone.
R&D FOCUSES 
ON UPSTREAM 
PRODUCT 
AND PROCESS 
DEVELOPMENT, 
AND IMPORTANT 
NEW PLATFORM 
TECHNOLOGIES.
Typar Matrix is a value-added geotextile-based 
modular ﬂ ood control and environmental 
protection system, offering high ﬂ exibility, 
low-weight and low-cost logistics and rapid 
assembly. 
22    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009      FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    23 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fiberweb continues to invest in R&D, the new 
facility at Old Hickory being one example.
expanding capabilities
The Research and Development Centre in 
Old Hickory, Tennessee is expected to be 
completed in September 2010.
In November 2009, Fiberweb announced 
the construction of a Research and 
Development Centre at Fiberweb’s Old 
Hickory, Tennessee, facility. Old Hickory is 
the headquarters of the Americas Industrial 
Division and is the production site for 
our REEMAY
TM
 and TYPAR
TM
 branded 
products. The R&D Centre will expand the 
capabilities for spundbond research with 
a focus on the REEMAY
TM
 and TYPAR
TM
 
technologies while incorporating new 
advances in extrusion, ﬁ bre spinning and 
web-forming for our next generation of 
products.  
Advances in ﬁ bre shapes, gradient and 
non-gradient composite structures, and 
bicomponent fabrics will support the 
expansion of nonwovens in industrial 
markets and improve nonwoven 
performance in existing markets globally. 
The R&D Centre will also provide extensive 
capabilities to work with our customers, 
designing unique products tailored specially 
for them and their customers, improving our 
value proposition in the market place.  Fiberweb continues to invest heavily in 
product innovation to ensure we continue to 
build on our strong position in the European 
construction market.  Several exciting 
new technologies have been launched 
on the market this past year, setting new 
benchmarks throughout the industry.
Plümo: 
Anticipating a potential downturn in new 
residential construction, Fiberweb took steps 
early on to develop Plümo, (German for 
“Duvet”) to address the needs of the growing 
and proﬁ table renovation/retroﬁ t market.  
Plümo is an innovative hybrid solution that 
integrates insulation performance, vapour 
permeability and weather protection all in 
one.  Recently launched at the Batimat fair in 
Paris, Plümo generated widespread interest 
for its broad range of applications, ability 
to overcome thermal bridges and provide 
additional insulation performance.
Variable VCL:
Also for the renovation market, this year 
Fiberweb launched its new “variable” 
Vapour Control Layer or “Smart” VCL, 
with tremendous success. The “Smart” 
VCL optimally adjusts its permeability to 
make use of the different moisture levels 
occurring in European summers and 
winters. During the renovation phase, the 
roof structure accumulates moisture, which 
if left unchecked, can damage the long term 
integrity of the entire roof system.  In cold, 
moist winters, the “Smart” VCL reduces 
its permeability to an SD value of between 
5 – 10m, thereby blocking moisture from 
entering and damaging the insulation space 
from within.  Conversely, in the hotter, dryer 
summer months, the SD value is reduced 
to 0.2 – 1m, thus increasing permeability 
to allow any trapped moisture in the roof 
structure to escape and dry out. The product 
is ideally positioned to beneﬁ t from the 
booming demand for higher insulation 
performance in the retroﬁ t market, but can 
also be installed in new constructions.
Bicotex: 
To meet the increased calls in the market for 
higher UV resistance, for example in façade 
applications, Fiberweb launched Bicotex, 
which combines the well known superior 
UV performance from polyethylene, with 
the competitive cost performance offered 
by polypropylene. Bicotex achieves this 
using an innovative bicomponent technology 
which combines both polymers into each 
individual ﬁ lament, thereby creating a 
uniform nonwoven spunbond made out of a 
polyethylene cladding and a polypropylene 
core.  Integrated with an innovative 
re-enforcement layer, Bicotex offers a 
robust, highly UV resistant membrane at 
a competitive cost and paves the way for 
further developments to follow.
Linopore UV Plus: 
The successful launch of Linopore UV 
Plus, completes a key milestone, making 
Fiberweb a fully vertically integrated player 
with the ability to manufacture all critical 
membrane components in-house. Linopore 
UV Plus is a functioning membrane, which 
uses a Fiberweb patented stretch technique 
to create a micro-porous vapour permeable 
ﬁ lm with performance that is second to 
none.  Not only does it set new benchmarks 
in the industry in terms of UV resistance, 
it can also be manufactured out of both 
polypropylene and polyethylene and can 
be produced in widths of up to 3.2 metres 
to support a wide range of applications.  
Furthermore the patented stretch technique 
has the potential to be modiﬁ ed to offer 
target vapour permeability levels according 
to speciﬁ c application requirements.  
Fiberweb’s range of “Europe Top” products 
are gradually being switched to become 
Linopore UV based, as are the product 
ranges of a growing number of competitors 
who acknowledge the superior performance 
that Linopore UV plus has to offer .
product innovation
24    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009      FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    25
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
FINANCIAL REVIEW
As explained fully in note 2, historically, the Group has published 
segment results based on the classiﬁ cation of reporting entities 
according to the principal market served by each operational site. 
Following the restructuring in 2008, trading results of individual 
entities are now managed and analysed according to the markets 
they serve. 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
2009   Unallocated Total
  Hygiene Industrial Corporate Continuing
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
External sales by origin 271.5 182.7 – 454.2
Underlying* operating profit 15.5 14.8 (7.2) 23.1
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items (17.6) 0.4 – (17.2)
Segment result (2.1) 15.2 (7.2) 5.9
      
Underlying* operating profit margin 5.7% 8.1% – 5.1%
Capital additions (cash outlay) 22.1 4.8 0.1 27.0
Depreciation & amortisation  21.5 8.3 0.2 30.0
2008   Unallocated Total 
  Hygiene Industrial Corporate Continuing
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
  Restated Restated Restated Restated
External sales by origin 325.2 187.6 – 512.8
Underlying* operating profit 14.0 10.1 (5.3) 18.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items (39.7) 6.2 (0.7) (34.2)
Segment result (25.7) 16.3 (6.0) (15.4)
      
Underlying* operating profit margin 4.3% 5.4% – 3.7%
Capital additions (cash outlay) 30.4 3.2 – 33.6
Depreciation & amortisation  23.2 7.7 0.2 31.1
2008   Unallocated Total
  Hygiene Industrial Corporate Continuing
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
External sales by origin 318.5 194.3 - 512.8
Underlying* operating profit 13.6 10.5 (5.3) 18.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items (39.7) 6.2 (0.7) (34.2)
Segment result (26.1) 16.7 (6.0) (15.4)
      
Underlying* operating profit margin 4.3% 5.4% - 3.7%
Capital additions (cash outlay) 30.4 3.2 - 33.6
Depreciation & amortisation  23.2 7.7 0.2 31.1
The table below shows 2008 results as historically analysed and originally reported based on the classiﬁ cation of reporting enti-
ties according to the principal markets they serve. 
* Underlying results are stated before restructuring costs and other non-recurring items as set out in note 5 to the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements. BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations 
decreased by 11.4% to £454.2 million 
(2008: £512.8 million). On a like-for-like 
basis (adjusting for business disposals 
and the impact of the disposal of 
the Group’s US Consumer Fabrics 
operation into the FitesaFiberweb joint 
venture) and at constant currency, 
sales of £426.1 million were 16% down 
against prior year . 
The Industrial division experienced 
an overall volume decline of 20%, 
primarily in the US as a result of 
the signiﬁ cant macro-economic 
inﬂ uences. Total European Industrial 
volumes fell by only 4% year on year. In 
revenue terms, total division sales fell 
by 15% overall to £182.7 million on a 
constant currency basis. 
The Hygiene division includes the 
Group’s global Consumer Fabrics 
businesses and Airlaid, which, 
following the closure of our site in 
Italy last year, is now only in China. 
Overall Hygiene volumes fell by 8% 
compared to 2008 after adjusting for 
the impact of the FitesaFiberweb JV, 
with sales down 9%. Year on year 
volume and revenue trends in the 
Consumer Fabrics operation are 
impacted negatively by the disposal of 
our Consumer Fabrics operations at 
Washougal, US and Queretaro, Mexico 
to the FitesaFiberweb JV. Like-for-like 
Consumer Fabrics sales of £217.6 
million were 20% down year on year 
on a constant currency basis, although 
volumes fell by only 9%. Airlaid 
volumes were 23% down year on year 
as a result of the closure of our Italian 
Airlaid facility in 2008, but only 3% 
down in China. China Airlaid sales 
were 14% down in constant currency.
The absolute fall in Hygiene sales 
revenues is disproportionate to the 
relative volume decreases as a result 
of the impact of the pass-through of 
raw material price changes. 2008 sales 
prices were inﬂ ated as we passed on 
the increasing oil prices during the 
year, whilst 2009 sales prices for the 
early part of the year reﬂ ected the low 
raw material price from the fourth 
quarter of 2008.
Underlying Operating Proﬁ t
Underlying operating proﬁ t increased 
by 23% from £18.8 million to £23.1 
million, while at constant currency, 
growth in underlying operating proﬁ t 
was 4%. Despite the pressures on 
absolute proﬁ ts, the Group is pleased 
to deliver its ﬁ fth consecutive half-
year period of growth in underlying 
operating margins, with second 
half return on sales of 5.8%, up 
from 4.4% in the ﬁ rst half. Full year 
underlying operating margin of 5.1% 
is an improvement of 140 basis points 
over the 3.7% for the year ended 31 
December 2008. 
Despite bearing the brunt of the Group’s 
exposure to the global slowdown, 
Industrial margins strengthened by 
270 basis points to 8.1% overall. US 
margins were slightly ahead of 2008 at 
5.7%, whilst strategic initiatives and a 
strengthened management team in the 
Group’s European Industrial division 
saw margins improve signiﬁ cantly from 
6.7% in 2008 to 12.6% in the current 
year . 
Hygiene margins strengthened by
140 basis points to 5.7%, although 
on a like-for-like Consumer Fabrics 
margin was down 90 basis points to 
4.0%, with a positive performance in 
the US, partially offsetting the impact 
of the over-capacity and pricing 
pressure in Europe. Margins in China 
Airlaid halved to 4.8%, affected by 
volume weakness.
Raw Materials
Raw material costs are a signiﬁ cant 
cost component representing 
approximately 50% of Group 
revenues. They are largely dictated 
by external factors including the 
oil price, from which propylene and 
polypropylene are derived, as well as 
demand and capacity issues. 
We started the year with low prices 
from the falls in the fourth quarter 
of 2008, which helped mitigate the 
impact of the volume decreases in 
the ﬁ rst quarter as the global crisis 
took hold. Since then, prices have 
steadily increased. 
REVENUE – CONTINUING OPERATIONS
DECREASED BY 11.4%
2009 £454.2m
2008 £512.8m
OPERATING MARGIN – GROUP
INCREASED BY 140 BASIS POINTS
2009 5.1%
2008 3.7%
REVENUE – INDUSTRIAL
DECREASED BY 2.6%
2009 £182.7m
2008 £187.6m
REVENUE – HYGIENE
DECREASED BY 16.5%
2009 £271.5m
2008 £325.2m
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
INCREASED BY 23%
2009 £23.1m
2008 £18.8m
26    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
OPERATING MARGIN – INDUSTRIAL
INCREASED BY 270 BASIS POINTS
2009 8.1%
2008 5.4%
OPERATING MARGIN – HYGIENE
INCREASED BY 140 BASIS POINTS
2009 5.7%
2008 4.3%     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    27
The Group enjoyed an estimated 
net beneﬁ t from the lower prices in 
the ﬁ rst half of £6.8 million, which 
went some way to mitigate the fall 
in volumes. As prices rose during 
the second half, this beneﬁ t has 
been eroded. The Group derived 
some protection from the adverse 
movement in the second half from 
hedging arrangements such that the 
overall net impact on the year was a 
net beneﬁ t of £3.1 million compared 
to the average prices in the fourth 
quarter of last year. 
Approximately 50% of revenues are 
subject to contractual pass-through 
arrangements, which provide a 
limited cash ﬂ ow beneﬁ t in a period 
of falling raw material prices. The 
Group seeks to hedge against 
signiﬁ cant variances in the price of 
its key raw materials on volumes 
that are not protected by contractual 
pass-through arrangements 
through a combination of ﬁ xed 
price contracts, global purchasing 
negotiations to leverage volume 
and hedging through appropriate 
commodity derivatives. 
Restructuring Costs and Non-
Recurring Items
Restructuring costs and 
non-recurring items fell to £17.2 
million (2008: £34.2 million), 
reﬂ ecting the completion of the 
post-demerger restructuring activity. 
Within the £17.2 million, the Group 
has recognised asset write-downs of 
£13.7 million and redundancy costs 
of £6.0 million, primarily in respect 
of the rationalisation of the Group’s 
production activities across its 
European Consumer Fabrics plants, 
which targeted a 30% reduction in 
the number of lines within the 
division, whilst securing a 50% 
increase in line capacity. 
The Group recognised proﬁ ts of £0.8 
million and £2.1 million respectively 
on its sale of a previously impaired 
production line in Terram to the 
Group’s new Indian joint venture 
partner and the sale of written-
down production equipment from 
the Group’s site in Simpsonville, US. 
In addition, we recorded a gain of 
£1.0 million to write-up previously 
impaired equipment at AQF to its net 
realisable value, having secured the 
sale of this equipment in January 
2010. 
In connection with the creation of 
the FitesaFiberweb joint venture 
in the second half, the Group has 
recognised a net loss of £1.4 million, 
comprising essentially the net 
difference between the Group’s share 
of the Washougal and Mexican 
assets contributed by Fiberweb into 
the new venture offset by the Group’s 
share of the fair value of assets 
contributed by its partner, Petropar, 
in respect of its Brazilian and US 
operations. More detailed information 
is provided in note 32.
We disposed of the Group’s 25.1% 
investment in CoraTech GmbH in 
June, for net cash proceeds of £0.7 
million, recognising a small gain on 
the disposal of £0.1 million. In 
April, effective 1 January 2009, 
we acquired the remaining 50% of 
Coronor Composites GmbH for a net 
cash cost of £1.1 million. Coronor 
contributed £10.4 million to the 
Group’s Industrial sales in the year 
and operating proﬁ t of £0.2 million.  
Cash Flow
The Group’s cash ﬂ ow from 
operations was £50.6 million (2008: 
£55.9 million). This favourable 
performance was attributable to 
both the improvements in operating 
margins and a second year of 
signiﬁ cant reduction in working 
capital, which has generated 
around 30% of the cash inﬂ ow from 
operations in both 2009 and 2008. 
Working capital, expressed as the 
ratio of trading working capital to 
revenue, improved to 15.4% (2008: 
17.1%), delivering a further cash 
inﬂ ow of £15.3 million in the year 
(2008: £17.7 million). A reduction in 
this crucial performance indicator 
of 380 basis points has now been 
achieved since the end of 2005 when 
the ratio was 19.2%. 
Signiﬁ cant improvements in working 
capital management have been 
made across all divisions in the Group 
and this has been achieved through 
a combination of better inventory 
management as well as a tighter 
control of payment terms. Historically 
the Group has not experienced 
signiﬁ cant bad debts due to the policy 
of taking out credit insurance 
for all but the largest customers.
Investment
Fixed asset additions of £27.0 
million (2008: £33.6 million) include 
£10.7 million in respect of the new 
R4 spunbond line in Italy, which 
was completed and successfully 
commissioned as planned in the ﬁ rst 
half of 2009. With a total capacity of 
18,000 tonnes, this new spunbond line 
materially advances our objective of 
increasing average line capacity by 
50% in European Hygiene to improve 
our competitive position. 
TRADE WORKING CAPITAL AS A 
PERCENTAGE OF ANNUALISED SALES
2009 15.4%
2008  17.1%
2007 17.9%
2006 18.9%
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REDUCTION IN RESTUCTURING COSTS 
AND NON-RECURRING ITEMS
2009 £17.2m
2008 £34.2m
OPERATING CASH FLOW
2009 £50.6m
2008 £55.9m BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Net Debt 
Net debt at the year end was £136.6 
million (2008: £149.9 million). 
Restated in constant currency, net 
debt at 31 December 2008 was 
£136.7 million. During the year, the 
Group benefited from £12.7 million of 
foreign exchange gains on net debt, 
as Sterling rallied against both the 
US Dollar and the Euro from the lows 
of the fourth quarter of 2008. 
The Group has set a target of 
reducing net debt to a maximum of 
two times EBITDA over the medium 
term. We intend to achieve this 
through improvements in operating 
cash flow as well as tight control of 
capital expenditure.   
During the year the Group drew 
down £4.2 million (2008: repaid 
£17.4 million) of the debt advanced 
under the Group’s Revolving Credit 
Facility. In the years since demerger, 
the Group has utilised the proceeds 
from divestment of businesses to 
pay down debt. 2009 marks the 
end of the major post-demerger 
restructuring programmes initiated 
in 2006. The Group has drawn 
down against the facility to fund 
reinvestment in new assets and 
business ventures. We will seek to 
continue to reduce borrowings where 
possible and without damaging 
the long term growth plans for the 
business.
Proﬁ t Before Tax 
After net ﬁ nance costs of £12.0 
million (2008: £11.5 million), Fiberweb 
generated underlying proﬁ t before 
tax from continuing operations of 
£11.1 million (2008: £9.0 million), an 
increase of 23%. 
The Group recorded a net tax credit 
for the year on underlying proﬁ ts of 
£0.8 million (2008: £nil). Excluding 
the credit of £4.0 million (2008: £2.9 
million) in respect of the partial 
recognition of a deferred tax asset in 
respect of US tax losses and other 
timing differences, the underlying tax 
charge was £3.2 million, representing 
an underlying effective tax rate of 29% 
(2008: 32%). The lower effective rate 
reﬂ ects the inclusion of the Group’s 
share of post-tax proﬁ ts from the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture, a beneﬁ t 
which is reﬂ ected in the Group’s 
reported earnings per share.
Review of Financial Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs)
We measure the achievement of 
our objectives through the use of 
qualitative assessments and through 
the monitoring of quantitative 
indicators, termed Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”). The seven KPIs 
listed below represent factors by 
reference to which the development, 
performance or position of the 
business can be measured effectively. 
We focus primarily on ﬁ nancial KPIs 
to measure progress in achieving the 
ﬁ nancial turnaround.
Continuing underlying operating 
margins have increased by 140 basis 
points to 5.1% from 3.7% last year. This 
reﬂ ects improvements in operating 
division trading performance, to offset 
the challenges of lower volumes and 
an increase of £1.9 million in central 
costs. The increase in central costs 
reﬂ ects an increase in the cost of 
share options (+£0.6 million), as well 
as the investment in sales & marketing 
development training for our senior 
sales and operational personnel at 
Cranﬁ eld University and in the Group’s 
global purchasing function – both of 
28    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NET DEBT STABLE AT
CONSTANT CURRENCY
2009 £136.6m
RESTATED AT 2009 
EXCHANGE RATES  
£136.7m
2008
2008
£149.9m
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM 
CONTINUING OPERATIONS INCREASED BY 23%
2009 £11.1m
2008 £9.0m
WE FOCUS 
PRIMARILY ON 
FINANCIAL KPIS 
TO MEASURE 
PROGRESS IN 
ACHIEVING THE 
FINANCIAL 
TURNAROUND. OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
which have returned notable beneﬁ ts 
in divisional operating performance 
during 2009.
Earnings growth was positive as a 
result of the margin improvement, 
with continuing adjusted EPS up at 
9.7 pence per share (2008: 7.4 pence 
per share), returning year on year 
growth of 31%. Excluding the deferred 
tax credit of £4.0 million (2008: £2.9 
million) in respect of US temporary 
differences, adjusted earnings per 
share were 6.5 pence (2008: 5.0 pence).
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 
increased from 5.4% to 7.5%. This is 
attributable to improving operating 
margins notwithstanding signiﬁ cant 
capital investment in upgrading plant 
technology. To take into account the 
extensive impact of the signiﬁ cant 
restructuring activity and asset write-
downs recognised by the Group in 
the immediate post-demerger years, 
the Group has historically considered 
Return on Invested Capital as the 
appropriate KPI, a measure which 
considered underlying operating 
proﬁ t from continuing operations 
against total net assets prior to 
impairment and excluding cash 
and non-interest bearing liabilities. 
Following completion of these major 
restructuring programmes, the 
directors believe that ROCE, deﬁ ned 
as underlying operating proﬁ t from 
continuing business in the last 12 
months against total equity and net 
debt, is now a more appropriate 
measure against which to monitor the 
Group’s improving performance.
At constant currency, Industrial 
revenue declined by 15%, which 
reﬂ ects the challenging trading 
conditions most notably in the US 
construction markets. Whilst revenues 
declined, underlying operating proﬁ t 
margins improved signiﬁ cantly to 8.1% 
from 5.4%, driven by a particularly 
strong performance in Europe, as well 
as a slight improvement in the US.
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    29 
Definition/
Description
Purpose 2009
Performance
2008
Performance
Financial KPIs
Operating margins Underlying operating profit 
from continuing businesses 
/ sales from continuing 
businesses
Measure progress in 
improving returns in 
an underperforming 
business
5.1% 3.7%
Earnings growth 
(adjusted EPS)
Increase in underlying 
earnings
Measure success in 
improving shareholder 
returns
31% 185%
Return on capital 
employed %
LTM underlying operating 
profit from continuing 
businesses/total equity and 
net debt (capital employed)
Measure success in 
improving returns on 
our assets
7.5% 5.4% Restated
Revenue growth in 
Industrial
Third party sales growth in 
Industrial
Measure growth in 
strategically important 
business
(15.4)% (3.4)%
Trade Working Capital 
as a percentage of 
annualised sales
Net inventories, trade 
receivables and trade 
payables/ continuing 
annualised sales adjusted 
for other disposals
Generating cash 
available for 
reinvestment or 
distribution
15.4% 17.1%
Operating cash flow Net cash flows from 
operating activities before 
investing and financing  
activities
Generating cash 
available for 
reinvestment or 
distribution
£50.6 million £55.9 million
Non-financial KPI
Recordable Injury 
Rates (RIR)
Number of recordable 
injuries/ number of hours 
worked x 200,000
Measure our success in 
ensuring a safe working 
environment
1.3 1.2 An important KPI in managing the 
operating cash of the business is 
trading working capital expressed 
as a percentage of annualised sales, 
which, at the year end was 15.4% 
(2007: 17.1%). £15.3 million or 30% 
(2008: £17.7 million and 32%) of the 
Group’s operating cash ﬂ ow was 
attributable to improved working 
capital management across both 
divisions. The Group continues to 
target reductions in working capital 
as a percentage of revenue, although 
future reductions are unlikely to be of 
the same magnitude given the notable 
reductions over the last two years.
Operating cash ﬂ ow, a critical measure, 
was £50.6 million (2008: £55.9 million). 
This strong cash performance is 
attributable both to improving operating 
margins and also to the improvement in 
working capital management.
Interest Charge and Borrowings 
Net ﬁ nance costs were £12.0 million 
(2008: £10.6 million). 2008 beneﬁ ted 
from dividend income of £0.8 million 
prior to the Group’s disposal of SGN 
and £0.9 million of interest income 
on deposits, neither of which was 
repeated during the current year . In 
view of the low returns now available on 
cash deposits, the Group’s focus is to 
minimise debt draw downs.  
The Group’s borrowings were mainly 
under the Revolving Credit Facility 
(“the original RCF”) provided by nine 
relationship banks under a ﬁ ve year 
loan facility which ends in October 
2011. The Group complied with the 
ﬁ nancial and non-ﬁ nancial covenants 
at the end of 2009 and continues to 
monitor actual and forecast compliance 
carefully.  
The two key ﬁ nancial covenants 
comprise a gearing covenant expressed 
as a ratio of continuing EBITDA to net 
debt and an interest cover covenant 
expressed as EBITDA to interest. The 
applicable covenants are a maximum 
of 2.75x for the gearing ratio and a 
minimum of 5.0x for the interest cover 
ratio as at 31 December 2009.
A new loan facility was entered 
into in February 2010 (“the new 
RCF”) which has a term of 3½ years 
until July 2013, for an amount of 
£205million, comprising multi-
currency facilities of €110 million 
and US$170 million. Interest rates 
are at prevailing market rates and 
are more expensive than under 
the  original RCF which was in 
place during 2009 and which was 
established at the time of the 
demerger in 2006. Similar covenants 
have been agreed, which include an 
EBITDA/net debt gearing covenant of 
3.0x and an interest cover covenant 
of 5.0x for the majority of the term 
of the new facility, with more relaxed 
covenants during the initial period. 
Covenant tests are required quarterly 
under the new facility compared to 
six-monthly under the original RCF. 
Taxation
A tax credit of £0.8 million (2008: 
£nil) on underlying operations 
includes partial recognition of US 
deferred tax of £4.0 million (2008: 
£2.9 million). Excluding the deferred 
tax credit the tax charge is £3.2 
million (2008: £2.9 million) which 
represents an underlying tax rate 
of 29% (2008: 32%). The partial 
recognition of the deferred tax 
assets in the US follows the second 
proﬁ table year in the US since 
demerger, with forecast proﬁ tability 
now underpinning the Group’s ability 
to beneﬁ t from brought forward tax 
losses as we move ahead. 
Cash Flow, Net Debt and Liquidity 
Net cash from operating activities 
was £50.6 million (2008: £55.9 
million). The net cash inﬂ ow in the 
year was £3.7 million (2008: £7.0 
million), after £27.0 million of capital 
expenditure (2008: £33.6 million), 
£9.3 million of net interest payments 
(2008: £9.6 million) and shareholder 
dividends of £5.1 million (2008: £5.1 
million). 
The net cash inﬂ ow on the sale of 
businesses was £0.7 million in respect 
of CoraTech GmbH (2008: £17.2 
million/Bidim) and the Group received 
£3.8 million (2008: £nil) in proceeds 
from the sale of previously impaired 
production equipment from Terram and 
Simpsonville. 
The Group invested £12.4 million 
in respect of joint venture and 
associated undertakings, comprising 
£11.1 million in respect of the cash 
contribution to and transaction costs 
for the FitesaFiberweb JV, £0.8 
million to invest in 26% of the share 
capital of Indian associate Terram 
Geosynthetics Private Limited and 
£0.5 million in respect of the ﬁ rst 
payment to buy out the minority 
partner in Hengguan. The Group also 
paid a net £1.1 million to acquire 
the remaining 50% of Coronor at the 
beginning of the year. 
Cash from operating activities 
beneﬁ ted from an inﬂ ow of £15.3 
million in respect of reduced working 
capital (2008: £17.7 million). 
Treasury 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its 
interest exposure and it has entered into 
interest rate hedges for its exposure 
to both US Dollar and Euro ﬂ oating 
interest rates under the RCF. These 
interest hedges account for more than 
70% of the debt under the RCF.
The Group can consider hedging a 
proportion of the translation risk 
relating to earnings when this appears 
to be advantageous. There is limited 
transactional exposure as there is 
relatively little trading across currency 
borders. The bulk of raw material 
sourcing and other purchases are in 
the currency of operation, and the total 
volume of the Group’s business which is 
30    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED affected by relative currency movements 
is less than 10% of its turnover . It is the 
Group’s policy to hedge those exposures 
which are material for a period of up to 
12 months, using a speciﬁ ed range of 
ﬁ nancial instruments. Refer to note 22 
of the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 
for more information on the Group’s 
foreign currency risk. 
The Group seeks to match the same 
proportional allocation between US 
Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona of debt 
drawn down under the RCF as applies 
between the net operating assets and 
EBITDA of the trading subsidiaries de-
nominated in similar trading currencies.  
Table of Exchange Rates
   2009 2008
USD Average 1.55 1.85
  Year end 1.62 1.44
Euro Average 1.12 1.26
  Year end 1.13 1.03
Credit Risk
The Group has a history of limited 
bad debts and it is believed its major 
customers are of good credit quality. 
Credit insurance is used in most 
markets. However, the inevitable 
consequence of a severe recessionary 
environment with rapidly deteriorating 
conditions for the availability of 
credit means that the Group will 
increasingly assume balance sheet 
risk for some trading customers 
for whom credit insurance is either 
restricted or unavailable. The Group 
adopts a prudent policy for reviewing 
and advancing credit and for ensuring 
adequate provision for bad debts. Refer 
to note 17 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further information in 
respect of the Group’s credit risk.
Shareholder Fund Movements
Shareholder funds were created 
upon demerger from BBA. The Group 
has equity of £172.6 million (2008: 
£196.6 million). Of these reserves, 
£82.7 million (2008: £86.9 million) are 
distributable reserves.
Retirement Beneﬁ ts
The major retirement beneﬁ ts or 
pension schemes are now deﬁ ned 
contribution schemes, with the 
two most notable exceptions 
described more fully in note 24 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Simpsonville, North Carolina 
scheme is now closed to new entrants 
and beneﬁ ts are frozen to current 
members; the Washougal, Washington 
scheme is a relatively small deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t scheme, and beneﬁ ts were 
frozen to current members when 
the business and employees were 
transferred to FitesaFiberweb in July 
2009. The Group retains responsibility 
for the scheme deﬁ cit as at the point 
of transfer.
The net pension liability is calculated 
by the Group’s actuaries, and 
is based on the fair value of the 
schemes’ assets and the present 
value of the schemes’ liabilities. This 
net liability decreased by £0.6 million 
during the year to £34.9 million 
(2008: £35.5 million), with exchange 
gains of £4.2 million offsetting 
actuarial losses of £4.9 million. 
Contributions paid totalled £3.7 
million (2008: £3.5 million), including 
£0.5 million paid out to employees 
on the closure of the Korma facility 
announced last year. The Group 
expects to make cash contributions 
of £3.0 million in 2010. Non-cash 
net interest on pension liabilities 
was £2.3 million (£0.9 million), the 
increase reflecting lower asset 
yields in the current macroeconomic 
environment.
Principal Accounting Policies
The accounting policies used to 
prepare the Consolidated Financial 
Statements are set out in detail in note 
2 on pages 60 to 65.
Principal Risks & Uncertainties
The following are the most signiﬁ cant 
risks identiﬁ ed by the Board and 
management:
1. Raw material costs
Raw materials represent the single 
most important input for the Group’s 
production, representing approximately 
50% of sales. Although there are a 
variety of raw materials used by the 
Group, the key raw materials are 
polypropylene and polyester. The prices 
of polypropylene and polyester are 
volatile and depend primarily on the 
price of crude oil and monomer and 
polymer manufacturing capacity and 
demand. 
Historically, increases in the price of 
polypropylene in particular have put 
pressure on the Group’s margins. 
The Group is subject to contractual 
pass-through arrangements on 
approximately 50% of revenues 
whereby polypropylene price increases 
or decreases are passed on to its 
customers. These pass-through 
arrangements are generally subject 
to a time lag of up to three months. 
There is therefore a material exposure 
to movements in raw material prices. 
Signiﬁ cant increases in raw material 
prices that cannot be passed on to 
customers could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s results 
and ﬁ nancial condition.
The Group can mitigate some of this risk 
through pass-through arrangements 
with some customers for polypropylene 
cost changes, selective hedging of 
polypropylene purchases and strategic 
alliances with polypropylene producers.
2. Customer and supplier dependency
Across certain markets in which the 
Group operates there is a high degree 
of dependency on maintaining good 
relationships with a relatively small 
number of key customers. The failure 
of the Group and its key customers 
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    31
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
to renew contracts could result in a 
signiﬁ cant reduction in the demand 
for its products. This is particularly 
the case for Procter & Gamble 
which, through a large number of 
different contracts and purchasing 
arrangements of varying durations, 
accounted for approximately 23% 
of sales in 2009. In terms of overall 
concentration, the Group’s top ten 
customers accounted for 42% of sales 
in 2009.  The failure of one or more of 
these key customers could therefore 
have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s reputation, business, results 
of operations and overall ﬁ nancial 
condition. 
The Group has procedures in place 
to monitor and mitigate this risk 
and, historically, has been generally 
successful in agreeing new contracts 
with key customers or extending 
existing contracts. The Group 
continues to manage the Procter & 
Gamble relationship very closely.
Similar dependency arises in respect 
of maintaining regular supplies of 
polypropylene and other resins and 
ﬁ bres. The Group is reliant on a small 
number of critical suppliers in the 
global market and several of these 
have been adversely impacted by a 
combination of rapidly falling raw 
material prices and demand during 
2008 and 2009, as well as the incidence 
of increased capacity coming on stream 
in the Middle East and Asia. Given 
the limited alternative suppliers, a 
disruption in the supply chain could 
lead to the Group being unable to 
satisfy the needs of its customers. 
The failure of one or more of the 
Group’s key suppliers could therefore 
have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s reputation, business, results 
of operations and overall ﬁ nancial 
condition. The Group seeks to mitigate 
this risk through diversity of supply and 
by negotiating Group wide contracts.
The Group is also reliant on one 
specialist supplier, Reifenhäuser Reicoﬁ l 
GmbH & Co. KG (“Reifenhäuser”), 
for their manufacturing lines. The 
manufacturing lines are typically made 
to order and components would not be 
easily replaced should the supplier fail 
to deliver the products. The bankruptcy 
of, or a dispute with, Reifenhäuser could 
therefore lead to a signiﬁ cant disruption 
to the Group’s business.
3. Economics, market and trading condi-
tions
Group sales, expenses and operating 
results could vary signiﬁ cantly from 
period to period as a result of a 
variety of factors, some of which are 
outside the Group’s control. These 
factors include general economic 
conditions, conditions speciﬁ c to the 
market and conditions speciﬁ c to the 
Group. A negative change in economic 
conditions in the Group’s customer 
markets, including, for example, a 
downturn in the Canadian housing 
market, deterioration in consumer 
conﬁ dence or new products and 
processes entering the Group’s market 
place, could adversely impact the 
Group’s business. 
In addition, signiﬁ cant increases in 
energy costs, the cost of transport 
and distribution and employment 
costs in the locations where the 
Group’s manufacturing sites are 
based could adversely impact the 
proﬁ tability of the Group.
Signiﬁ cant ﬂ uctuations in foreign 
currency exchange rates can have 
a material impact on the Group’s 
business, results of operations and 
overall ﬁ nancial position. The Group 
operates globally, with the majority 
of its revenues earned outside the 
UK and with signiﬁ cant investments 
around the world. As a result, 
the Group is subject to currency 
translation risk due to movements 
between various currencies (mainly 
the US Dollar and the Euro) and 
its reporting currency, Sterling. In 
addition, the majority of the revenues 
of one of the FitesaFiberweb joint 
venture companies, Fitesa Brazil, are 
in Brazilian Reals and a signiﬁ cant 
proportion of its debt is denominated 
in US Dollars. The Real has over many 
years displayed signiﬁ cant volatility 
against both the US Dollar and 
Sterling. In order to reduce the effect 
of foreign exchange movements on its 
reported earnings, the Group borrows, 
where commercially appropriate, 
in the currencies of its operations, 
thus creating a natural hedge for a 
proportion of its balance sheet. The 
Group also enters into derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments in currencies 
that partially hedge its net investment 
values. The Group does not undertake 
speculative treasury transactions.
4.  Financial covenants
The Group has ﬁ nancial covenants 
relating to its main source of long-
term funding as set out in note 21 of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and as discussed in the Directors’ 
Report on page 40. The Group expects 
to comply with these covenants. In the 
event that forecast proﬁ tability is not 
achieved, the continued need to comply 
with these covenants could restrict the 
operational ﬂ exibility and management 
decisions of the Group. There is also 
a risk that the Group’s long-term 
funding would need to be renegotiated 
with its debt-providers to ensure the 
continued operations of the Group and 
there could be no guarantee that such 
a renegotiation would be possible on 
commercially acceptable terms or that 
the Group would be able to successfully 
re-ﬁ nance the relevant debt. 
The Group manages compliance 
with these covenants through careful 
monitoring of operating performance 
and cash ﬂ ows, regular forecasts 
of future performance and tight 
management of capital expenditure. 
5. Competition
The Group faces competition from 
global competitors that provide similar 
products to those offered by the 
Group.  Competition in the industry 
is based upon: range and quality of 
products offered; the ability to deliver 
new products; geographical reach; 
reputation; price; and customer 
relationships.  The hygiene market is 
characterised by large customers and 
32    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    33
some production over-capacity with the 
result that there is strong competition 
to secure contracts with these large 
customers.  While these risks have not 
changed in nature over recent periods, 
prices and demand in the Group’s 
markets could be negatively affected 
if existing competitors increase their 
supply, or if new competitors enter 
the market with new products and/
or favourable cost structures, or if 
important customers reduce demand 
or request signiﬁ cantly reduced prices.  
In response to a changing competitive 
environment, the Group may need from 
time to time to make certain pricing, 
service or marketing decisions that 
could have an adverse effect on its 
sales, results of operations and overall 
ﬁ nancial condition.
This risk is mitigated by the actions 
described at 2 above. 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Fiberweb endeavours to act in a 
socially responsible manner in all it 
does. Our businesses apply procedures 
appropriate to and compliant with local 
laws and operating conditions. In all our 
activities, we strive to ensure employee 
safety, and seek to protect the 
environment, public and occupational 
health, and the community within which 
we operate, while promoting proﬁ tability 
and business growth. Training and 
development opportunities and 
initiatives are provided to employees to 
develop and foster the skills, resources 
and knowledge they need to improve 
our business performance in this 
important area.
Policies and procedures have been 
established at Group level which 
provide a guiding framework for our 
businesses to apply in conjunction with 
local practices. These include policies 
on ethical business practices, anti-
trust, equal opportunities and anti-
harassment guidelines, and disability, 
amongst others. Our Market Abuse 
and Inside Information Policies govern 
behaviour in respect of share dealing, 
market abuse and dissemination of 
information to the market.
The manufacture of our products  
involves the use of large and complex 
manufacturing equipment and the 
Board attaches great importance to 
the safety and wellbeing of all our 
people. Matters relating to health 
and safety performance are reviewed 
and discussed at each Board meeting 
and as discussed below, we measure 
and track our employee safety record 
continuously.
Our businesses support the local 
communities in which they operate. 
Examples of some of the initiatives our 
people have been involved in during 
the year are discussed in more detail 
below.
Employees
Our people are one of our most 
important resources. Their experience 
and expertise as well as their 
commitment to innovation and 
excellence and their drive to improve 
our performance is greatly valued. 
Fiberweb’s policy is to provide 
equal opportunities for employment 
regardless of gender, race, colour, 
national origin, religion, age, marital 
status, sexual orientation or disability. 
The Company takes compliance with 
anti-discrimination requirements very 
seriously in all the territories in which we 
operate. All our employees both current 
and potential, are given full and fair 
consideration for employment, training, 
career development and promotion, 
based on their skills and abilities.
Fiberweb believes in open 
communication channels across 
its businesses and employees are 
regularly provided with information 
concerning the performance and 
prospects of their local business unit 
and the global business. Internet 
based communications are used to 
provide information globally, and 
employee councils and other local 
forums enable employees’ views to 
be heard and taken into account. As 
in previous years, in 2009, Fiberweb 
held a Management Conference 
to communicate and discuss the 
progress, challenges and future 
strategy and plans of the business. 
The content was disseminated to 
employees worldwide via a variety of 
media and events. 
Health and Safety  
Providing a safe and healthy working 
environment for all those working on 
or visiting Fiberweb facilities remains 
a high priority and a core business 
value for Fiberweb. Signiﬁ cant 
resources are committed at every 
Fiberweb facility to ensure a safe 
and healthy working environment 
for all employees. Our health and 
safety management system has 
been designed to identify workplace 
hazards and ensure proper safety 
precautions are implemented to 
minimise the risks associated with 
these hazards. 
We recognise that a successful 
health and safety programme is 
dependent on the commitment 
of all our employees. In 2009, we 
maintained our expectation of 
consistent conformance with health 
and safety regulations as well as 
Fiberweb’s operating expectations. In 
an effort to achieve zero incidents, we 
continued to evaluate our health and 
safety programmes and made careful 
and planned enhancements when 
required. 
The following key elements provide 
an overview of our health and safety 
programmes and performance. 
1.  Safety performance metrics
Fiberweb uses two metrics globally 
to evaluate health and safety 
performance. Recordable Injury 
Rate (RIR) measures the number of 
injuries per 100 full-time equivalent 
employees. RIR is an indicator of past 
safety performance and is continuously 
analysed to identify positive and 
negative safety trends. Injury Severity 
Rate tracks the number of injuries per 
100 full-time employees with one day 
or more away from work. Fiberweb 
maintains stringent criteria for deﬁ ning 
a recordable and lost time incident 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 34    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
which are consistent with criteria used 
by the UK Health and Safety Executive 
and the US Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (“OSHA”). 
In 2009, Fiberweb achieved a RIR of 1.3 
which is consistent with performance 
in 2008 and also signiﬁ cantly better 
than the nonwovens industry average 
of 5.6. 
In 2009 Fiberweb’s Injury Severity 
Index improved signiﬁ cantly over 
2008, falling from 27.8 to 20.3. These 
positive and encouraging trends show 
the beneﬁ t of continued emphasis on 
safety at all levels of the organisation. 
Added emphasis is achieved through 
continuing adherence to safety 
programmes and key improvement 
initiatives which provide employees 
with the tools to further improve health 
and safety performance.
2. “Back to Basics II” (“B2B2”) safety 
initiative
A critical element of our health and 
safety continuous improvement 
programme, is “Back to Basics” 
(“B2B”). Developed in 2007, the 
programme continues to provide a 
positive impact and focus on health 
and safety by addressing the historical 
root causes of injuries and identifying 
hazards with potentially high severity. 
This programme has resulted in 
improved lockout/tagout procedures, 
procedures to reduce exposure 
to cutting blades, close proximity 
awareness and improved investigation 
and follow-up processes. In 2008, Back 
to Basics II (B2B2) was developed and 
deployed with the added enhancement 
of local Operations Leadership Teams 
conducting daily facility tours.
In 2009, the B2B2 programme 
continued to provide positive results 
in promoting safety awareness and 
hazard recognition. A third generation 
of Back to Basics, B2B3 “Recognising 
Critical Behaviours,” will be 
communicated during 2010. The new 
process is intended to complement 
existing efforts already implemented 
at the sites by adding a behavioural 
approach to address critical activities.
3. Global health and safety 
communications
Fiberweb continues to conduct Health 
and Safety Lead Team Meetings to 
identify and develop health and safety 
initiatives and further increase the 
Group-wide focus on integrating health 
and safety issues into the broader 
corporate social responsibility context. 
Health and Safety professionals, 
operations personnel and members 
of Senior Management attend these 
meetings which provide an opportunity 
to problem solve and share best 
practice. During 2010 additional 
information sharing amongst all 
of our locations will continue to be 
encouraged. 
4. Health and safety management 
system 
Fiberweb’s existing Health and 
Safety Management System is being 
modiﬁ ed and improved  to include key 
elements taken from the International 
Standards Organization (ISO) 14001 
and Occupational Safety, Health and 
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001.
These key elements have been 
selected to help us focus on hazard 
identiﬁ cation and also promote 
a sustainable health and safety 
programme. 
5. Process safety management
Whilst Fiberweb facilities are not 
currently regulated under the 
United States OSHA Process Safety 
Management (PSM) Standard, our 
manufacturing facilities continue 
to apply OSHA’s PSM principles to 
facilitate recognition and control 
of process hazards. Employees 
participate in Hazard and Operability 
(HAZOP) Studies which provide 
participants with the skills and 
tools necessary to identify and 
control hazards associated with 
critical processes. In 2009, over a 
dozen Formal Hazard Operability 
Studies (HAZOP’s) were conducted 
globally. Additionally, sites have 
conducted numerous Process Safety 
Assessments which are technology 
speciﬁ c checklists providing the 
same ability to recognise and control 
risk.  In 2010 we will continue to 
provide training opportunities and 
currently have several critical projects 
proactively conducting process safety 
related activities.
6. Incident investigation and 
reporting
A critical component in preventing 
injuries is incident reporting and 
root cause analysis. Fiberweb has an 
online incident reporting tool which 
includes a root cause analysis module 
designed to facilitate true root cause 
investigation of an incident and to help 
identify the proper corrective actions to 
prevent recurrence. Additional efforts 
planned in 2010 to maximise our ability 
to extract and share valuable data 
from the system.
7. Regulatory compliance auditing
Fiberweb’s health and safety 
compliance auditing programme 
provides a consistent approach to 
examining compliance with corporate 
health and safety requirements as 
well as applicable legal requirements. 
The programme provides a detailed 
compliance audit at each facility 
every three years with a follow-up 
audit during alternate years. In 2009, 
follow-up audits were conducted at 
all facilities globally. In the Americas, 
safety management training was 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Fiberweb RIR
Industry Average     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    35 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
provided during the follow-up audits, 
in an effort to strengthen each site’s 
existing safety programmes. A new 
three year rotation cycle will begin 
in 2010 with comprehensive review 
audits for the Americas and Asia, and 
follow-up audits for our European 
locations. 
8. Resource exchange process  
The resource exchange process 
involves Fiberweb health and safety 
site coordinators visiting other facilities 
to learn how other locations manage 
the health and safety function, develop 
health and safety auditing skills and 
share best practice.
The Environment
Fiberweb is committed to developing 
and promoting products and processes 
that reduce waste and adverse 
environmental impacts. This includes 
both the efﬁ cient use of materials 
and energy in design and product 
development, and an awareness of 
the effect on the environment of our 
manufacturing processes.
Fiberweb encourages each of 
its facilities to develop its own 
environmental programmes and to work 
towards reducing our environmental 
impact. We continue our focus on 
identifying and improving performance 
in key areas of environmental impact, 
which include waste reduction, energy 
consumption, water consumption, 
the use of recycled and biodegradable 
materials, and packaging. To 
further advance our performance, 
we completed comprehensive 
environmental audits of all of our 
Consumer Fabrics facilities during 2009. 
Our businesses are encouraged to 
report all environmental impacts 
and key performance information is 
collected twice a year through the 
Environmental Index, an electronic 
data collection system. Reports 
are issued annually and provide a 
means by which our businesses can 
set improvement targets. Data on 
the global business environmental 
impacts for 2009 will be available 
during the ﬁ rst half of 2010.
In 2009, Fiberweb began work on  a 
signiﬁ cant investment at our Old 
Hickory, USA facility to replace an 
inefﬁ cient coal-ﬁ red steam plant with 
a state-of-the-art natural gas-ﬁ red 
unit which will signiﬁ cantly reduce 
emissions and energy consumption.
Sustainability and the Supply 
Chain 
Fiberweb continues to work actively 
to design and develop products that 
promote sustainable development 
principles and do not adversely impact 
the environment, health, or safety 
of the communities we serve. This 
is pursued primarily through our 
R&D innovation strategy as well as 
centralised procurement or, where this 
is impractical, local sourcing. 
Fiberweb actively seeks to develop and 
market products which use renewable 
and recycled materials. One such 
is EcoFabrics which is a nonwoven 
bi-component fabric combining 
environmentally friendly and renewable 
Ingeo™, made from natural renewable 
materials, with a polypropylene coating 
to enhance performance. We also 
offer traditional carded fabrics made 
from 100% renewable ﬁ bres which are 
compostable in standard composting 
facilities. 
Sustainability also plays an important 
role in our research and development 
activities where we seek to develop 
ways to reduce raw material usage and 
energy consumption, and work with 
customers and suppliers to develop 
products with improved sustainability. 
By way of example over the past 15 
years we have worked to reduce the  
weight of our fabrics for baby diaper 
components so that by 2009 the 
average fabric weight is only 60% of 
the 1994 value.
The Community
Fiberweb’s businesses are encouraged 
to become involved with their local 
communities through a range of 
organisations and initiatives. Examples 
of the support given in 2009 are:
North America
In our US operations our employees 
continue to support their local 
communities in a variety of ways 
including the donation of equipment 
and voluntary work for local schools 
and organisations. We also contribute 
to national charities such as the 
American Cancer Society, United Way, 
and Habitat for Humanity. 
United Way is a nationally recognised, 
community-based organisation 
that provides local funding to local 
non-proﬁ t organisations across the 
US. This support is provided through 
employee donations.
Our support for Habitat for Humanity 
comes through the supply of volunteers 
and materials to build low cost 
affordable housing. 
Europe
Fiberweb Italia has contributed 
towards the Abruzzo, Italy, earthquake 
disaster relief effort, and once again 
provided ﬁ nancial support to the Alessi 
Foundation, a non-proﬁ t organisation 
recognised by the Italian Government. 
Terram in the UK has a programme to 
support local schools through the UK 
Career Academy Foundation, a national 
movement of employers, schools and 
colleges, working to raise the aspirations 
of 16-19 year olds and inform their career 
development. In addition ﬁ nancial support 
has been provided to a number of local 
voluntary organisations working to help 
young people.
Also in the UK support has been given to 
Cruse Bereavement Care, a UK national 
charity offering free conﬁ dential help 
and advice to bereaved people.  36    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
THE BOARD CONSISTS OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, CHIEF FINANCIAL 
OFFICER AND THREE INDEPENDENT NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AS FOLLOWS:
A Strong Board – Complementary mix of skills and experience
     Historic   
     knowledge   Experienced
    Relevant and familiarity  Business and  listed
 Manufacturing Turnaround Financial industry with Fiberweb  commercial company International
 experience experience qualifications experience businesses experience director operations
Executive directors
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive Officer                Daniel Abrams
Chief Financial Officer                Non executive directors
Malcolm Coster 
Chairman               Stephen Dryden                Richard Stillwell               Brian Taylorson                BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1 2 3 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Malcolm Coster (65)
Non executive Chairman
Chairman, Nomination Committee
He joined Fiberweb as Chairman-designate 
in June 2006, was appointed to the Board 
on 30 August 2006 and was appointed 
Chairman with effect from the demerger of 
Fiberweb from BBA Group plc in November 
2006. He is Chairman of DMW Group 
and a non executive director of Universe 
Group plc. He was formerly Chairman of 
MTL Instruments Group plc and a non 
executive director of the Performing Right 
Society, British Technology Group plc and 
Torotrak plc. An engineer and information 
technologist by training, he was President 
of Europe, Middle East and Africa for 
UNISYS Corporation between1994 and 
1997 and Chairman of UNISYS Limited and 
executive partner, head of the management 
consulting practice, and a member of the 
board at Coopers & Lybrand between 1986 
and 1994.
2. Daniel Dayan (46)
Chief Executive Officer
He joined Fiberweb in June 2005 as its 
Chief Executive Officer and was appointed 
to the Board on 21 July 2006. During 2009 
he was appointed a non executive director 
of Stobart Group Limited and as a Trustee 
of the human rights charity The Medical 
Foundation. Between 1994 and 2005 he 
was employed by Novar plc in a variety 
of general management and functional 
positions, including Head of Corporate 
Development and Chief Executive Officer 
of Novar’s largest division, Intelligent 
Building Systems. He was a director 
of Novar plc from January 2004 until 
its acquisition by Honeywell in March 
2005. Earlier in his career, he worked 
in manufacturing management with ICI 
plc and as a management consultant 
for Arthur D. Little. He is a chartered 
mechanical engineer.
4 5 6
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    37 
3. Daniel Abrams (54)
Chief Financial Officer
He joined Fiberweb in February 2008 
as Director and Chief Financial Officer. 
Prior to joining Fiberweb he was 
most recently Chief Financial Officer 
of Cambridge Display Technology 
Inc until July 2006 and was Finance 
Director of Xenova Group plc between 
1997 and 2005. He has also held 
senior finance roles with Diageo 
plc and PepsiCo. Inc. He holds an 
MA in law from Cambridge, is a 
qualified barrister and is a chartered 
accountant having qualified at Arthur 
Andersen & Co. He has been a 
member of the Financial Reporting 
Review Panel since January 2007.
4. Richard Stillwell (60)
Non executive director 
Senior Independent Director
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
He was appointed to the Board on 30 
August 2006 and is the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and the 
Senior Independent Director. He was 
a non executive director of BBA Group 
plc from 1998 until 2006 and Chairman 
of its Remuneration Committee. He 
is also a non executive director of St 
Ives plc, Penna Consulting Plc and TBI 
Limited. He is Chairman of Scott Bader 
Company Limited and is a qualified 
barrister. Until August 2000, he was 
Executive Vice-President Industrial 
Specialities at ICI plc, where he had 
held various posts since 1974.
5. Stephen Dryden (41)
Non executive director
Chairman, Audit Committee 
He was appointed to the Board on 
1 June 2009 and is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. He has been the 
Group Finance Director of DS Smith 
Plc since 1 April 2008. He previously 
held the position of Finance Director 
of Filtrona plc following its demerger 
from Bunzl plc in 2005. Prior to that 
he was divisional Finance Director 
of the Filtrona businesses and held 
other senior finance positions within 
Bunzl plc. He began his career at Price 
Waterhouse and has also held various 
finance roles in Rolls-Royce plc.
6. Brian Taylorson (54)
Non executive director 
He was appointed to the Board on 
25 September 2006. He is currently 
Finance Director of Elementis plc, a 
global speciality chemicals company, 
a position he has held since April 
2003. Prior to joining Elementis 
in 2002, he was Head of European 
Chemicals M&A at KPMG Corporate 
Finance. From 1983 to 2000 he held 
a number of finance positions at 
Dow Chemical Company. He has an 
MA in Engineering from Cambridge 
University, is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant and a member of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers. 38    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
FIBERWEB’S MULTI-NATIONAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM HAS 
CONSIDERABLE EXPERIENCE IN INTERNATIONAL MANUFACTURING
EXECUTIVE TEAM
4
7
5
8
1 2 3
6
1. Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive Officer
2. Daniel Abrams
Chief Financial Officer
3. Derek Chan
President, Asia
4. Carsten Heldmann
Chief Technology Officer
5. John Juric
President Americas Industrial 
6. Hans Jörg Oberberg
President Europe Industrial
7. Ian Barnes
President Consumer Fabrics
8. Alice Heezen
Head of HR and Change
    OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    39 
The directors present their annual report together with the 
financial statements and auditor’s report for the year ended 
31 December 2009.
Principal Activities and Business Review
Fiberweb is an international group of businesses involved in the 
development, manufacturing and supply of specialist nonwoven 
fabrics. It operates principally in Europe, North America, and 
Asia, and has a strong portfolio of products and brands, and 
market leading positions in several countries.
Fiberweb plc is the Group holding company. The subsidiary and 
associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net 
assets of the Group in the year are listed on page 103.
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review 
of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 
31 December 2009, including an analysis of the position of the 
Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group (known as 
a ‘Business Review’ and for the purposes of DTR 4.1.5, the 
management report) and a Corporate Governance Statement. 
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business 
Review can be found in the pages listed below, which are 
incorporated in this report by reference.
 Pages
Business Review  13 to 32
Operations  14 to 24
Financial Review  25 to 32
Review of Results  25 to 28
Key Performance Indicators  28 to 30
Risks and Uncertainties 31 to 33
Corporate Social Responsibility (including employee, 
environmental, social and community matters)     33 to 35
The Business Review also includes a description of the vision 
and strategy of the Group, and its markets, business trends 
and external environment, on pages 14 to 24, and is 
supplemented by the Chairman’s Statement and Chief 
Executive’s Review.
Pages
Chairman’s Statement 6 to 8
Chief Executive’s Review 9 to 12
The Corporate Governance Report can be found on pages 42 to 46.
Results and Dividends
The continuing underlying profit before taxation of the Group 
was £11.1 million (2008: £9.0 million). The full results for the 
year, which were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 
2010, are set out in the accompanying financial statements and 
the notes thereto on pages 55 to 59.
An interim dividend of 1.70 pence per ordinary share was paid 
on 6 November 2009. The Directors recommend the payment 
of a final dividend for 2009 of 2.50 pence per share (2008: 2.50 
pence), making a total for the year of 4.20 pence (2008: 4.20 
pence). Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be 
payable on 27 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 23 April 2010.
A dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) is in place that 
allows shareholders to purchase additional shares in the 
Company using their cash dividend. Further information 
regarding the plan is set out in Shareholder Information on 
page 108. 
Acquisitions and Disposals
On 1 April 2009 the Group acquired, with an effective date of 
1 January 2009, the 50% interest it did not already own in Coronor 
Composites GmbH for a consideration of €3.1 million in cash.
On 26 June 2009, the Group agreed to acquire the remaining 35% 
interest in Chinese polyester spunbond fabric manufacturer, 
Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited it did 
not already own for RMB 9,120,000 in cash. 
On 29 June 2009, the Group disposed of its 25.1% investment in 
Coratech GmbH for a consideration of €750,000 in cash.
On 31 July 2009 the Group entered into a joint venture with 
Petropar S.A. which created a leading producer of spunbond 
nonwovens in the Americas. The Group contributed its plants at 
Queretaro, Mexico and Washougal, USA, and a portion of land 
at its Simpsonville, USA site. Petropar contributed its nonwoven 
business consisting of Fitesa Industrial Ltda, Gravatai, Brazil 
and Fitesa, Inc, USA.
Capital Structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the 
Company, including movements during the year and the number 
of shares in issue at the end of the year, are shown in note 
27 on page 93. The Company has one class of ordinary share 
which carries no right to fixed income, and each share carries 
the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. The rights 
attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. All issued shares are fully paid. 
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, 
or on the size of a holding, or on voting rights, which are all 
matters governed by the Articles of Association. The directors 
are not aware of any agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or on voting rights. No person has any special 
rights of control over the Company’s share capital, so far as the 
directors are aware. 
Details of the significant holdings of ordinary shares are 
shown in the table of Substantial Shareholdings below. The 
shares held by the Fiberweb Employee Benefit Trust have no 
special rights with regard to control of the Company. Details of 
employee share schemes are set out in note 26.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors 
are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation. 
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution 
of the shareholders. 
The powers of the Company’s directors, including any powers 
in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its 
shares, are described in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation, 
and in the Schedule of Powers Reserved for the Board which 
can be found on the Company’s website. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 40    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
The Company has various agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as 
commercial contracts and bank facility agreements (including 
a £205 million multi-currency revolving credit facility and the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture), property lease arrangements 
and employee share plans. The directors are not aware of 
any agreements between the Company and its directors or 
employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2009, 
shareholders approved a resolution authorising the Company 
to make market purchases of up to approximately 15 per cent 
of its existing ordinary share capital. The authority will expire 
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
29 April 2010 unless renewed. Accordingly, a special resolution 
to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, details of which are set out in the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report. 
The Company did not purchase any of its issued ordinary shares 
during the year under the authority mentioned above.
Substantial Shareholdings and Voting Rights
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on 
the Company’s website. As at 4 March 2010, the Company has 
been notified under DTR 5 of the following significant holdings 
of voting rights in its shares: 
 Number of % voting
 voting rights of total
Name of Holder (shares) rights
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Ltd 17,128,050 13.99%
Franklin Resources 14,905,591 12.17%
Standard Life Investments 11,382,078 9.30%
Legal & General 8,909,960 7.27%
Schroder 6,491,705 5.30%
AXA S.A. 6,382,809 5.21%
Gartmore Investments Limited 5,895,096 4.82%
River & Mercantile Asset Management LLP 5,668,205 4.67%
Property Values
The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the 
Group’s properties are not substantially different from the 
values included in the Group’s financial statements.
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 13 to 32. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on 
pages 25 to 33. In addition, notes 21 and 22 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements include the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities and its exposures to liquidity risk. Credit risk 
exposure is discussed in note 17.
As highlighted in note 21, the Group’s primary source of funds 
since demerger has been a $400 million (originally $439.5 
million) multi-currency, revolving credit facility (“the original 
RCF”), provided by a syndicate of several international banks, 
which matures in 2011 and which is subject to the financial 
covenants set out on pages 82 and 83 in note 21. At 31 December 
2009, $252.9 million was drawn down under the RCF.  
As of February 2010, the Group has entered into a new loan 
facility (“the new RCF”) which will replace the original facility 
and has a term of 3½ years until July 2013 for an amount 
of £205 million comprising multi-currency facilities of €110 
million and US$170 million. Interest rates are at prevailing 
market rates and are more expensive than under the original 
RCF which was in place during 2009 and which was established 
at the time of the demerger in 2006.
The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors 
its projected compliance with its banking covenants under 
the relevant RCF, which is reviewed by the Board. Forecasts 
are then adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal 
risks to which the Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in 
raw material prices, exchange rates and best estimates of the 
possible impact of the macroeconomic environment on the 
Group’s underlying trading results. Consideration is then given 
to the potential actions available to management to mitigate the 
impact of one or more of the sensitivities. The Group’s central 
and sensitised forecasts, after applying reasonable possible 
adverse variations in trading performance, show that the 
Group should be able to operate within the level of the new 
facility and remain covenant compliant. Covenant tests are 
required quarterly under the new facility, compared to the six-
monthly testing under the original RCF. 
After making enquires, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial 
statements.
Charitable and Political Donations
The Company made no political donations during the year. Group 
donations to charities worldwide were £9,000 (2008: £32,000), 
with UK charities receiving £nil (2008: £7,000). Charitable 
donations comprise amounts paid in support of local community 
initiatives and charities, with none individually material.
Supplier Payment Policy
It is the Company’s and Group’s policy to settle terms of 
payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each 
transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms 
of payment, and to abide by terms of payment. Trade creditors 
of the Group at 31 December 2009 were equivalent to 46 days’ 
purchases (2008: 55 days) based on the average daily amount 
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Number of % voting
 voting rights of total
N Name of Holder (shares) rights
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Ltd 17,128,050 13.99%
F Franklin Resources 14,905,591 12.17%
Standard Life Investments 11,382,078 9.30%
L Legal & General 8,909,960 7.27%
Schroder 6,491,705 5.30%
A AXA S.A. 6,382,809 5.21%
G Gartmore Investments Limited 5,895,096 4.82%
R River & Mercantile Asset Management LLP 5,668,205 4.67% OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    41 
Board of Directors
The names of the directors of the Company as at the date of 
this report, together with their dates of appointment, their 
biographical details and details of their skills and experience, 
are shown on pages 36 and 37. 
Peter Hickman resigned as a director on 30 April 2009. 
Stephen Dryden was appointed a director on 1 June 2009 
and offers himself for election by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association. 
Malcolm Coster and Brian Taylorson will retire by rotation 
under the Articles at the Annual General Meeting and offer 
themselves for re-election by shareholders. Neither Mr Coster, 
Mr Dryden nor Mr Taylorson has service contracts with the 
Company. Profiles of each of Mr Coster, Mr Dryden and 
Mr Taylorson are given on page 37. The Board considers 
that each of them, in the case of Mr Coster as Chairman and 
in the case of Mr Dryden and Mr Taylorson as non executive 
directors, makes an effective and valuable contribution to 
the Board and has demonstrated clear commitment to their 
respective roles. 
Directors’ Interests 
Details of the directors’ service contracts, remuneration and 
interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 52. Other than 
their service contracts, no director had any material interest in 
any contract of significance with any Group company at any time 
during the year.
Directors’ Indemnities
The Company entered into a Deed of Indemnity with each of 
the directors of the Company upon their appointment and each 
Deed of Indemnity remains in force at the date of this report. 
The terms of each of these deeds are identical and reflect the 
statutory provisions on indemnities introduced by the Companies 
(Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004. 
Under the terms of each deed, the Company undertakes to 
indemnify the relevant director, to the fullest extent permitted 
by law, against any and all liability, howsoever caused (including 
by that director’s own negligence), suffered or incurred by that 
director in the course of acting as a director or employee of the 
Company or any member of the Group.
Similarly, the Company entered into a Deed Poll of Indemnity in 
favour of the Company Secretary and other persons discharging 
managerial responsibility on 30 October 2006. The terms of 
the deed poll are similar to the terms of the Deed of Indemnity 
entered into with the directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity, Deed Poll of Indemnity and the 
Company’s Articles of Association are available for inspection 
during normal business hours at the Company’s registered 
office and will also be available for inspection at the Annual 
General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s fourth Annual General Meeting will be held at 
Baker & McKenzie LLP, 100 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 
6JA on 29 April 2010 at 11.30am. Enclosed with this report 
is the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which sets out the 
resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting. 
These are explained in a letter from the Chairman, which 
accompanies the Notice.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of the approval 
of this annual report confirms that:
   So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
   The director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 (2) of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Auditors 
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the 
Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 4 March 2010 and is 
signed on its behalf by:
Tony Holland
Company Secretary
Registered Office:
1 Victoria Villas
Richmond on Thames 
London
TW9 2GW 42    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Fiberweb plc is committed to complying with the best practice 
principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (“the 
Code”). During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company 
considers that it has complied in full with the provisions set out 
in Section 1 of the Code, except in respect of Code provision 
A.4.1, as independent non-executive directors do not form a 
majority of the members of the Nomination Committee. Details 
and explanations of the application of the Code are given later 
in this report.  
Incorporated in this report by reference are details of significant 
holdings of and special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital, voting rights, rules relating to the appointment 
and replacement and powers of directors and amendment of 
the Articles of Association of the Company which are set out 
on pages 39 and 40. A going concern statement can be found 
on page 40.
The Role of the Board
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the success of the 
Company. The Board meets regularly to determine the strategic 
direction of the Group and to review operating, financial and risk 
performance. Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board 
Committees as described later in this report.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
that includes approval of the following:
  the Group’s long term objectives and strategy;
   acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects 
above certain thresholds;
   all guarantees and treasury related transactions above 
certain thresholds;
   the financial statements and assessment of financial 
performance;
  the Company’s dividend policy;
   transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company 
shares;
  the Group’s risk management strategy;
   legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain 
thresholds;
   appointments to the Board and the appointment of the 
Company secretary; 
   Group policies and the scope of delegations to Board 
Committees and executive management of the Group; and
   directors’ conflicts of interest.
The full schedule of matters reserved for Board approval 
can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com. 
The schedule of matters is reviewed on an annual basis. Matters 
outside the scope of the formal schedule of matters are decided 
by management in accordance with the delegated authority 
limits within the Group Authority Limits Policy.
In order to ensure that all matters are given due consideration, 
the Board has adopted a schedule of agenda items, which is 
reviewed annually. 
These include:
  annual strategy review;
  divisional updates and business plans;
  annual budget setting and approval;
  review of Group policies; and
  succession planning.
At each meeting, the Board receives information from the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on the performance 
and results of the Group and individual operating businesses, 
the Group’s current financial position and updates on any other 
significant matters. The Divisional Presidents and Global Head 
of Research and Development present to the Board from time 
to time and in addition other senior managers such as the 
Head of HR and Change and Head of Legal update the Board on 
developments in their area of responsibility.
The directors are generally provided with detailed and 
comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting. The 
agenda is set by the Chairman in conjunction with the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company 
Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the 
timeliness and quality of information and is responsible for 
advising the Board on corporate governance matters and Board 
procedures. All directors have access to the advice and the 
services of the Company Secretary. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board 
Committees. 
The directors may take independent professional advice at 
the Company’s expense in relation to their responsibilities 
as directors. None of the directors obtained independent 
professional advice in this regard in the period under review.
The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held 
during the year and individual attendance by directors at those 
meetings are set out in the table below.
Note: Malcolm Coster, Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams all attended meetings of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee at the invitation 
of the Chairmen of those Committees. Daniel Abrams and Brian Taylorson attend Nomination Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman 
of that Committee. Stephen Dryden was appointed a director on 1 June 2009.
    Audit Remuneration Nomination
   Full Board Committee Committee Committee
 Number of meetings held during the year 9 4 5 4
 Attendance:
 Malcolm Coster Chairman 9 4 5 4
 Daniel Dayan CEO 9 4 5 4
 Daniel Abrams CFO 9 4 4 2
 Stephen Dryden Non executive director 4 2 2 2
 Richard Stillwell Non executive director 9 4 5 4
 Brian Taylorson Non executive director   8 3 4 2 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board, Board Balance and Independence
The Board comprises two executive directors and four non 
executive directors (including the Chairman) who contribute a 
wide range of complementary skills and experience. Details of 
each director’s skills and experience are set out on pages 36 
and 37.
The Chairman of the Board is Malcolm Coster. The Chairman’s 
other significant commitments are set out on page 37. 
The Chief Executive Officer is Daniel Dayan. Richard Stillwell is 
the Senior Independent Director. He is available to shareholders 
if they have concerns that the normal channels of contact with 
the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer would not resolve.
The Board believes that there is an appropriate balance of 
executive and non executive directors on the Board, without one 
individual or group dominating the Board’s decision-making 
process.
The Board has determined all its non executive directors to be 
independent in character and judgement. The non executive 
Chairman, Malcolm Coster, was considered independent in 
character and judgement on appointment. Whilst the assessment 
of independence is not required for a serving Chairman under 
the Code, the Board considers its Chairman to be independent, 
notwithstanding his fee structure, which for the majority of the 
period under review allowed for the payment of his fees in cash 
and shares. Further details of the Chairman’s fee arrangement 
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 50.
The Board will assess the independence of its non executive 
directors on a continuous basis.
Following the introduction on 1 October 2008 of the statutory 
duty on directors to avoid situations which have or may have 
an interest which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the 
interests of the Company, the Nominations Committee has 
been given responsibility for considering and if appropriate 
authorising such conflict situations on such terms as are 
considered necessary, or if material referring them to the 
Board, on an ongoing basis. Any director in a conflicting or 
potentially conflicting situation is excluded from any decision. 
During the year the Committee reviewed the potential conflicts 
arising in connection with the appointment of Stephen Dryden 
as a non executive director of the Company and the appointment 
of Daniel Dayan as a non executive director of Stobart Group 
Limited.
Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate 
and there is a clear division of responsibilities between these 
roles. In accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted 
a formal written statement of the division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective 
engagement and contribution of all non executive and executive 
directors. In conjunction with the Company Secretary, he is 
responsible for ensuring that directors receive information in an 
accurate, clear and timely manner, and for promoting effective 
decision making. He is also responsible for ensuring that 
directors continually update their skills and knowledge. The 
Chairman has active contact and involvement with the executive 
directors and the affairs of the Company. This serves to keep 
him abreast of current business issues but also provides the 
executive directors with access to an independent opinion on 
day to day business decisions. 
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for the day to day 
management of the Group’s businesses and acts in accordance 
with the authority delegated by the Board. He is responsible 
for developing and proposing a strategy for consideration 
and adoption by the Board and for implementing the Board’s 
strategies, decisions and policies. He is also responsible for 
ensuring that the business strategy and activities are effectively 
communicated and promoted within and outside the business, 
building positive relationships with the Company’s stakeholders 
and for creating and developing the Company’s culture.
Board Appointments
Primary responsibility for planned and progressive refreshing 
of the Board lies with the Board. The Board, through the work 
of the Nomination Committee, ensures that there is a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of 
new directors. Further details of the work of the Nomination 
Committee are set out below.
Appointments of non executive directors are made by the Board 
for an initial term of three years, which is subject to the usual 
regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance of 
their duties. Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic 
but may be made by mutual agreement.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least 
every three years.
On appointment, all non executive directors are advised of the 
time commitment expected of them to fulfil their duties.
Letters of appointment for the non executive directors are 
available for inspection on request.
Board Induction and Professional Development
The Board has adopted a formal written programme for the 
induction of new directors to familiarise themselves with 
the Group’s businesses, understand the goals, objectives 
and mission of the Company and develop an awareness and 
understanding of the views of the Company’s major shareholders. 
The programme is also structured to enable the new director to 
gain an understanding of his or her own specific duties and 
responsibilities. The programme, developed in accordance 
with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
guidelines on Board induction, is made up of a combination 
of selected written corporate information, meetings with key 
senior management and site visits, and is tailored to meet each 
new director’s specific needs, skills and experience. Where a 
non executive director is also being appointed a member of one 
of the Board Committees, his or her induction will cover matters 
such as the role of and terms of reference of the relevant 
Committee.
In order to maintain, develop and update directors’ knowledge 
and capabilities, the Board and its Committees are briefed 
on corporate governance and regulatory developments as 
they arise. The Audit Committee is briefed on technical and 
accounting matters as a matter of routine at each meeting by 
senior management and the external auditors. The directors 
receive information and training in respect of their statutory 
duties, the disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, and the Listing Rules. A continuous 
programme of development will occur as needs require.
The Board regards performance evaluation as an important 
part of monitoring and improving its effectiveness, and a 
formal internal appraisal of the Board and individual directors 
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    43  44    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(including the Board Committees) was undertaken during the 
year. This involved the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, 
obtaining views from and evaluating the performance of the 
other individual directors, and the non executive directors, led 
by the Senior Independent Director assessing the performance 
of the Chairman.
Board Committees
The terms of reference of the principal Committees of the 
Board, the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees, 
are available on the Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com
Remuneration Committee
The details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 52.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of three independent non 
executive directors and is chaired by Stephen Dryden. Its other 
members are Richard Stillwell and Brian Taylorson.
Both Stephen Dryden and Brian Taylorson are qualified 
Chartered Accountants and currently hold senior finance roles 
in major UK listed public companies.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include all 
matters listed in Code provision C.3.2 with the exception of risk 
management which is reviewed by the Board as a whole. The 
terms of reference are reviewed annually and any proposed 
revisions formally approved and adopted by the Board.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and their 
remuneration. The Committee reviews the external auditors’ 
independence, and considers the nature, scope and results of 
the auditors’ work and the provision of non-audit services by 
them. The Committee focuses particularly on compliance with 
legal and other regulatory requirements, accounting standards 
and ensuring that an effective system of internal controls 
is maintained. The Committee may consider any financial 
matter that may have an impact on the Company. The ultimate 
responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and 
interim financial statements and biannual trading statements 
remains with the Board.
The Committee normally meets not less than three times a 
year at dates to coincide with the financial reporting cycle. The 
Committee also meets privately with the external auditors and 
the internal auditors at least once a year. The Chairman may 
call a meeting at the request of the executive directors or that 
of the external auditors.
In addition to Committee members, the Chairman of the Board, 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial 
Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors 
normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee 
Chairman. 
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Audit 
Committee considered the following matters and took the 
following actions in the discharge of its duties:
   reviewed and advised the Board on the financial statements 
in the 2009 report and accounts;
   reviewed and assessed the audit services provided and the 
effectiveness of the external auditors;
   discussed and agreed the nature and the scope of work to be 
performed by the external auditors;
   reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
systems established by management and reviewed the 
Board’s sign-off procedure on the system of internal controls, 
which are set out in more detail below;
   reviewed the scope of the work and effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and the manner in which internal 
audit services will be provided; 
   received and reviewed reports from the internal audit 
function on the work undertaken during the year;
   reviewed the policy on the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditors and assessed the independence of the 
auditors; and
   reviewed the arrangements by which concerns can be 
raised by staff in respect of possible matters of financial 
impropriety or other matters. 
Auditor Independence and Effectiveness
The external auditors were appointed in 2006 on the demerger 
of the Group from BBA Aviation plc.
One of the key responsibilities of the Committee is to ensure 
that the independence and objectivity of the external auditors 
is safeguarded. The Committee has adopted a policy on the 
provision of non-audit services that is in line with the Accounting 
Practice Board’s Ethical Standards. This policy is reviewed 
annually. It prohibits the external auditors from providing 
certain additional services to the Group such as bookkeeping, 
internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and financial 
systems design and implementation. The external auditors 
are, however, permitted to provide assurance services such as 
reporting accountant work, due diligence and tax services.
The Group’s general policy is not to use the external auditors for 
acquisition and due diligence work. However, where the Group 
considers it appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers other than 
the preferred supplier may be asked to tender and this may 
include the external auditors.
In accordance with the policy, the Chairman of the Committee or, 
in his absence, another designated member of the Committee is 
required to pre-approve certain permitted services that exceed 
the financial limits set out in the policy. A summary of the 
overall level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors is 
presented at each Audit Committee meeting.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors, Deloitte 
LLP, for non-audit services provided during the year are given 
in note 4 on page 68. 
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the 
external auditors, the Audit Committee has during the year:
   reviewed the independence of the external auditors and the 
arrangements Deloitte LLP have in place to identify, report 
and manage conflicts of interest;
    reviewed changes in key external audit staff for the current 
year and the arrangements for the day to day management 
of the audit relationship, noting that they are required to 
rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every 
5 years;
   considered the effectiveness of the external auditors through 
a review of their plan of work and the outputs arising from 
the audit; and
continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    45 
   considered the overall extent of non-audit services provided 
by the external auditors, in addition to case by case approval 
of the provision of non-audit services as appropriate as set 
out above. 
As a result of the above, and taking into account the tenure of the 
auditors, the Committee concluded the independence criteria 
under the relevant standards continued to be met and that it 
was not necessary to tender for the audit work.  Accordingly, 
the Committee recommended to the Board the re-appointment 
of Deloitte LLP as external auditors.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and risk management, and reviews its 
effectiveness on an annual basis. 
The implementation and maintenance of risk management is 
the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior 
management and a system has been established to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks that the Group 
faces. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The main elements of the Group’s internal control system are 
as follows:
1.  The Board – The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control. As mentioned above in 
this report, the Board meets regularly and has a schedule of 
matters reserved for its approval and the Board Committees 
operate within delegated terms of reference. This structure 
includes the Audit Committee which, with the Chief Financial 
Officer, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and 
operating control environment of the Group. All acquisitions 
and disposals of companies or businesses are approved by 
the Board.
2.  Strategic and Business Planning – The Group and each 
business unit produce and agree a business plan each year 
against which the performance of the business is regularly 
monitored.
3.  Monthly Management Accounts – Detailed monthly 
management accounts are submitted to management that 
measure actual performance against budget. A monthly 
report is provided to the Board, highlighting key issues and 
summarising the detailed financial information provided by 
the operating units. Forecasts of sales, profits and operating 
cash are reviewed at least quarterly and presented to 
the Board.
4.  Internal Audit – PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as internal 
auditors undertake a programme of reviews aligned to 
the business risks. The Audit Committee receives a report 
from internal audit at each meeting that includes the findings 
of the reviews conducted and any actions agreed with 
management to be undertaken to improve the effectiveness 
of controls. The Head of Internal Audit has direct access 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit 
activities, including the scope of work, authority and 
resources of the internal audit function, and reviews the 
plan annually.
5.  System of Control Procedures and Delegated Authorities – 
There are clearly defined guidelines and approval limits 
for capital and operating expenditure and other key business 
transactions and decisions that have been approved by the 
Board. A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for 
the Group’s senior management and their direct reports 
including in relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, 
commercial and employee contracts and treasury matters.
6.  Treasury Policies and Procedures – Detailed procedures 
exist for the investments, currency and commodity hedging, 
granting of guarantees and the use of Treasury products.
7.  Risk Identification, Monitoring and Management Procedures – 
A process is in place to collate schedules of risks for each key 
site, which are then reviewed by the Divisional Presidents and 
consolidated into a schedule of the significant divisional level 
risks. Risks identified cover business, financial, compliance, 
operational as well as environmental, social and governance 
risks. These risk schedules, which include an assessment of 
their likelihood and impact, are kept under review and are 
presented at least annually at a Fiberweb Executive Team 
meeting each year for review. The Fiberweb Executive Team 
is responsible for confirming that the plans to mitigate those 
risks are satisfactory and for improving internal controls 
and processes. The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for 
reporting the work of the Fiberweb Executive Team on risk 
management to the Board. 
8.  Organisational Structure – Structures are in place at Head 
Office and divisional level that clearly define responsibilities 
for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, 
company secretarial and insurance functions.
9.  Group Finance Manual – The Group has adopted policies 
that are appropriate and as such, it has a full set of 
accounting policies and procedures in force. During the year 
a comprehensive review of the policies was completed and a 
revised and updated manual issued.
10.  Group Policies – A new Group Policy Manual was adopted 
in 2007 and communicated to all businesses. The policies 
were reviewed during 2009 and revised as necessary to 
take account of changing law and circumstances. The 
review of compliance with a number of these policies by 
Group companies has been introduced and the results are 
communicated to the Fiberweb Executive Team and the 
Board as necessary. 
11.  Health, Safety and Environmental Manual (HS&E) – A Group 
Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details policies, 
standards and procedures that are applicable throughout 
the Group. Further information is included in the Business 
Review on pages 33 to 35. A monthly report is prepared and 
circulated to the Fiberweb Executive Team on HS&E matters 
and the Board receives a report on HS&E matters at each 
Board meeting.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the Group and that it has been in place for the 
period under review up to the date of approval of the annual 
report and accounts. The Group’s system is reviewed by the 
Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance. Any significant 
failings or weaknesses that come to management’s and the 
Board’s attention are addressed and appropriate action taken.  46    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
The Company has board and operational level representation 
in the FitesaFiberweb joint venture and, whilst not applied in 
their entirety, a number of Group policies have been adopted. 
The joint venture is subject to the Company’s internal audit 
procedures and for management reporting purposes the joint 
venture is integrated with the Company. The financial results 
are separately audited but reviewed by the Company’s external 
auditors.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Malcolm Coster and 
its other members are Daniel Dayan, Richard Stillwell and 
Stephen Dryden. Whilst the Committee, leads the process of 
Board appointments, the Chairman will consult with all the 
Directors on a regular basis throughout the process. While the 
composition of the Nomination Committee is not in compliance 
with  A.4.1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, in the 
opinion of the Board it provides a suitable balance of knowledge 
and experience and the constitution of the Committee is 
appropriate given the size of the Board and the process 
undertaken for Board appointments. The Chairman will not 
participate in any discussion relating to the appointment of his 
successor.
The Committee has responsibility for identifying and nominating 
candidates for Board vacancies and making recommendations 
to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Company’s 
executive and non executive directors.
Before making an appointment, the Committee will evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, 
in light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment. Use will be 
made of external recruitment consultants and the final decision 
regarding appointment rests with the Board.
The Committee also has responsibility for reviewing and if 
appropriate authorising conflicts of interest or potential conflicts 
of interest of directors.
The Committee appointed external recruitment consultants 
to assist it in the recruitment of a director to replace Peter 
Hickman. Four Nomination Committee meetings occurred 
during the year at which the appointment of Stephen Dryden 
as a non executive director was considered and recommended 
to the Board for approval, and at which potential conflicts of 
interest were reviewed and considered.
Shareholder Relations
The Board as a whole is kept up to date on the views of Fiberweb’s 
major shareholders. This is achieved through regular meetings 
during the year between the Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and major shareholders to discuss matters of 
mutual interest that are reported to the Board. Broker reports 
are routinely circulated to the Board.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director met with 
major shareholders during the year. The Board considers 
that its Senior Independent Director has an understanding 
and awareness of the issues and concerns of major 
shareholders and both he and the other non executive directors 
were available to meet shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. 
Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the 
Annual General Meeting. The meeting provides an opportunity 
for shareholders to discuss with executive and non executive 
directors any issues concerning the Company and its activities. 
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to 
answer questions at the meeting.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the 
Annual General Meeting and makes available the proxy voting 
figures on each resolution. The voting results where resolutions 
are passed on a show of hands and details of all proxy votes cast 
prior to the meeting are available on the Company’s website. 
The results of the meeting are announced to the market via a 
Regulatory Information Service. OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    47 
This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 
2009 has been prepared in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the 
applicable Listing Rules. A resolution to approve the Report will 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at 
which the financial statements will also be approved. The vote 
will have an advisory status in respect of the remuneration 
policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be 
specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report are audited. 
Audited information is stated as such in the relevant section.
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee members are independent 
non executive directors. The Committee Chairman is Richard 
Stillwell. Its other members are Stephen Dryden and Brian 
Taylorson. Stephen Dryden, who was appointed on 1 June 2009, 
replaced Peter Hickman, who resigned on 30 April 2009.
The Committee normally meets no less than three times a 
year and has delegated responsibility for determining and 
agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for 
the remuneration of all executive directors and other senior 
executives, and for determining, within the agreed terms of 
reference, specific remuneration packages for each of the 
executive directors including pension rights, any compensation 
payments and the operation of executive incentive schemes. 
No director is involved in decisions relating to his own 
remuneration. During the period under review, the Remuneration 
Committee met on five occasions. 
The Committee’s full terms of reference, which are available 
on the Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com, are reviewed 
annually and any proposed revisions referred to the Board for 
formal approval and adoption. 
The Committee is responsible for:
   making recommendations to the Board on remuneration 
policy as applied to the Company’s executive directors and 
other senior management;
   determining total remuneration packages for the executive 
directors and other designated members of the executive 
management including base pay, performance-related bonus 
schemes, long-term incentives and other share awards;
   overseeing major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the Group;
   reviewing the design and operation of all share incentive 
plans for Board and shareholder approval, including 
approving grants of share awards to directors and senior 
managers; and
   reporting to the Board and external stakeholders on matters 
within its responsibilities.
The Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street 
(“HNBS”, a trading name of Hewitt Associates Limited), a 
remuneration consultancy, as external advisers. HNBS has 
provided the Committee with advice in respect of certain aspects 
of main board and senior executive remuneration. HNBS 
provided no other services to the Company. However, Hewitt 
Bacon & Woodrow Limited, Hewitt’s actuarial practice, has 
provided actuarial and accounting assistance to the Company 
on pension schemes. HNBS operates separately from the 
rest of Hewitt and there are provisions in place to ensure that 
there is no crossover of information between the two teams. 
The Committee identified no conflict in the nature of services 
provided by its advisers. The Committee also retains the 
remuneration practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers to provide 
advice in appropriate circumstances should the need arise.
The Committee also consults with the Chairman, who is not a 
member of the Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Head of HR and Change, save in respect 
of matters directly relating to their own remuneration. The 
Committee is appraised of pay and conditions in the Group as 
a whole by the Head of HR and Change as necessary to allow 
the Committee to take such matters into account when framing 
executive remuneration policy.
Remuneration Policy
Fiberweb’s remuneration policy is that the remuneration of the 
Company’s executive directors and other senior management 
should be designed to attract and retain executives of high 
calibre so that the Company can be managed effectively 
to the benefit of its stakeholders. Remuneration levels for 
senior executives are set taking into account the remuneration 
practices found in other UK listed companies of similar size, 
geographical spread and complexity, the economic realities 
both generally and in relation to the Company’s own specific 
circumstances (in particular the current stage of the Company’s 
development and the international nature of its business 
operations), together with pay and conditions elsewhere in 
the Group. The Committee is conscious of the need to remain 
competitive in the different geographic areas in which the 
Company operates. In determining its remuneration policy, the 
Committee also takes account of UK corporate governance best 
practice and current market practice.
The policy is to pay base salaries and total remuneration around 
the median level for ‘on-plan’ performance, and to provide the 
opportunity, via bonuses and long-term incentive plans, for 
executives to be rewarded at the upper quartile for the delivery 
of outstanding levels of performance.
The Committee has discretion to directly reflect corporate 
performance on environmental, social and governance matters 
when setting the remuneration of executive directors but 
has chosen not to take these into specific account in setting 
performance targets for 2009 and 2010 in the belief that the 
structures in place neither encourage nor reward inappropriate 
behaviour in this regard and that relevant operational controls 
relating to such matters are in place.
The Committee considers that the executive directors’ 
remuneration packages contain a suitable balance of fixed and 
variable performance related pay, and that the targets set for 
performance related pay are appropriate and demanding in the 
context of market practice, the Group’s trading environment 
and the current challenges that it faces. The Committee is 
satisfied that the executive directors’ remuneration packages 
do not encourage inappropriate operational risk taking.
The main elements of the remuneration package for the 
executive directors and senior management are as follows:
  Base salary;
  Benefits in kind;
  Short-term cash based annual incentive plan;
  Long-term share based incentives; and
  Pension arrangements.
The various components of executive remuneration are 
discussed in further detail below.
Base Salary
Base salaries are reviewed in relation to median market data 
for comparable companies in terms of size, market sector, 
 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 48    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
complexity and geographic spread. Reviews occur generally 
on an annual basis (effective from 1 January each year) and 
are based on performance, assessment of personal objectives 
where appropriate and any changes in responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee last reviewed the base salaries of 
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in December 
2008 and agreed increases of £10,000 effective from 1 January 
2009 and £15,000 effective from 1 February 2009 respectively. 
The revision in Daniel Dayan’s salary is the first since 2006 
and as a consequence currently Daniel Dayan’s base salary is 
£370,000 per annum and Daniel Abrams’ base salary is now 
£215,000 per annum. The total salaries received by Daniel 
Dayan and Daniel Abrams for the year under review are shown 
in Table 1 on page 50. 
Service Contracts
Both Daniel Dayan’s and Dan Abram’s service contracts (dated 
27 October 2006 and 1 February 2008 respectively) will terminate 
automatically upon reaching age 65, and provide for 12 months’ 
notice by either party. 
In the event of early termination by the Company other than 
for cause, the Company may elect either to make a single 
payment in lieu of notice (which will include base salary, 
assessment of lost bonus opportunity and benefits, and to 
the extent prescribed by the relevant plan rules, share award 
entitlements) or to make that payment in three instalments. 
If the payment is made in instalments, the first instalment is 
payable on termination and will comprise six months’ payment 
in lieu of notice (calculated to include the remuneration 
elements described above). The second and third payments will 
comprise three months’ notice each. The second payment will 
be made six months after termination, with the third payment 
due nine months after termination and will be reduced to take 
into account the remuneration paid pursuant to any alternative 
employment obtained by the executive director prior to such 
payments becoming due. 
Policy on External Directorships
The Board believes that the experience gained by executive 
directors through their involvement with other companies 
could be of benefit to the individual director and the Company. 
Executive directors are, with the Board’s permission, allowed to 
accept one such appointment, as long as there is no conflict of 
interest and the time commitment involved does not undermine 
the performance of their duties at the Company. The executive 
director may keep the fees from his external appointment. 
Daniel Dayan is a non executive director of Stobart Group 
Limited having been appointed in July 2009 for which he 
receives an annual fee of £38,000. Daniel Abrams has no such 
appointments at present.
Benefits in Kind
Benefits in kind for the executive directors include private 
medical insurance, personal accident insurance, permanent 
health insurance and life assurance. The executive directors 
are not provided with company cars and do not receive a car 
allowance.
2010 Senior Management Bonus Scheme
The executive directors are eligible to participate in the Senior 
Management Bonus Scheme under which payments may be 
made based on the achievement of challenging financial targets. 
Appropriate financial targets are set by the Remuneration 
Committee at the beginning of the financial year for which the 
bonus is payable.
For 2010, the Bonus Scheme will provide an incentive opportunity 
of up to 100% of base salary for executive directors. The structure 
of the scheme will broadly follow that put in place in 2009. 
50% of the bonus opportunity is measured against the 
achievement of Group operating profit targets (70% in 2009), 
and 50% based on Group working capital as a percentage of 
sales targets (30% in 2009). A bonus of 50% of salary (55% in 
2009) will be payable for achievement of budgeted performance 
under both metrics (which, of themselves, constitute challenging 
targets). In order not to reward underachievement, there will be 
no payout for achievement of below budget performance. 
Consistent with the policy adopted in 2009, bonus awards in 
2010 will be made on a biannual basis. Up to 50% of bonus 
opportunity is based on performance in each half of the year 
(40% and 60% in 2009). In the case of the executive directors, to 
the extent that the performance measures are met, payments 
will normally be made for both first half year and second half 
year performance only after the publication of the full year 
results. This approach gives the Committee the opportunity to 
ensure that the total bonus payable for the year reflects the full 
year Group performance before any actual payment is made. 
The Committee is satisfied that given the particular circumstances 
of the Company this approach to bonus payments is appropriate 
and that there is no likelihood of this approach resulting in the 
aggregate size of bonuses payable in any year not reflecting 
overall Group performance for that year.
Individual personal objectives will not be used to determine 
bonus payments in 2010. Instead the achievement of pre-
determined personal objectives is generally used to assess and 
determine appropriate base salary reviews. 
2009 Bonuses 
For 2009, the Bonus Scheme for executive directors was broadly 
as described above. Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams earned 
bonus in respect of both the Group operating profit and working 
capital targets for the first half year of 29.4% of salary and in the 
second half year of 46.5% of salary. Daniel Dayan’s bonus for the 
full year totalled £280,830 and Daniel Abram’s £163,185.
Executive Long-Term Incentives 
Deferred Share Matching Plan (“DSMP”)
Shareholders approved the DSMP in November 2006 at the time 
of the demerger of the Company from the BBA Group. Under 
the plan, a maximum of 50% of an executive’s net bonus may be 
voluntarily deferred into shares for three years. The deferred 
shares will then be matched at a rate of one to one (on a gross 
basis). The matching awards will vest three years after grant 
if and to the extent that performance targets attached to the 
awards are satisfied. The detailed targets will be discussed 
and communicated to shareholders in advance of such awards 
being made. 
No matching awards have so far been made under the DSMP and 
it is not expected that awards will be made in the forthcoming 
year. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
Shareholders also approved the LTIP in November 2006. In 
summary, under the LTIP, annual awards over shares with a face 
value of up to 100% of salary per annum (200% in exceptional 
circumstances) can be made to executives each year which (in 
normal circumstances) vest three years after grant subject to 
the achievement of stretching performance conditions. 
Following the demerger in 2006, “normal” LTIP awards with 
a market value of up to 80% of salary were made to certain 
senior executives, including the executive directors. In addition, 
to reflect the fact that no long-term incentive award had been 
made to Fiberweb executives in 2006 under the former parent 
company’s share incentive plans due to the demerger process, 
a one-off “demerger” award was made to the same selected  OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    49 
Fiberweb executives who received normal LTIP awards, plus 
an additional group of around 70 senior managers. These 
additional demerger awards ranged from between 40% to 
80% of salary and were subject to a two year performance 
period. The vesting date for the demerger awards followed 
the announcement of Fiberweb’s results for the year ending 
31 December 2008 in February 2009. The performance 
conditions for the demerger awards were not met and no 
awards vested.
Normal awards are subject to Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
and earnings per share (“EPS”) targets. In the case of the 
2006 normal awards one half of each award was based on 
Fiberweb’s TSR performance against the constituents of the 
FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) as set out 
in the table below. The testing date for the TSR performance 
condition was 26 November 2009 and was not achieved, thereby 
resulting in this portion of the 2006 normal award lapsing. 
The remaining half of each 2006 award was subject to a sliding 
scale of real EPS growth targets (as also set out in the table 
below). The EPS targets for the 2006 normal awards measure 
EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 against EPS 
for the year ending 31 December 2009. The base EPS for 2006, 
which was adjusted to reflect ongoing capital, debt, taxation 
and listed company structure as if Fiberweb had existed as 
an independent group since 1 January 2006, is 4.47 pence. 
The primary purpose of the adjustments to the base EPS is to 
give comparability over the performance period. The testing 
date for the EPS performance condition follows the publication 
of Fiberweb’s results for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
The EPS target was achieved and 100% of this portion of the 
award will vest.
No awards were granted in 2007. In May 2008 and June 2009 
normal awards were granted to a small number of senior 
managers, including the executive directors, In 2008 the awards 
were granted in a range between 40% and 100% of salary. The 
2009 awards were granted equivalent to 100% of salary for the 
executive directors and in a range between 60,000 and 100,000 
shares for other participants. 
For the 2008 awards the TSR target is based on absolute 
total shareholder return (see table below), as the Committee 
considered at the relevant time that this was more appropriate 
in the circumstances and provided greater alignment with 
shareholder interests at that time than a relative measure 
of performance. In the case of the 2009 awards, as with 
the 2006 awards, the TSR target is based on Fiberweb’s 
performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts). The EPS target in respect 
of the 2008 awards measures EPS for the financial year ended 
31 December 2007 against EPS for the year ending 31 December 
2010, and for the 2009 awards measures EPS for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2008 against EPS for the year ending 
31 December 2011 (see table below). While, as set out in the 
table below, the EPS targets applying to the 2009 awards were 
lower in absolute terms than those applied to the 2008 award, 
they were considered no less challenging by the Committee 
given the circumstances prevailing at the time.
These performance conditions were chosen to provide a 
balanced long-term incentive for senior executives to generate 
both above market returns to shareholders and strong levels of 
EPS growth.
These awards vest as shown in the table below.
  Proportion of award 
  subject to relevant 
 Performance condition performance condition  How award vests
   2006 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE 
SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year 
performance period commencing on the date of grant*, with full vesting 
at upper quartile.
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS 
growth over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full 
vesting for RPI plus 35%†.
   2008 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests if the Company’s absolute TSR 
(deﬁ ned as the Company’s average share price over the last 90 days of 
the performance period, adjusted to reﬂ ect capital adjustments and the 
value of dividends declared over the performance period) is £0.80 with 
full vesting at £1.50 .
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS 
growth over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full 
vesting for RPI plus 35%.
   2009 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE 
SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year 
performance period commencing on the date of grant, with full vesting 
at upper quartile.     
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for an annual average adjusted EPS 
growth over a three year performance period of RPI plus 15%, with full 
vesting for RPI plus 25%. 
 * Fiberweb’s “base” TSR is calculated over the ﬁ rst 30 days post-demerger.
 † “base year” EPS for these purposes is Fiberweb’s adjusted EPS for the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 December 2006 as described above.
  P Prop t orti ion f of aw d ard
  subject to relevant
 Performance condition performance condition  How award vests
2006 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE
SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year
performance period commencing on the date of grant*, with full vesting
at upper quartile.
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS
growth over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full
vesting for RPI plus 35%†.
  2008 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests if the Company’s absolute TSR
(deﬁ ned as the Company’s average share price over the last 90 days of
the performance period, adjusted to reﬂ ect capital adjustments and the
value of dividends declared over the performance period) is £0.80 with
full vesting at £1.50 .
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for annual average adjusted EPS
growth over a three year performance period of RPI plus 25%, with full
vesting for RPI plus 35%.
2009 Normal LTIP Award
 Total Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE
SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year
performance period commencing on the date of grant, with full vesting
at upper quartile.    
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests for an annual average adjusted EPS
growth over a three year performance period of RPI plus 15%, with full
vesting for RPI plus 25%. 
* Fiberweb’s “base” TSR is calculated over the ﬁ rst 30 days post-demerger.
 † “base year” EPS for these purposes is Fiberweb’s adjusted EPS for the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 December 2006 as described above. 50    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
Sliding scale straight line vesting occurs for performance 
between the relevant threshold and maximum targets.
LTIP awards (and DSMP awards if and when granted) do not 
have a ‘re-testing’ facility. If the performance conditions are not 
met at the end of the relevant performance period, the awards 
will lapse.
The relevant TSR calculations will be undertaken by independent 
advisers. The Company’s external auditors will verify the 
Committee’s calculation of the extent to which the EPS targets 
have been met.
Normal awards will vest no earlier than three years after grant, 
subject to the achievement of the performance conditions 
described above. 
The Committee’s current intention is that any LTIP awards 
made in the future will be subject to a combination of TSR 
and EPS based performance conditions structured in a similar 
manner as described above. The performance targets for any 
such awards will be set by the Committee taking into account 
the outlook for the Company at that time.
The Committee will regularly review the operation of the 
Company’s share based incentive arrangements in light of 
(i) the circumstances and prospects of the Company as they 
develop and (ii) emerging trends in market and best practice.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP 
are set out in Table 3 on page 51. 
Fiberweb Executive Share Option Plan (“ESOP”)
The Company established the ESOP following shareholder 
approval in November 2006. The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for administering the ESOP and the grant of options 
under its terms. Under the ESOP, the normal maximum grant 
limit will be 150% of salary per annum (200% in exceptional 
circumstances).
Options will vest after three years, subject to the achievement 
of performance conditions that are deemed appropriate at the 
time of grant and that will be communicated to shareholders 
before grants are made. It is not currently intended that grants 
will be made under the ESOP and no grants were made during 
the year.
Performance Graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, 
measured by Total Shareholder Return from the date of listing until 
31 December 2009, compared with the equivalent information 
for the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts).
This index has been selected because it is a broad-based equity 
market index of which the Company is a constituent. 
Pensions
The Company makes a pension contribution at a rate of 25% 
of base salary to Mr Dayan which is invested in a defined 
contribution scheme nominated by him. Mr Abrams also received 
a pension contribution at the rate of 15% of base salary which 
was invested in a defined contribution scheme nominated by 
him. These contributions are within a competitive range and are 
set by reference to the relevant market practice for each role. 
In addition, each director fulfilled a contractual obligation to 
contribute at least 7.5% of their salary to the Company defined 
contribution scheme. Details of Company pension contributions 
made in respect of the directors during the year under review 
are set out in Table 1.
 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
 Table 1  Emoluments and fees (audited)
 For the year ended 31 December 2009 
  Base salary Beneﬁ ts Pension Annual Total Total
  and fees in kind Contributions  Bonus 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
 Directors  Note 1    
 M Coster                 103                 24                –             –    127      128 
 D Dayan         370         4         93    281  748     674 
 D Abrams         215         4         32    163    414        336  
 S Dryden          22          –          –  –        22       – 
 R Stillwell          38        –           –         –   38       38 
 P Hickman          13         –         –         –    13       38 
 B Taylorson          32       –         –         –   32       32 
 Total          793          32       125   444 1,394    1,246
Notes:
1.   Beneﬁ ts in kind for Malcolm Coster comprise the value of shares received under his fee enhancement. Those for Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams 
include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance. 
2.  Peter Hickman resigned on 30 April 2009.
3. Steve Dryden was appointed a non executive director with effect from 1 June 2009.
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2009, of £100 invested in Fiberweb 
plc on 17 November 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) Index. The other points plotted are the values 
at intervening ﬁ nancial year-ends.
140
17-Nov-06
Value (£)
Source: Thomson Financial
Fiberweb plc FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) Index 
31-Dec-06 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-07 31-Dec-08
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Total shareholder return OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    51 
 Table 3 
   Awards at the Award Exercise Release 31 December
   start of the year Date Price Date 2009
 D Dayan Demerger Award 155,634 27.11.06 Nil-cost After the publication of results for  nil
      the year ending 31 December 2008 
  Normal Award 155,634 27.11.06 Nil-cost After the publication of results for 155,634
      the year ending 31 December 2009
  Normal Award 857,143 12.05.08    Nil-cost The third anniversary of 857,143
      the date of grant
  Normal Award – 26.06.09 Nil-cost The third anniversary of 571,870
      the date of grant 
   1,168,411    1,584,647
 D Abrams  Normal Award          476,190 12.05.08    Nil-cost The third anniversary of 476,190 
      the date of grant
  Normal Award – 26.06.09 Nil-cost The third anniversary of 332,302
      the date of grant 
   476,190    808,492
 Notes:
 1.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary 5p share on 27 November 2006 was 188.75p. The average middle market quotation for the ﬁ ve day 
period immediately preceding the date of the 2006 awards was 185.05p. In accordance with the Plan rules, this was the price used to determine the 
number of nil-cost awards made to executive directors on 27 November 2006.
 2.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share on 12 May 2008 was 45p. The average middle market quotation for the ﬁ ve day period 
immediately preceding the date of the 2008 awards was 41.75p. In accordance with the Plan rules the price used to determine the number of nil-cost 
awards made to the executive directors on 12 May 2008 was 42p.
 3.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share on 26 June 2009 was 69.25p. The average middle market quotation for the ﬁ ve day period 
immediately preceding the date of the 2009 awards was 64.70p. In accordance with the Plan rules the price used to determine the number of nil-cost 
awards made to the executive directors on 26 June 2009 was 64.70p.
 4.  The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary 5p share on 31 December 2009 was 63.0p (2008: 24.5p). In the period from 5 January 2009 to 
31 December 2009 the highest and lowest prices for Fiberweb shares were 76.0p (2008: 78.0p) and 24.0p (2008: 23.25p) respectively.
 5.  Details of the performance conditions applying to these awards are set out on page 49. 
Awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) – (audited)
 Table 2
  Ordinary 5p shares
 Director At 31 December 2009 1 January 2009
 M Coster  418,412 364,694
 D Dayan 926,850 1,528,676
 D Abrams 325,287 234,979
 R Stillwell 127,500 127,500
 S Dryden 0 0
 B Taylorson 6,000 6,000
 Notes:
 1. There were no changes in directors’ interests in the share capital between 31 December 2009 and 4 March 2010.
 2. The shareholding of Malcolm Coster at 31 December 2009 includes 78,048 shares paid to him under his fee enhancement.
 3. The number of Fiberweb ordinary shares held in the Fiberweb Employee Beneﬁ t Trust as at 31 December 2009 is 1,217 shares.
Directors’ shareholdings
The interests (beneficial and family interests) of the directors in office at 31 December 2009 in the ordinary share capital of the 
Company were as follows: 52    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
continued
 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Non Executive Directors’ Remuneration
The appointment of each of Richard Stillwell, Peter Hickman 
and Brian Taylorson as non executive directors was for an 
initial term of three years effective from the date of demerger 
in November 2006. The letters of appointment of Richard 
Stillwell and Brian Taylorson are dated 19 October 2006 and 
their appointments have been extended until the end of the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting by letters each dated 
17 August 2009. Peter Hickman resigned on 30 April 2009. 
The letter of appointment of Steve Dryden as a non executive 
director is dated 27 May 2009 and his appointment is for a 
period of three years from 1 June 2009.The current letters of 
appointment for all the non executive directors, are available 
for inspection on request. The non executive directors do not 
participate in any Company pension arrangements or incentive 
plans. Appointments can be terminated by either party on three 
months’ notice or compensation, and six months’ notice or 
compensation in the case of the Chairman.
The level of fees for the non executive directors is determined 
by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the 
Chairman and the executive directors. The Chairman’s fees are 
determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Chief 
Executive Officer. Fees are in line with current market practice 
of comparable organisations and are set taking account of the 
time commitment and responsibility of each non executive 
director. The base annual fee is £32,000. The Chairmen of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees each receive an 
annual supplement of £6,000 in recognition of the increased 
commitment placed upon them in performing their roles. 
Richard Stillwell does not receive an additional supplement for 
his role as Senior Independent Director.
The appointment of the Chairman is for a period expiring 
at the end of the annual general meeting in 2010. His letter 
of appointment, 19 October 2006 and amended by a letter 
dated 29 October 2009 is available for inspection on request. 
The Chairman’s base cash fee is £120,000 per annum having 
been increased by £10,000 per annum on 1 November 2009. 
At appointment, and as described in the shareholder 
documentation produced in connection with the demerger, 
he agreed to invest up to £250,000 in the acquisition of the 
Company’s shares on the open market within 30 days of the 
date of the demerger. His fee structure allowed him to receive 
a fee enhancement in the form of ordinary shares equal to one 
sixth of the shares he acquired. This fee enhancement, which 
has now ended, was paid to him at each six month anniversary 
of his appointment until November 2009, provided he continued 
to hold office as Chairman and retained his original investment 
and any additional shares awarded to him (apart from those sold 
to fund any tax or national insurance liabilities arising on the 
award). Mr Coster acquired 132,285 shares in December 2006 
and has received six fee enhancements, each of 22,047 shares, 
paid to him in each of May and November 2007, 2008 and 2009. 
The gross value of these (based on the value of Fiberweb shares 
current at the time) is £91,210.31 in total. After deduction of 
sufficient shares to fund tax and national insurance liabilities, 
he received 13,008 shares under each award.
Non executive directors’ fees have been reviewed and have 
remained unchanged since appointment.
Details of non executive directors’ fees for 2009 are set out in 
Table 1 on page 50. 
This report was approved by the Board on 4 March 2010 and is 
signed on its behalf by:
Richard Stillwell
Chairman, Remuneration Committee OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    53 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law 
the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that 
period.  
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
   select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
   make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
   state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and
   prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
  properly select and apply accounting policies;
   present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
   provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position 
and financial performance; and
   make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
   the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
   the management report, which is incorporated into the 
directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
D Dayan   D Abrams 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
4 March 2010  4 March 2010 54    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF FIBERWEB PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Fiberweb 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income and the related notes 1 to 
35. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the 
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
   give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then 
ended;
   have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
   have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, the 
Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
   certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
   we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
   the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ 
Report in relation to going concern; and
   the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Fiberweb Plc for the year ended 31 December 
2009 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report that is described as having been audited. 
John Adam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, UK
4 March 2010     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    55 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2009
  2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008  
  Underlying* Note i Total Underlying* Note i Total
 Note £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 454.2 – 454.2 512.8 – 512.8
Cost of sales  (355.8) (9.8) (365.6) (415.6) (20.2) (435.8)
Gross proﬁ t  98.4 (9.8) 88.6 97.2 (20.2) 77.0
       
Distribution costs  (39.3) – (39.3) (42.2) – (42.2)
Administrative expenses  (40.3) – (40.3) (37.9) (0.6) (38.5)
Other operating income 4 1.5 – 1.5 1.5 – 1.5
Share of results of associates 
and joint ventures  2.8 (0.1) 2.7 0.2 – 0.2
Proﬁ t on disposal 
of investment 5, 32 – 0.1 0.1 – 3.0 3.0
(Loss)/proﬁ t on disposal 
of businesses 5, 32 – (1.4) (1.4) – 6.6 6.6
Restructuring costs 5 – (6.0) (6.0) – (23.0) (23.0)
Operating proﬁ t/(loss) 
from continuing operations 3, 4, 5 23.1 (17.2) 5.9 18.8 (34.2) (15.4)
       
Investment income 7 – – – 0.9 – 0.9
Other gains and losses 6 – – – 0.8 – 0.8
Finance costs 7 (12.0) – (12.0) (11.5) – (11.5)
Proﬁ t/(loss) before tax  11.1 (17.2) (6.1) 9.0 (34.2) (25.2)
       
Income tax on operations 8 (3.2) 5.8 2.6 (2.9) 3.2 0.3
Recognition of deferred tax 8 4.0 – 4.0 2.9 – 2.9
Tax   0.8 5.8 6.6 – 3.2 3.2
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year 
from continuing operations  11.9 (11.4) 0.5 9.0 (31.0) (22.0)
       
Attributable to:       
Equity holders of the parent  11.9 (11.4) 0.5 9.0 (31.0) (22.0)
*Underlying trading results before items described in note i below
Note i: Restructuring costs and non-recurring items as set out in note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Earnings/(loss) per share, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent
From continuing operations:
Basic 10   0.4   (18.0)p
Diluted 10   0.4    (18.0)p
Adjusted earnings
(1)
 per share, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent
From continuing operations:
Basic 10   9.7p   7.4p
Diluted 10   9.5p   7.3p
(1)  
Adjusted earnings per share are shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and non-recurring items because the 
directors regard this as providing additional useful information on trends in underlying performance. Before recognition of deferred 
tax assets at £4.0 million (2008: £2.9 million), adjusted earnings per share are 6.5p (2008: 5.0p).  56    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2009
   2009 2008
  Note £’m £’m
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year  0.5 (22.0)
Transferred to proﬁ t on disposal of businesses 32 (1.0) (6.1)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (18.2) 52.7
Actuarial losses on deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes 24 (4.9) (5.9)
Cash ﬂ ow hedges:   
– Losses arising during the period  (1.6) (5.3)
– Less: reclassiﬁ cation adjustments for losses included in proﬁ t  3.3 0.3
Tax on items recognised directly in equity  3.1 2.3
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year   (18.8) 16.0
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent  (18.8) 16.0 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    57 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2009
  2009 2008
 Note £’m £’m
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets:    
Goodwill 12 35.1 37.4
Other 12 1.6 1.2
Property, plant and equipment 13 219.3 304.7
Investments in associates and joint ventures 14 50.4 2.2
Other investments 15 0.3 0.3
Deferred tax assets 25 15.6 8.9
  322.3 354.7
Current assets    
Inventories 16 48.9 66.8
Trade and other receivables 17 71.5 97.2
Cash and cash equivalents 17 32.4 26.4
Corporation tax recoverable  1.0 0.7
  153.8 191.1
TOTAL ASSETS  476.1 545.8
   
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables 18 (68.4) (96.2)
Tax liabilities  (7.1) (7.4)
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases 19 (1.4) (2.8)
Bank overdrafts and loans 21 (11.6) (10.5)
Provisions 23 (6.4) (9.1)
  (94.9) (126.0)
Net current assets  58.9 65.1
   
Non-current liabilities    
Bank loans     21 (156.0) (163.0)
Retirement beneﬁ t obligations     24 (34.9) (35.5)
Deferred tax liabilities     25 (15.1) (21.9)
Provisions     23 (2.6) (2.8)
  (208.6) (223.2)
TOTAL LIABILITIES  (303.5) (349.2)
NET ASSETS  172.6 196.6
    
Equity    
Share capital 27 6.1 6.1
Share premium account  84.5 84.5
Merger reserve  93.5 93.5
Other reserve  93.1 93.1
Capital reserve  1.2 0.3
Translation reserve  35.5 54.7
Hedging reserve  (4.8) (6.5)
Retained earnings  (136.5) (129.7)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  172.6 196.0
Minority interest 29 – 0.6
TOTAL EQUITY  172.6 196.6
These consolidated ﬁ nancial statements of Fiberweb plc, registered number 05683352, were approved by the Board of Directors on 
4 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by
D Dayan    D Abrams
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 58    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2009
  2009 2008  
 Note £’m £’m
Operating activities    
Net cash ﬂ ows from operating activities 31 50.6 55.9
Investing activities    
Interest received  – 0.9
Purchase of property plant and equipment  (26.1) (33.3)
Purchase of intangible assets  (0.9) (0.3)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  3.8 0.2
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 32 (1.1) –
Investment in associates and joint ventures 32 (12.4) –
Net proceeds on disposal of businesses 32 0.7 17.2
Cash received from minority interest  – 0.1
Dividends received from associates  – 0.1
Dividends received from investments  – 0.8
Net cash outﬂ ow from investing activities  (36.0) (14.3)
Financing activities    
Interest paid  (9.2) (10.3)
Interest element of ﬁ nance leases paid  (0.1) (0.2)
Dividends paid to related parties  – (0.5)
Dividends paid to shareholders 9 (5.1) (5.1)
Cash received from foreign exchange forward contracts carried at fair value through proﬁ t or loss  0.6 1.6
Drawdown/(repayment) of external loans  4.2 (17.4)
Decrease in ﬁ nance leases  (1.3) (2.7)
Net cash outﬂ ow from ﬁ nancing activities  (10.9) (34.6)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  3.7 7.0
Foreign exchange differences  (2.1) 5.2
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  20.4 8.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  22.0 20.4
Net debt at beginning of year  (149.9) (137.6)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents  3.7 7.0
Increase in external loans  (4.5) (3.6)
Decrease in external loans  0.3 21.0
Facility fees amortised  (0.2) (0.3)
Decrease in ﬁ nance leases  1.3 2.7
Foreign exchange differences  12.7 (39.1)
Net debt at end of year  (136.6) (149.9)
Comprising:    
Bank loans  (157.6) (168.1)
Less: unamortised prepaid facility fees  0.4 0.6
Bank loans 21 (157.2) (167.5)
Finance leases 19 (1.4) (2.8)
Cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts)  22.0 20.4
Net debt at end of year  (136.6) (149.9)
Cash and cash equivalents 17 32.4 26.4
Less: bank overdrafts 17, 21 (10.4) (6.0)
Net cash and cash equivalents for cash ﬂ ow purposes 17 22.0 20.4
      OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    59 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2009
 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  
 Share Share Merger Other Capital Hedging  Translation Retained Minority Total
 Capital Premium Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Interest Equity
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
     
At 1 January 2008 6.1 84.5 93.5 93.1 0.6 (1.5) 8.1 (99.1) – 185.3
Loss for the year – – – – – – – (22.0) – (22.0)
Other comprehensive 
income for the year – – – – – (5.0) 46.6 (3.6) – 38.0
Total comprehensive 
income for the year – – – – – (5.0) 46.6 (25.6) – 16.0
Amount credited to 
equity on lapse of DSP 
share awards subject to 
TSR performance criteria 
(see note 26) – – – – (0.6) – – 0.6 – –
Transfer to income:          
Share option costs – – – – 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Dividends paid – – – – – – – (5.1) – (5.1)
Dividends paid to former 
parent company – – – – – – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Assets received 
from minority – – – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 December 2008 6.1 84.5 93.5 93.1 0.3 (6.5) 54.7 (129.7) 0.6 196.6
Proﬁ t for the year – – – – – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Other comprehensive 
income for the year – – – – – 1.7 (19.2) (1.8) – (19.3)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year – – – – – 1.7 (19.2) (1.3) – (18.8)
Elimination of minority
interest – – – – – –  – (0.4) (0.6) (1.0)
Transfer to income:          
Share option costs – – – – 0.9 – – – – 0.9
Dividends paid – – – – – – – (5.1) – (5.1)
At 31 December 2009 6.1 84.5 93.5 93.1 1.2 (4.8) 35.5 (136.5) – 172.6
Eq E
Sha Share S re Share hare M Me gT Trans ranslati lation R on Retai etained ned 60    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009
1.  General information
Fiberweb plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom 
on 22 January 2006 under the Companies Act 1985. The Fiberweb 
Group (“Fiberweb” or “the Group”) is an international Group of 
businesses dedicated to the development, manufacturing and 
supply of specialist nonwoven fabrics.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because that is the currency of the ultimate parent company. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies 
set out in note 2.
2.  Accounting Policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on an 
historical cost basis, adjusted for certain derivative financial 
instruments which are stated at fair value. 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Policies (“UK GAAP”).
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on 
a going concern basis as explained in the Directors’ Report on 
page 40.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”). The financial statements have also been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union (“EU”) 
and therefore the Group financial statements comply with 
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
Adoption of new and revised Standards
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards 
and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the 
amounts reported in these financial statements.
Standards affecting presentation and disclosure (see Changes 
in accounting policies):
   IFRS 8 Operating Segments
   IAS 1 (revised 2007) Presentation of Financial Statements
   Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments 
(Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures)
Note that with respect to the amendments to IFRS 7 above, the 
Group has elected not to provide comparative information for 
these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance 
with the transitional reliefs offered in these amendments.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial 
position:
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations 
have been adopted in the current year. Their adoption has not 
had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these 
financial statements but may impact the accounting for future 
transactions and arrangements:
  
 Improvements to IFRSs (2008) including:
 – Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets
 – Amendment to IAS 40 Investment Property
 –  Amendment to IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants 
and Disclosure of Government Assistance
 –  Amendment to IFRS 2 Share based payment – Vesting 
Conditions and Cancellations
    FRS 1 (amended)/IAS 27 (amended) Cost of an Investment in 
a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate
    Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure 
regarding reclassifications of financial assets
   IAS 23 (revised 2007) Borrowing Costs
   Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – 
Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on 
Liquidation
   Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement 
   IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 
Embedded Derivatives Amendments to IFRIC 9 Reassessment 
of Embedded Derivatives
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been 
applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet 
effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the 
EU):
   IFRS 2 (amended 2009) Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transactions
   Improvement to IFRSs 2009
   IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations
   IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
   IAS 24 (revised 2009) Related Party Disclosures
  
 IAS 27 (revised 2008) Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements
   IAS 28 (revised 2008) Investments in Associates
   Improvements to IFRSs (April 2009)
  
 IAS 32 (amended 2009) Classification of Rights Issues
   IAS 39 (amended 2008) Eligible Hedged Items
   IFRIC 14 (amended 2009) Prepayments of a Minimum Funding 
Requirement
   IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
   IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity 
Instruments
The directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards 
and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact 
on the financial statements of the Group except for treatment of 
acquisition of subsidiaries and associates when IFRS 3 (revised 
2008), IAS 27 (revised 2008) and IAS 28 (revised 2008) come into 
effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date 
is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning 
on or after 1 July 2009.
The principal accounting policies used in the preparation of 
these financial statements are detailed below. These accounting 
policies, presentation and methods of computation have been 
consistently applied to all periods presented, but note the 
change in segmental information described below. OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    61 
2.  Accounting Policies continued
Changes in accounting policies
Presentation of financial statements
IAS 1 (revised) requires the presentation of a statement of 
changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the 
income statement and statement of comprehensive income. As a 
result, a condensed consolidated statement of changes in equity 
has been included in the primary financial statements, showing 
changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
Segmental information
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted International 
Financial Reporting Standard 8 “Operating Segments”.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the 
basis of internal reports about components of the Group that 
are regularly reviewed by the Fiberweb Executive to allocate 
resources to the segments and assess their performance. 
In contrast, the predecessor Standard (IAS 14 “Segmental 
Reporting”) required the Group to identify two sets of segments 
(business and geographical) using a risks and rewards approach, 
with the Group’s system of internal financial reporting to key 
management personnel serving only as the starting point for the 
identification of such segments.
Prior to the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group’s 
primary segments were geographic on the basis of the 
underlying operational management structure and reporting 
hierarchy. During 2008, following a series of restructuring 
initiatives and divestments, including reorganisation of the 
executive management team, the Group’s primary reporting 
segments were redefined according to markets served: Hygiene 
and Industrial. Segmental information for the year ended 
31 December 2008 was presented on the new market basis, with 
comparatives restated accordingly. 
The Hygiene and Industrial segmentation reported in 2008 
was based on the classification of reporting entities according 
to the principal market served by each operational site. From 
1 January 2009, Fiberweb now manages the trading results of 
individual reporting entities and operational sites analysed by 
the specific markets they serve. 2008 comparatives have been 
restated accordingly. Segmentation of assets and liabilities 
remains on the former reporting entity basis, as reported to the 
Fiberweb Executive.
In addition, management reviews trading results of the divisions 
before allocation of global Research and Development costs 
(R&D) and Health and Safety expenses (HSE) – shown in the 
tables in note 3a as underlying trading profit. Historically, the 
Group has published segment results after allocation of these 
global costs on the basis of external sales – shown in the tables 
in note 3a as underlying operating profit. In the interest of 
consistency, the tables in note 3a continue to report underlying 
operating profit, as well as the trading results reviewed by 
management in accordance with IFRS 8.
The above changes did not result in any restatement of the prior 
year reported consolidated balance sheet.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Fiberweb. Control exists 
when Fiberweb has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern 
the financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain 
economic benefit from its activities. The financial statements 
of subsidiaries are included in the Group’s financial statements 
from the date that control commences until the date that 
control ceases in accordance with the acquisition method of 
accounting. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than 
subsidiary or joint venture undertakings where the Group is in 
a position to exercise a significant influence, typically through 
the participation in the financial and operating decisions of the 
investee. Investments in associated undertakings are stated at 
cost, plus the Group’s share of post- acquisition reserves, less 
dividends received and provision for impairment.
Joint ventures are those entities other than subsidiary or 
associated undertakings where the Group is deemed to have 
joint control over the financial and operating policies of the 
entity. This is usually contractual. Investments in joint ventures 
are accounted for using the equity method under IAS 31 and 
therefore are treated as investments in associated undertakings 
(above) upon consolidation.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the 
purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets 
given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, 
plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 
are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and 
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, 
the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially 
measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of fair value of the 
consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired, 
is capitalised and tested for impairment on an annual basis, 
or more frequently when there is an indication that there may 
be an impairment. For the purposes of impairment testing, 
goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating 
units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less 
than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill 
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in 
subsequent periods.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled 
entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition 
to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill 62    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued
2.  Accounting Policies continued
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has 
not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable. Group revenue represents amounts 
receivable for goods supplied by the Group in the normal course 
of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related 
taxes and excluding intercompany transactions and sales by 
associated undertakings. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Research and development expenditure 
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in 
which it is incurred. An internally-generated intangible asset 
arising from the Group’s development expenditure is recognised 
only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable 
that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the 
development costs of the asset can be measured reliably. 
Share-based payments 
Fiberweb operates four share-based compensation plans which 
are detailed in note 26. The equity-settled share-based payments 
under these schemes are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on 
a straight line basis over the vesting period based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
No expense is recognised (and any previously recognised 
expense is reversed) for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except where vesting is conditional upon a measure linked 
to Fiberweb plc’s share price (“a market condition”) or other 
market conditions. The likelihood of achieving the market 
condition is taken into account in the fair value and, therefore, 
the award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether or 
not the market condition is satisfied, provided that any other 
performance condition is met.
When an award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on 
the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for 
the award is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cost of share-based compensation schemes is recognised 
as an expense within staff costs in the income statement (see 
note 11). 
Leases 
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights 
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated 
as if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments 
are shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation 
values of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over 
the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of 
the assets concerned. The capital elements of future leases 
are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are 
charged to the income statement over the period of the leases 
to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital 
payments outstanding. 
For all other leases (operating leases), the rental payments are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over 
the lives of the leases.
Post-retirement benefits 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost 
is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out annually on 31 December. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period 
in which they occur. They are recognised outside profit or loss 
and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income.  
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance 
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting 
from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the 
present value of available refunds and reductions in future 
contributions to the plan. 
Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined 
by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries. In 
certain overseas subsidiaries, to comply with local legislation 
and to obtain taxation advantages, provision is made for the 
total actuarial liability less the current surrender value of the 
supporting investment. 
Treasury 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at 
the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance 
sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that 
date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates 
subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the income 
statement. Where monetary assets and liabilities have been 
designated effective hedges against net investments in foreign 
operations, the exchange gains and losses arising on those assets 
and liabilities are taken directly to reserves.
The income statements of overseas operations are translated 
into Sterling at the average exchange rates for the year and 
their balance sheets are translated into Sterling at the exchange 
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences 
arising on consolidation are taken to reserves, subject to the 
requirements of IAS 21 “The Effect of Changes in Foreign 
Exchange Rates”. All other translation differences are taken to 
the income statement. 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise 
foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity 
derivatives. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes 
to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the 
Group in line with the Group’s risk management policies. The 
Group designates these derivatives as either hedges of highly 
probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency 
risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges) or hedges of 
investments in foreign operations.  OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    63 
2.  Accounting Policies continued
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet 
at fair value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative 
instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated 
as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred 
in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in the 
same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results 
in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial 
liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are 
transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement 
of the cost of the asset or liability. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes 
the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity 
at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the 
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted 
for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge 
is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Gains or losses deferred in the foreign currency translation 
reserve are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the 
foreign operation. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 
income statement as they arise. 
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and 
after the share of results of associates and joint ventures, but 
before investment income and finance costs (see note 4).
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year 
and takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax 
bases in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for 
using the balance sheet liability method. 
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted 
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates 
where the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary 
difference is not foreseeable. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance 
sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for 
impairment. Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation 
of property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value 
and is calculated on a straight line basis over the following 
estimated useful lives of the assets:
Land  not depreciated
Buildings  40 years maximum
Plant and Machinery (including essential    
commissioning costs) 3–15 years
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised 
within Plant and Machinery. 
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction 
of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised 
as part of those assets. The commencement of capitalisation 
begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset 
are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the 
asset ready for use are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when 
substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset 
ready for use are complete. 
Intangible assets excluding goodwill 
Licenses are shown at amortised cost. Amortisation provided on 
the cost of licenses is calculated on a straight line basis over the 
useful life of the licenses. 
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related 
item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an 
intangible asset. Computer software is capitalised on the basis 
of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific 
software. Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and 
is calculated on a straight line basis over the useful life of the 
software. 
The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible 
assets arising on acquisitions. An intangible asset will be 
recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from 
contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be 
measured reliably. Amortisation is provided on the fair value of 
the asset, excluding goodwill, and is calculated on a straight line 
basis over its useful life.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding 
goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value 
of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment 
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows  64    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued
2.  Accounting Policies continued
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which 
the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite life 
is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which 
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to 
its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a 
revaluation decrease. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that 
the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in 
prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a 
revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment 
loss is treated as a revaluation increase. 
Inventory 
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate 
proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in 
progress and finished goods. Cost is calculated on a first in 
first out basis. Provision is made for slow moving or obsolete 
inventory as appropriate. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Financial assets
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade 
date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under 
contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within 
the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are 
initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except 
for those financial assets classified as at fair value through 
profit and loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: 
financial assets ‘at fair value through profit and loss’ (FVTPL), 
‘held to maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) 
financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification 
depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is 
determined at the time of initial recognition. As at 31 December 
2009 and 2008, the Group did not have any ‘held-to-maturity’ 
investments or AFS financial assets. The Group does not enter 
into hedge transactions for speculative purposes.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial 
asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:
   it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the near future; or 
   it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments 
that the Group manages together and has a recent actual 
pattern of short-term profit-taking; or
   it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a 
hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading 
may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
   such designation eliminates or significantly reduces 
a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would 
otherwise arise; or
   the financial asset forms part of a Group of financial 
assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed 
and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in 
accordance with the Group’s documented risk management 
or investment strategy, and information about the Group is 
provided internally on that basis; or
   it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement permits the entire combined contract 
(asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain 
or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or 
interest earned on the financial asset. 
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and 
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is 
recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for 
short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would 
be immaterial.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at 
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.  OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    65 
2.  Accounting Policies continued
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified 
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all 
of its liabilities. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities 
‘at FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the 
financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as 
at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if:
   it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in 
the near future; or
   it is part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments 
that the Group manages together and has a recent actual 
pattern of short-term profit-taking; or
   it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a 
hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading 
may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
   such designation eliminates or significantly reduces 
a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would 
otherwise arise; or
   the financial liability forms part of a Group of financial 
assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed 
and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in 
accordance with the Group’s documented risk management 
or investment strategy, and information about the Group is 
provided internally on that basis; or
   it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement permits the entire combined contract 
(asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain 
or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest 
paid on the financial liability. 
Other ﬁ nancial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially 
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised 
on an effective yield basis. The effective interest method is 
a method of calculating the amortised costs of a financial 
liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter 
period. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis 
to the profit and loss account using the effective interest 
method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument 
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which 
they arise. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty 
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year, are discussed below. 
The judgements used by management in the application of the 
Group’s accounting policies in respect of these key areas of 
estimation are considered to be the most significant. 
Impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets 
Determining whether goodwill or tangible fixed assets are 
impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated 
or the individual assets. The value in use calculation requires 
the entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from 
the cash-generating unit or asset and a suitable discount rate 
in order to calculate present value. The carrying amount of 
goodwill and tangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date 
was £35.1 million (2008: £37.4 million) and £219.3 million (2008: 
£304.7 million) respectively. 
Details regarding the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying 
value and assumptions used in carrying out the impairment 
reviews are provided in notes 12 and 13. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
Determining the present value of future obligations of 
pension and other post-retirement benefit schemes requires 
an estimation of future mortality rates, future changes in 
employee benefits and length of service. These assumptions 
are determined in association with qualified actuaries. The 
net pension liability related to defined benefit type schemes at 
the balance sheet date was £34.9 million (2008: £35.5 million). 
Details regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in 
arriving at the carrying value are provided in note 24. 66    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued
3.  Segmental information
As explained fully in note 2, the Group’s reportable segments are Hygiene and Industrial. 
3a.  Segmental revenues and results
       Unallocated
     Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total
Year ended 31 December 2009    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin    271.5 182.7 – 454.2
Underlying trading proﬁ t    19.5 17.5 (13.9) 23.1
Allocation of global R&D and HSE costs    (4.0) (2.7) 6.7 –
Underlying operating proﬁ t    15.5 14.8 (7.2) 23.1
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items   (17.6) 0.4 – (17.2)
Segment result from continuing operations *   (2.1) 15.2 (7.2) 5.9
Finance costs       (12.0)
Loss before tax       (6.1)
Tax        6.6
Proﬁ t after tax       0.5
* Segment result includes £2.7 million share of results from associates and joint ventures within Hygiene.
       Unallocated
     Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total
Other information    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Underlying operating proﬁ t margin %    5.7% 8.1% – 5.1%
Capital additions    14.2 3.9 1.9 20.0 
Depreciation and amortisation    21.5 8.3 0.2 30.0 
Impairment losses recognised in proﬁ t or loss   – 0.3 – 0.3
Asset write-downs recognised in proﬁ t or loss   13.4 – – 13.4
      Unallocated
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total
Year ended 31 December 2008    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin    325.2 187.6 – 512.8
Underlying trading proﬁ t    17.1 11.8 (10.1) 18.8
Allocation of global R&D and HSE costs    (3.1) (1.7) 4.8 –
Underlying operating proﬁ t    14.0 10.1 (5.3) 18.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items   (39.7) 6.2 (0.7) (34.2)
Segment result from continuing operations *   (25.7) 16.3 (6.0) (15.4)
Investment revenue       0.9
Other gains and losses       0.8
Finance costs       (11.5)
Loss before tax       (25.2)
Tax           3.2
Loss after tax           (22.0)
* Segment result includes £0.2 million share of results from associates and joint ventures within Hygiene. OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    67 
3a.  Segmental revenues and results continued
Year ended 31 December 2008 continued      Unallocated
    Hygiene Industrial Corporate Total
Other information    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Underlying operating proﬁ t margin %    4.3% 5.4% – 3.7%
Capital additions    31.4 3.2 – 34.6
Depreciation and amortisation    23.2 7.7 0.2 31.1
Impairment losses recognised in proﬁ t or loss   14.2 – – 14.2
Asset write-downs recognised in proﬁ t or loss   19.6 0.1 – 19.7
Note that there are no inter-segment sales made by the Group.
3b.  Segmental assets and liabilities
 31 December 31 December
 2009 2008   
 £’m £’m
Assets:   
Hygiene 273.4 363.5
Industrial 100.5 143.0
Consolidated total assets, excluding tax assets and cash 373.9 506.5
Unallocated corporate assets 102.2 39.3
Consolidated total assets 476.1 545.8
   
Liabilities:   
Hygiene 82.9 87.3
Industrial 23.1 44.0
Segment liabilities, excluding tax liabilities and debt 106.0 131.3
Unallocated corporate liabilities 197.5 217.9
Consolidated total liabilities 303.5 349.2
3c.  Geographical information
 Year ended 31 December 2009  Year ended 31 December 2008
 External sales  Non-current External sales Non-current
 by origin assets by origin assets
 £’m £’m £’m £’m
United Kingdom 18.2 69.0 17.9 20.1
United States 170.2 45.7 183.2 75.6
Sweden 48.0 36.8 61.1 40.9
Germany 77.9 20.2 77.6 35.1
Italy 67.4 78.2 70.9 83.2
Other* 72.5 56.8 102.1 90.9
 454.2 306.7 512.8 345.8
* Other includes countries which the Group does not consider to be individually material.
As required by IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current assets are shown above excluding investments in associates and joint 
ventures, ﬁ nancial instruments, deferred tax assets, post employment beneﬁ t assets, and rights arising under insurance contracts.
3d.  Information about major customers
In the year ended 31 December 2009, revenues of £85.0 million (2008: £99.9 million) and £18.0 million (2008: £18.3 million) are included 
within Hygiene and Industrial revenues respectively which arose from sales to the Group’s single largest customer. 
No other customer formed greater than 10% of external revenues within the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008. 68    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
4.  Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
      2009  2008   
     Note £’m  £’m
Net foreign exchange gains      (0.1)  (0.3)
Change in the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding at year end and classiﬁ ed as FVTPL  –  (0.1)
Other operating income      (1.5)  (1.5)
Research and development costs      7.7  7.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    13 29.7  30.6
Impairment and write downs of property, plant and equipment   13 13.4  33.9
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in administration expenses)   12 0.3  0.5
Total depreciation and amortisation expense     43.4  65.0
Total employee costs     11 89.0  86.6
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense     355.8  415.6
Write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense:
– underlying  0.1  –
– non-recurring  0.3  0.5
Total write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense  0.4  0.5
Current year other operating income of £1.5 million includes £0.5 million of income from the FitesaFiberweb joint venture in 
accordance with a transition service agreement (see also note 34). The balance comprises government grants, rental income and 
other sundry items. 
Other operating income of £1.5 million in the year ended 31 December 2008 included £0.6 million in respect of insurance claim 
proceeds received in connection with a ﬁ re in 2005 in one of our Hygiene plants. The balance comprises government grants, rental 
income and other sundry items. 
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
 2009 2008
 £’m £’m
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.5 0.7
Total 0.7 0.9
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services were: 
 –   £424,000 (2008: £254,000) in respect of other services pursuant to legislation which comprises investment circular work, 
principally relating to the FitesaFiberweb joint venture and the review of the interim management report. 2008 comprises 
investment circular work on the disposal of Bidim and review of the interim management report;
 –  £24,000 (2008: £210,000) in respect of taxation services;
 –   £295,000 (2008: £nil) in respect of Corporate Finance services. This comprises due diligence services principally relating to 
the FitesaFiberweb joint venture; and
 – £11,000 (2008: £nil) in respect of other services. 
 
5.  Restructuring costs and non-recurring items
      2009 2008   
     Note £’m £’m
Cost of sales      (9.8) (20.2)
Administrative expenses      – (0.6)
Non-recurring items in respect of FitesaFiberweb JV     (0.1) –
Proﬁ t on disposal of investment     32 0.1 3.0
(Loss)/proﬁ t on disposal of businesses     32 (1.4) 6.6
Restructuring costs      (6.0) (23.0)
      (17.2) (34.2)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    69 
5.  Restructuring costs and non-recurring items continued
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items included within statutory operating proﬁ t before tax amounted to £17.2 million 
(2008: £34.2 million). The main items included within this are:
• Year ended 31 December 2009
 – Non-recurring cost of sales of £9.8 million comprising
  (i)   £13.4 million write-down of plant and equipment in Peine, Germany as we completed the rationalisation of our European 
production capacity;
  (ii) £0.3 million write-down of inventory in respect of the cessation of our air quality ﬁ ltration business, AQF, in the US;
  (iii) £0.8 million gain on sale of Terram’s previously mothballed production line to our associated undertaking in India 
     (see note 34);
  (iv) £2.1 million gain on sale of previously impaired production equipment from our US Hygiene business; and
  (v)   £1.0 million gain in respect of the reversal of previously impaired assets at AQF to write-up the assets to net realisable 
value – the assets were sold in January 2010 (see note 17). 
 – £0.1 million loss in respect of the Group’s share of non-recurring restructuring costs incurred in the FitesaFiberweb JV.
 – £0.1 million gain on disposal of the Group’s 25.1% interest in CoraTech GmbH.
 – Non-recurring losses in respect of the Group’s FitesaFiberweb joint venture of £1.4 million (see note 32), comprising: 
  (i)   a net charge of £2.4 million in respect of our 50% share of the Fiberweb assets contributed to the joint venture offset by 
our 50% share of assets contributed to the joint venture by our partner, Petropar S.A.; and
  (ii)  a credit of £1.0 million in respect of recycled exchange gains on disposal of our Mexican businesses into the joint 
venture.
 –  Non-recurring restructuring costs of £6.0 million comprising severance costs primarily within the Group’s European Hygiene 
operations in respect of the completion of restructuring programmes to support the rationalisation of capacity announced in 
January 2009.
• Year ended 31 December 2008
 – Non-recurring cost of sales of £20.2 million comprising:
  (i)   impairments and write-downs of £20.0 million in respect of Hygiene production equipment: £18.7 million in respect of 
Peine, Germany and £1.3 million in respect of Italy and France as we further rationalised our European capacity; 
  (ii)  a credit of £0.4 million in respect of government grants relating to European Industrial equipment written down in 2007 
– these grants were previously at risk of having to be repaid; and
  (iii) losses of £0.6 million realised on disposal of written down inventory in our US Industrial nonwovens business.
 –  Non-recurring administrative expenses of £0.6 million in respect of professional fees and other costs related to the aborted 
discussions between Fiberweb and Avgol Industries 1953 Limited in respect of a possible offer for Fiberweb.
 –  £3.0 million proﬁ t on disposal of the Group’s 15% equity investment in Saudi German Nonwovens Products Co. (“SGN”) – 
refer note 32.
 –  £6.6 million proﬁ t on disposal of the Group’s shares in Fiberweb Bidim Industria e Comecio de Nao-Tecidos Ltda (“Bidim”), 
including £6.1 million in respect of recycled exchange gains previously recognised in the Group’s translation reserve – 
refer note 32.
 – Non-recurring restructuring costs of £23.0 million comprising:
  (i)   £17.3 million in respect of the closure of our Korma, Italy facility, including £13.8 million of asset write-downs, £2.1 million 
of severance costs, £0.5 million in respect of onerous lease commitments and £0.9 million estimated costs to complete 
equipment dismantling and site closure;
  (ii)  £5.5 million of severance costs across both Hygiene and Industrial businesses in respect of ongoing restructuring 
programmes to streamline the Group’s structure to better serve customers; and
  (iii)  £0.2 million of costs to relocate certain assets in connection with the further rationalisation of the Group’s Hygiene site 
at Simpsonville, SC, USA.  70    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
6.  Other gains and losses
Other gains of £0.8 million in the year ended 31 December 2008 comprise dividends received from SGN prior to its disposal in May 
2008 (see note 32).
7.  Investment income and ﬁ nance costs
        2009 2008   
        £’m £’m
Interest on bank deposits       – 0.9
Total investment income       – 0.9
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts       (5.6) (9.4)
Interest on obligations under ﬁ nance leases      (0.1) (0.2)
Total interest expense       (5.7) (9.6)
Net ﬁ nance expense from pension schemes (note 24)      (2.3) (0.9)
Other ﬁ nance costs       (0.7) (0.7)
        (8.7) (11.2)
Fair value losses on interest rate swaps transferred from equity for 
cash ﬂ ow hedges of ﬂ oating rate debt       (3.3) (0.3)
Total ﬁ nance costs       (12.0) (11.5)
Other ﬁ nance costs comprise amortisation of prepaid facility fees of £0.2 million (2008: £0.3 million) and commitment fees of £0.5 
million (2008: £0.4 million) paid on the Group’s undrawn revolving credit facility.
8.  Taxation
   
 2009 2008   
 £’m £’m
Current tax  
Current income tax charge on underlying activities 4.8 5.3
Current income tax (credit)/ charge on non-recurring activities (0.8) 1.8
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (2.3) 0.3
Deferred tax  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences on underlying activities 0.6 (2.7)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences on non-recurring activities (5.0) (5.0)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.1 –
Income tax credit on operations (2.6) (0.3)
Partial recognition of temporary differences on underlying activities in respect of US operations (4.0) (2.9)
Total income tax credit for the year (6.6) (3.2)
The total tax credit for the year includes a charge of £0.6 million (2008: a credit of £1.2 million) in respect of UK operations. All other 
tax items relate to overseas operations. Domestic income tax is calculated at 28% (2008: 28.5%) of the estimated assessable proﬁ t 
for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
In the light of post-demerger restructuring action and strategic focus in the Group’s US operations and taking into account the forecast 
future proﬁ tability of the US operations, including management’s view of possible sensitivities to those forecasts, the Group has 
recognised a further asset of £5.9 million (2008: £5.7 million) in respect of US deductible temporary differences, generating a credit 
of £4.0 million (2008: £2.9 million) to the underlying deferred tax expense for the year and a credit of £1.9 million (2008: £1.5 million) 
directly in equity in relation to temporary differences on retirement beneﬁ t obligations. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    71 
8.  Taxation continued
The total income tax credit for the year can be reconciled to the total accounting proﬁ t as follows:
 2009 2008   
 £’m £’m
Loss before tax (6.1) (25.2)
Standard UK tax rate 28.0% 28.5%
Loss before tax multiplied by the standard UK tax rate (1.7) (7.2)
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 2.1
Losses not recognised 0.1 9.8
Increased recognition of deferred tax assets (4.0) (5.0)
Items on which deferred tax has not been recognised (1.0) (4.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (2.2) 0.1
Effects of different tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 0.1 1.1
Tax credit for the year (6.6) (3.2)
Overall effective tax rate 108.2% 12.7%
Effective tax rate on underlying proﬁ ts –7.2% –%
The difference between the actual tax credit and that expected on the loss for the year has been based on the UK rate of Corporation 
tax of 28% (2008: 28.5%). The comparison of actual tax is made against the UK standard rate rather than the blended rate of taxation 
for the Group, in order to provide a more consistent approach across the two years. The use of a blended rate would lead to a distortion 
year on year as the mix of proﬁ ts and losses has changed considerably as have the underlying tax rates in various jurisdictions. 
In addition to the income tax expense charged to proﬁ t or loss, a net £3.1 million has been credited to equity in the period, comprising 
a debit of £0.5 million in respect of fair value adjustments on ﬁ nancial instruments and a credit of £3.6 million in respect of retirement 
beneﬁ t obligations (2008: a net credit of £2.3 million comprising a credit of £1.4 million in respect of fair value adjustments on 
ﬁ nancial instruments, a charge of £0.6 million in respect of exchange gains and a credit of £1.5 million in respect of retirement beneﬁ t 
obligations). 
The effective rate of tax on underlying continuing proﬁ ts in the current year of £11.1 million is -7.2%, due to the credit of £4.0 million 
on partial recognition of the US deferred tax assets. Excluding this credit, the effective rate of tax on underlying continuing proﬁ ts was 
28.8%, beneﬁ ting from the share of post-tax proﬁ ts from the FitesaFiberweb joint venture of £2.7 million included within underlying 
proﬁ t before tax of £11.1 million. 
The effective rate of tax on underlying continuing proﬁ ts in the year ended 31 December 2008 of £9.0 million was nil%, due to the 
credit of £2.9 million on partial recognition of the US deferred tax assets. Excluding this credit, the effective rate of tax on underlying 
continuing proﬁ ts was 32.2%. 
9.  Dividends
         2009 2008   
         £’m £’m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:  
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 2.5 pence (2007: 2.5 pence)     3.0 3.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 1.7 pence (2008: 1.7 pence)    2.1 2.1
Dividends paid to former parent company        – 0.5
         5.1 5.6
Proposed ﬁ nal dividend for the period ended 31 December 2009 
of 2.5 pence (2008: 2.5 pence) per share        3.0 3.0
The proposed ﬁ nal dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these ﬁ nancial statements.
Non-recurring dividends of £0.5 million paid to the former parent company in the year ended 31 December 2008 relate to the 
distribution of proﬁ ts earned by the Group’s German subsidiaries in the period prior to demerger in November 2006. Settlement was 
made in accordance with the Demerger Agreement following the ﬁ ling of the local statutory accounts for the pre-demerger period. 72    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
10.  Earnings per share
     2009 2008  
     £’m £’m
Earnings  
Basic and diluted:  
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year – attributable to ordinary shareholders   0.5 (22.0)
 Restructuring costs and non-recurring items (note 5)    17.2 34.2
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items (note 8)   (5.8) (3.2)
Adjusted earnings     11.9 9.0
  
Number of shares  
Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares:  
For basic earnings per share     122,440,375 122,440,375
For diluted unadjusted earnings per share     125,248,580 122,440,375
For diluted adjusted earnings per share     125,248,580 123,406,230
  
Earnings/(loss) per share  
Basic:  
Adjusted      9.7p 7.4p
Unadjusted      0.4p (18.0)p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted      9.5p 7.3p
Unadjusted      0.4p (18.0)p
Adjusted earnings per share are shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and non-recurring items because the 
directors consider this provides additional useful information on underlying performance trends. 
Before recognition of deferred tax assets (refer to note 8) of £4.0 million (2008: £2.9 million), adjusted earnings per share for the year 
ended 31 December 2009 are 6.5p (2008: 5.0p). 
11.  Employees
      2009 2008   
      Number Number
Average monthly number (including executive directors)  
By region  
Europe      824 907
North America      715 828
Rest of World      397 423
      1,936 2,158
By market  
Hygiene      1,120 1,233
Industrial      816 925
      1,936 2,158
      £’m £’m
Employment costs  
Wages and salaries      74.0 72.4
Social security costs       12.2 11.2
Pension costs (note 24)       1.9 2.7
Expense of share-based payments (note 26)      0.9 0.3
      89.0 86.6
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    73 
12.  Intangible assets
  Software & 
 Goodwill Licences Total   
 £’m £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January 2008 74.9 6.6 81.5
Exchange adjustments 27.4 4.0 31.4
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items – (0.1) (0.1)
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary – (0.3) (0.3)
Additions – 0.1 0.1
At 1 January 2009 102.3 10.3 112.6
Exchange adjustments (10.8) (1.2) (12.0)
Additions 1.2 0.9 2.1
At 31 December 2009 92.7 10.0 102.7
   
Amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2008 (46.9) (4.1) (51.0)
Exchange adjustments (18.0) (4.8) (22.8)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items – 0.1 0.1
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary – 0.2 0.2
Charge for the year – (0.5) (0.5)
At 1 January 2009 (64.9) (9.1) (74.0)
Exchange adjustments 7.3 1.0 8.3
Charge for the year – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2009 (57.6) (8.4) (66.0)
   
Carrying amount:   
31 December 2009 35.1 1.6 36.7
   
31 December 2008 37.4 1.2 38.6
Licences are amortised over the period to which they relate, which is on average ﬁ ve years. 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash- generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to 
beneﬁ t from the business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 
      2009 2008   
      £’m £’m
Veratec      5.0 5.0
Tenotex      16.2 18.1
US Industrial (Reemay)      12.0 13.5
Coronor (see note 32)      1.2 –
Other – several CGUs      0.7 0.8
      35.1 37.4
The business tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, based on pre-tax cash ﬂ ows discounted using 
a pre-tax discount rate. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates 
and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. 
The business prepares cash ﬂ ow forecasts derived from the most recent ﬁ nancial budgets approved by management. Growth rates 
used for 2010 to 2012 are based on selling price and cost assumptions for each business individually, built from management’s current 
knowledge and speciﬁ c expectations for future proﬁ t evolution in the short term. Forecasts speciﬁ cally exclude any incremental proﬁ ts 
that may be generated through targeted investments in new technologies or strategic markets. Cash ﬂ ows are then extrapolated for 
the following 40 years; growth rates from 2012 are assumed to be nil. 74    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
12.  Intangible assets continued
Value in use calculations assume an annual level of maintenance capital expenditure throughout the forecast period, with periodic 
higher investments included based on previous experience of the useful lives of the equipment in use. Speciﬁ c capital injections to 
fund projects and new technologies are excluded from value in use calculations. 
The rate used to discount the forecast cash ﬂ ows is estimated by reference to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and the 
degree of risk that management feels attaches to a CGU. The discount rates applied in the review at December 2009 range from 10% 
to 12% (2008: 10% to 12%). 
Last year, growth in the European Industrial businesses which support the Veratec goodwill was predicted to be lower than in previous 
years in view of the downturn in the European construction industry and, to reﬂ ect the increased economic risk, a higher discount rate 
of 12% was applied. During the year ended 31 December 2009, divisional performance has rallied as a result of strategic initiatives 
to strengthen the management team, improve the product ranges offered and rationalise the mix to generate margin improvement. 
Accordingly forecasts project a continuation of this improving trend and the discount rate applied to this division has been reduced 
to 10.2%. Headroom in respect of the Veratec goodwill would be eroded at a discount rate of 17.0%. 
Tenotex is a key part of the Group’s European Consumer Fabric business and, as such, operates in the more defensive Hygiene 
market, where demand for its products has remained broadly stable and has beneﬁ ted from the upgraded resin-bond line that was 
successfully commissioned at the end of 2008. The discount rate applied to this CGU is 10.2%. Headroom has improved accordingly, 
such that a discount rate of 18.5% would need to be applied before goodwill is impaired. 
The Reemay goodwill is comfortably supported by the US Industrial forecasts. A discount rate of 10.2% in line with the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital has been applied. 
Management believes that there are no reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions which would result in the carrying 
amount of the CGUs exceeding the recoverable amounts.
13.  Property, plant and equipment
 Land & Fixtures & 
 Buildings Equipment Total  
 £’m £’m £’m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2008 104.4 425.1 529.5
Exchange adjustments 37.5 131.8 169.3
Additions 4.8 29.7 34.5
Assets contributed by minority interest – 0.5 0.5
Disposals (0.1) (2.3) (2.4)
Derecognised on disposal of businesses (4.5) (10.9) (15.4)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items (4.1) (41.0) (45.1)
At 1 January 2009 138.0 532.9 670.9
Exchange adjustments (13.2) (48.3) (61.5)
Additions 1.7 17.4 19.1
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary (see note 32) – 0.8 0.8
Assets contributed to FitesaFiberweb joint venture (see note 32) (15.5) (66.4) (81.9)
Disposals (0.1) (17.7) (17.8)
Assets reclassiﬁ ed as held for sale – (2.7) (2.7)
Asset write-downs  – (65.9) (65.9)
At 31 December 2009 110.9 350.1 461.0
   
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    75 
13.  Property, plant and equipment continued
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
 Land & Fixtures & 
 Buildings Equipment Total  
 £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2008 (37.2) (225.9) (263.1)
Exchange adjustments (14.6) (77.6) (92.2)
Depreciation charge for the year (4.3) (26.3) (30.6)
Disposals 0.1 2.0 2.1
Derecognised on disposal of businesses 2.0 4.4 6.4
Impairments – (14.2) (14.2)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items 1.2 24.2 25.4
At 1 January 2009 (52.8) (313.4) (366.2)
Exchange adjustments 5.4 30.1 35.5
Depreciation charge for the year (4.4) (25.3) (29.7)
Disposals 0.1 17.2 17.3
Assets contributed to FitesaFiberweb joint venture (see note 32) 6.2 40.2 46.4
Assets reclassiﬁ ed as held for sale – 2.5 2.5
Asset write-downs  – 52.5 52.5
At 31 December 2009 (45.5) (196.2) (241.7)
   
Carrying amount:   
31 December 2009 65.4 153.9 219.3
   
31 December 2008 85.2 219.5 304.7
In the year ended 31 December 2009, non-recurring assets write-downs of £13.4 million have been expensed through non-recurring 
cost of sales in respect of plant and machinery at Peine, Germany as we completed our rationalisation of our European Hygiene 
production capacity. In addition, AQF assets with a net book value of £0.2 million were transferred to assets held for sale (see note 
17), pending their sale to a third party in January 2010.
In the year ended 31 December 2008, non-recurring ﬁ xed asset write-downs of £19.7 million included £13.3 million in respect of the 
closure of our Korma, Italy facility, expensed through non-recurring restructuring costs totalling £23.0 million (note 5). The balance 
of £6.4 million is included within non-recurring cost of sales totalling £20.2 million (note 5) and comprised £5.6 million in respect of 
production equipment in our Hygiene plant at Peine, Germany and £0.8 million in respect of further capacity rationalisation in Europe 
Hygiene. Impairments of £14.2 million have also been expensed through non-recurring cost of sales and comprise £8.8 million 
recognised in the ﬁ rst half of the year in respect of non-US Hygiene equipment and £5.4 million in respect of capacity rationalisation 
in our European Hygiene plants. 
On 31 July 2009, assets with a net book value of £35.5 million were contributed into the FitesaFiberweb joint venture from the Group’s 
US Hygiene plant in Washougal and the Group’s Mexican operations (see note 32). 
In the year ended 31 December 2008, the net book value derecognised in respect of disposal the Group’s Brazilian subsidiary, Bidim, 
was £9.0 million – refer to note 32. 
      2009 2008   
      £’m £’m
Capital commitments  
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided    18.1 6.0
The carrying amount of the Group’s ﬁ xtures and equipment includes an amount of £5.5 million (2008: £6.1 million) in respect of assets 
held under ﬁ nance leases. 
At 31 December 2009, the carrying amount of the Group’s ﬁ xtures and equipment includes £2.7 million (2008: £25.1 million) in respect 
of assets in the course of construction.
Where assets have been impaired the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value in use, estimated using 
discount rates ranging between 10% to 12% (2008: 10% to 12%).  76    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
14.  Interests in associates and joint ventures
  2009 2008   
  £’m £’m
Cost of investment in associates and joint ventures 47.9 1.4
Share of post-tax proﬁ ts, net of dividends received 2.5 0.8
  50.4 2.2
  
50% investment in FitesaFiberweb joint venture (note 32) 47.3 –
26% investment in associate Terram Geosynthetics Private Limited 0.6 –
25.1% investment in associate CoraTech GmbH – 1.4
Total cost of investment in associates and joint ventures 47.9 1.4
  
Share of results of:  
FitesaFiberweb  2.5 –
CoraTech GmbH – 0.8
Total accumulated share of results 2.5 0.8
The names and interests in major associated undertakings and joint ventures are shown in note 3 to the Company Financial 
Statements. 
On 31 July 2009, the Group entered into a joint venture, FitesaFiberweb, with partner Petropar S.A. The carrying value of the cost of 
investment in the joint venture at 31 December 2009 was £47.3 million, as set out in note 32. 
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group invested £0.8 million to acquire 26% of the shares in Terram Geosynthetics 
Private Limited. The cost of investment was reduced by £0.2 million in respect of the Group’s unrealised share of the post tax gain on 
Terram’s sale of its previously mothballed production line to the associate. 
The ﬁ nancial year end of Terram Geosynthetics Private Limited is 31 March.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group disposed of its investment in associate CoraTech – see note 32. 
Aggregated amounts relating to associates and joint ventures:
       2009 2008   
       £’m £’m
Total assets      191.4 7.2
Total liabilities      (92.3) (0.8)
Net assets      99.1 6.4
  
Revenue      53.9 14.7
Proﬁ t for the year      5.5 0.5
Business share of proﬁ t for the year      2.7 0.2
Business share of capital expenditure contracted for but not provided    15.1 –
15.  Other investments
       2009 2008   
       £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January       0.3 0.8
Disposals      – (0.6)
Exchange adjustments      – 0.1
At 31 December      0.3 0.3
In May 2008, the Group disposed of its investment in SGN (refer to note 32).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    77 
16.  Inventories
       2009 2008
       £’m £’m
Raw materials      19.5 24.2
Work-in-progress      6.4 8.1
Finished goods      23.0 34.5
       48.9 66.8
17.  Other ﬁ nancial assets
Trade and other receivables
       2009 2008   
       £’m £’m
Trade receivables      53.9 71.3
Amounts owed by related parties (note 34)       4.1 4.0
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income     11.4 21.0
Assets held for sale      1.2 0.3
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments      0.9 0.6
       71.5 97.2
Assets held for sale of £1.2 million comprise the production equipment at AQF held at its net realisable value and sold to a third 
party in January 2010 (see notes 13 and 5). In 2008, assets held for sale of £0.3 million comprised the carrying value of the previously 
mothballed line at Terram, which was in the process of being refurbished ahead of its sale to the Group’s Indian joint venture, Terram 
Geosynthetics Private Limited (see notes 5 and 34). 
Trade receivables
The average credit period granted on sales of goods is 47 days (2008: 54 days). No interest is charged on receivables paid within their 
due date. Thereafter, the seller reserves the right to charge interest on the overdue outstanding balance at rates ranging from 1.5% 
to 4% above the bank base interest rate of the relevant jurisdiction. An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts 
from the sale of goods of £5.1 million (2008: £4.0 million). This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience 
and taking into account the Group’s credit insurance cover. Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit 
scoring system, available for use via the provider of its credit insurance cover, to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and 
deﬁ ne credit limits by customer.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
Amounts owed by related parties comprise amounts owed by the former parent company of £3.6 million (2008: £4.0 million) in respect 
of indemnities provided for corporation tax liabilities in accordance with the terms of the Demerger Agreement. The decrease in the 
year is attributable to exchange differences on the retranslation of the underlying balances. This balance also includes £0.5 million 
(2008: £nil) receivable from the FitesaFiberweb JV for transition services (see note 34). 
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £3.1 million (2008: £10.0 million) which are 
past due at the reporting date and for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a signiﬁ cant change in credit quality and 
the amounts are still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances, as in the event of default, 
the Group would pursue reimbursement by claiming on its credit insurance cover.  78    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
17.  Other ﬁ nancial assets continued
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
       2009 2008   
       £’m £’m
Amounts overdue by:  
Less than 30 days      3.1 7.3
Between 30 – 60 days      – 2.7
Between 60 – 90 days      – –
More than 90 days      – –
       3.1 10.0
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
       2009 2008  
       £’m £’m
Amounts overdue by:  
Less than 30 days      1.6 1.2
Between 30 – 60 days      0.7 0.4
Between 60 – 90 days      0.5 0.7
More than 90 days      2.3 1.7
       5.1 4.0
Movement in the allowance for estimated unrecoverable amounts in respect of trade receivables
      2009 2008  
      £’m £’m
Balance at the beginning of the period      4.0 1.3
Balance disposed of      (0.5) (0.1)
Impairment losses recognised      1.9 1.8
Amounts written back/(written off)      – 0.3
Exchange adjustments      (0.3) 0.7
Balance at the end of the year      5.1 4.0
Cash and cash equivalents
      2009 2008  
      £’m £’m
Cash on hand and at bank      32.4 26.4
Cash and cash equivalents      32.4 26.4
Less: bank overdrafts      (10.4) (6.0)
 Net cash and cash equivalents for cash ﬂ ow purposes     22.0 20.4
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the business and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents at the reporting date are denominated in the following currencies:
   Swedish
 US Dollar Euro  Krona Sterling Other Total 
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2009      
Cash on hand and at bank 13.1 10.2 0.2 6.9 2.0 32.4
31 December 2008      
Cash on hand and at bank 10.2 9.6 0.2 4.3 2.1 26.4
 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    79 
17.  Other ﬁ nancial assets continued
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal ﬁ nancial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The credit risk on 
liquid funds and derivative ﬁ nancial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned 
by international credit-rating agencies. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identiﬁ ed loss event which, based on 
previous experience, is evidence of a reduction of the cash ﬂ ows. The Group has global credit insurance cover to mitigate the risk of a 
material bad debt. Historically, the Group’s policy imposed credit limits on individual customers according to their credit rating and the 
maximum excess payable by the Group in the event of a claim was £25,000, which further restricted the Group’s exposure to default.
In response to the current global economic crisis, the Group’s former credit insurer undertook a review of its risk portfolio and as a result 
either reduced credit limits or withdrew cover for a number of the Group’s customers, notably within the construction sector. In view 
of continued restriction and withdrawal of cover in the face of increased premiums, the Group has taken a policy with a new provider 
for the year commencing 1 January 2010, which provides cover up to agreed limits, but which is subject to an aggregate deductible of 
€0.6 million. In the event that cover is either restricted or withdrawn, Group policy continues to require rigorous review of the customer’s 
current ﬁ nancial health and careful management of the maximum exposure to the Group at any one time. The amount of risk accepted 
by the Group is subject to deﬁ ned approval limits up to the executive directors. Whilst every effort is made to limit the Group’s exposure 
to potential credit risk, the provision for such risk has been increased from £4.0 million at December 2008 to £5.1 million at the end of 
the current year, which reﬂ ects the increased degree of self-insurance inherent within the new Group credit insurance. 
The Group has some concentration of credit risk, especially within the Hygiene businesses, where a signiﬁ cant percentage of sales 
are to a small Group of key customers. However the Group’s major customers have high credit ratings, and therefore the directors 
do not believe that this creates a signiﬁ cant risk exposure. Refer also to the Business Review on page 31.
Categories of financial assets
Details of the signiﬁ cant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement 
and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of ﬁ nancial asset are disclosed in note 2.
      Carrying value 
        2009 2008   
        £’m £’m
Fair value through proﬁ t and loss (FVTPL) – held for trading     0.5 0.6
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships     0.4 –
Receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)      103.0 123.0
        103.9 123.6
18.  Trade and other payables
        2009 2008   
        £’m £’m
Trade payables       37.7 51.7
Other taxation and social security       3.4 11.8
Accruals and deferred income       21.1 24.5
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments       6.2 8.2
        68.4 96.2
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade purchases is 46 days (2008: 55 days). The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates 
their fair value.
Categories of financial liabilities
Details of the signiﬁ cant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement 
and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of ﬁ nancial liability are disclosed in note 2.
      Carrying value 
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships    6.2 8.1
Fair value through proﬁ t and loss (FVTPL) – held for trading    – 0.1
Other ﬁ nancial liabilities at amortised cost     240.2 276.2
      246.4 284.4 80    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
19.  Obligations under ﬁ nance leases 
      Present value  
     Minimum  of minimum  
     lease payments lease payments
    2009 2008 2009 2008
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Amounts payable under ﬁ nance leases:    
Within one year, present value of lease obligations   1.4 2.8 1.4 2.8
    
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its ﬁ xtures and equipment under ﬁ nance leases. For the year ended 31 December 2009, 
the average effective borrowing rate was 4.50% (2008: 5.36%). Interest rates are ﬁ xed at the contract date or vary based on prevailing 
interest rates. 
Finance lease obligations are denominated in the following currencies: Euros £nil million (2008: £0.5 million) and Swedish Krona 
£1.4 million (2008: £2.3 million). 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. 
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets. 
20.  Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee 
     2009 2008   
     £’m £’m
 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 1.6 1.9
At the balance sheet date, the business has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as 
follows:
     2009 2008   
     £’m £’m
Within one year     1.7 1.8
In the second to ﬁ fth years inclusive     2.8 4.5
After ﬁ ve years     – 0.6
     4.5 6.9
Operating lease payments represent amounts payable by the Group for certain of its ofﬁ ce properties, plant and equipment. 
Leases are negotiated for an average term of one year for ofﬁ ce properties, twelve years for warehouses and four years for equipment. 
Rentals are generally ﬁ xed or adjusted for based on inﬂ ation. 
21.  Bank overdrafts and loans
     2009 2008   
     £’m £’m
Bank overdrafts     10.4 6.0
Bank loans     157.2 167.5
     167.6 173.5
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
     2009 2008   
     £’m £’m
On demand or within one year     11.6 10.5
In the second year      156.0 5.3
In the third to ﬁ fth years inclusive     – 157.7
     167.6 173.5
Less: Amount due for settlement within one year (shown under current liabilities) (11.6) (10.5)
Amounts due for settlement after more than one year    156.0 163.0
The fair value of the Group’s borrowings is not materially different from their carrying values.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    81 
21.  Bank overdrafts and loans continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings at the reporting date are denominated in the following currencies:
     Swedish
   US Dollar Euro  Krona Sterling Other Total
   £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2009      
Bank overdrafts  0.2 1.0 0.2 9.0 – 10.4
Bank loans  75.0 58.0 19.6 4.6 – 157.2
   75.2 59.0 19.8 13.6 – 167.6
31 December 2008      
Bank overdrafts  0.1 1.9 0.6 3.4 – 6.0
Bank loans  70.3 68.7 19.6 (0.6) 9.5 167.5
   70.4 70.6 20.2 2.8 9.5 173.5
The average interest rates on borrowings from unrelated third parties are as follows:
       2009 2008   
       £’m £’m
United States Dollar      2.93% 5.27%
Euro       3.35% 6.32%
Swedish Krona      3.32% 6.27%
Great British Pounds      1.79% –
As of the balance sheet date, the Group’s primary source of funds was a $400 million (reduced from $439.5 million since demerger) 
multi-currency, revolving credit facility (“the original RCF”) provided by a syndicate of nine international banks, maturing in 2011. 
Borrowings under this facility are in Euro, US Dollars and Swedish Krona for maturities of up to six months. All amounts drawn down 
are at ﬂ oating interest rates. Amounts owed under the original RCF are shown as maturing within two years (2008: between three and 
ﬁ ve years). The majority of borrowings are arranged at ﬂ oating rates, thus exposing the Group to interest rate risk, against which the 
Group seeks to protect itself through interest rate swaps (see note 22). The effective rates on borrowings are not materially different 
from their nominal interest rates.  
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. The business has secured loans of £1.0 million (2008: £3.6 million). The original RCF 
is guaranteed by a number of the Group’s trading entities in respect of the parent’s liabilities. All other bank loans are unsecured, 
although there are some cases where parent guarantees have been issued in respect of bank loans to overseas subsidiaries.
At year end the Group had available $147.1 million (2008: $179.4 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
In view of the difﬁ cult conditions in capital markets in recent times, the Company embarked on reﬁ nancing discussions with its banks 
well in advance of the latest practical date for reﬁ nancing, which would have been the end of 2010. Consequently, a new loan facility 
(“the new RCF”) was entered into in February 2010 for a term of 3½ years until July 2013 and for an amount of £205 million, comprising 
multi-currency facilities of €110 million and US$170 million. 
Interest rates are at prevailing market rates and are more expensive than under the original RCF which was in place during 2009 and 
which was established at the time of the demerger in 2006.
Similar covenants have been agreed which include an EBITDA/net debt gearing covenant of 3.0x and an interest cover covenant of 5.0x 
for the majority of the term of the new RCF, with more relaxed covenants during the initial period. Under the new facility, covenant 
tests are required on a quarterly basis, compared to the six-monthly testing under the original RCF.
Liquidity risk management
The Group is exposed to short term liquidity risks if outﬂ ows exceed the funds currently available at the time. Ultimate responsibility 
for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors. The board in conjunction with the Group’s treasury function have built 
an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long term funding and 
liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves under the revolving credit 
facility and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ﬂ ows and ensuring adequate funds are drawn down to cover any outﬂ ows 
required, subject to the restrictions imposed by the Group’s banking covenants. The additional undrawn facilities that the Group has 
at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk are set out above. 
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its non-derivative ﬁ nancial assets. The table has been drawn up based 
on undiscounted contractual maturities of the ﬁ nancial assets.
   Within 1 year 1-5 years Total  
   £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2009    
Non-interest bearing  70.6 – 70.6
31 December 2008    
Non-interest bearing  96.1 – 96.1 82    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
21.  Bank overdrafts and loans continued
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities. The table has been 
drawn up based on undiscounted cash ﬂ ows of ﬁ nancial liabilities and includes both interest and principal cash ﬂ ows. 
  Within  
  1 year 1-5 years +5 years Total  
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2009    
Non-interest bearing 68.6 1.7 0.9 71.2  
Finance lease liability 1.4 – – 1.4  
Variable interest rate instruments 10.6 166.9 – 177.5 
  80.6 168.6 0.9 250.1 
31 December 2008    
Non-interest bearing 97.1 2.8 – 99.9
Finance lease liability 2.8 – – 2.8
Variable interest rate instruments 11.1 191.9 – 203.0
  111.0 194.7 – 305.7
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative ﬁ nancial instruments. The table has been drawn up based 
on the undiscounted net cash inﬂ ows/(outﬂ ows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross 
inﬂ ows/(outﬂ ows) on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not ﬁ xed, the amount 
disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves 
existing at the reporting date.
    Within Within Within 
    1 month 1-12 months 2-5 years Total  
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2009        
Interest rate swaps   – (4.4) (1.8) (6.2)
Commodity derivatives   0.3 0.4 – 0.7
Foreign exchange forward contracts   0.2 – – 0.2
    0.5 (4.0) (1.8) (5.3)
   
31 December 2008      
Interest rate swaps   – (2.4) (5.7) (8.1)
Foreign exchange forward contracts   0.5 – – 0.5
    0.5 (2.4) (5.7) (7.6)
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising 
the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt 
which includes borrowings disclosed in this note, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 27 to 30. The Group reviews its capital structure 
regularly and as part of such review, it considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Externally imposed capital requirement
Under the original revolving credit facility, in place throughout 2008 and 2009, the Group is subject to capital requirements of a gearing 
ratio (net debt to EBITDA) and an interest cover ratio (EBITDA to interest) which are measured every six months on 30 June and 
31 December. EBITDA is deﬁ ned as underlying operating proﬁ t adjusted to exclude interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 
and certain other non-cash items. 
The net debt to EBITDA requirements under this facility are set out in the following table. 
Relevant period ending:    Consolidated Net Borrowings shall not exceed
31 December 2006 and 30 June 2007     3.50 times EBITDA
31 December 2007 and 30 June 2008     3.25 times EBITDA
31 December 2008 and 30 June 2009     3.00 times EBITDA
31 December 2009 and 30 June 2010     2.75 times EBITDA
31 December 2010    2.50 times EBITDA
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    83 
21.  Bank overdrafts and loans continued
Externally imposed capital requirement continued
The EBITDA to interest ratio under the original facility is also measured every six months, as follows:
Relevant period ending: EBITDA to exceed or be equal to
31 December 2006  5.00 times interest
30 June 2007 4.00 times interest
31 December 2007  4.50 times interest
30 June 2008 4.75 times interest
31 December 2008 to 31 December 2010 5.00 times interest
Under the new revolving credit facility described above, the Group is subject to the same capital requirements of a gearing ratio 
(net debt to EBITDA) and an interest cover ratio (EBITDA to interest) which will be measured every three months on 31 March, 30 June, 
30 September and 31 December. EBITDA is deﬁ ned as underlying operating proﬁ t adjusted to exclude interest, taxation, depreciation 
and amortisation and certain other non-cash items. 
The net debt to EBITDA requirements are set out in the following table. 
Relevant period ending: Consolidated Net Borrowings shall not exceed
30 June 2010, 30 September 2010 and 31 December 2010 3.20 times EBITDA
31 March 2011 3.125 times EBITDA
30 June 2011, 30 September 2011 and 31 December 2011 3.00 times EBITDA
31 March 2012 – 30 June 2013 2.75 times EBITDA
The EBITDA to interest ratio will also be measured every three months and is as follows:
Relevant period ending: EBITDA to exceed or be equal to 
30 June 2010 – 31 March 2011   4.50 times interest
30 June 2011 – 30 June 2013 5.00 times interest
The Group has remained within the limits of its original facility at all times over the life of the facility.  
The immediate impact of exchange rate ﬂ uctuations on the Group’s net debt versus the slower impact on the Group’s trading results 
can adversely impact the calculation of the Group’s gearing covenant at the covenant test dates. This risk is mitigated by the existence 
of a clause in both the Group’s original and new RCF Agreements allowing net debt to be translated at the cumulative average exchange 
rates for the relevant period, if, and only if, the Group would be in breach of the covenant if spot rates are used to retranslate net debt. 
22.  Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
  2009 2009 2008 2008
  Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
Derivatives that are designated and effective
as hedging instruments carried at fair value    
Interest rate swaps – (6.2) – (8.1)
Commodity derivatives 0.4 – – –
Financial assets carried at fair value through proﬁ t or loss (FVTPL)    
Held for trading derivatives that are not designated in 
hedge accounting relationships: 
Commodity derivatives 0.3 – – –
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.2 – 0.6 (0.1)
Note 17, 18 0.9 (6.2) 0.6 (8.2)
The fair values of all derivative ﬁ nancial instruments shown in the table above are based on market values of equivalent instruments 
at the balance sheet date and are held as assets and liabilities within other receivables and payables. Derivative instruments are fair 
valued based on the estimated market valuations provided by the respective bank with which the instrument is held.  84    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
22.  Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments continued
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position
The Group is required to analyse its ﬁ nancial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, and to 
classify them into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
•  Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
•  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
•  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are 
not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All fair value measurements of ﬁ nancial instruments recognised in the statement of ﬁ nancial position are classiﬁ ed as Level 2 as 
deﬁ ned above. Note that there were no transfers between the levels during the year.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s corporate treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international ﬁ nancial 
markets, and monitors and manages the ﬁ nancial risks relating to operations. These risks include market risk (including currency 
risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ﬂ ow interest rate risk. 
The Group seeks to manage the effects of these risks by using derivative ﬁ nancial instruments to hedge these exposures. The use 
of ﬁ nancial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles on 
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of ﬁ nancial derivatives and non-derivative ﬁ nancial instruments, and the 
investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer on a continuous 
basis and periodically by internal audit. The Group does not enter into or trade ﬁ nancial instruments, including derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments, for speculative purposes.
Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the ﬁ nancial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The Group enters into a variety of ﬁ nancial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
•   forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising in trading subsidiaries, primarily through net sales 
to customers and purchases from suppliers in currencies other than their domestic local currency;
•  interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates, and
•  forward foreign exchange swaps to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on net balance sheet exposure around the Group.
There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk. 
Foreign currency risk management
The overall policy of Fiberweb is to use borrowings in currency to manage the translational currency risk arising from assets and earnings in 
overseas subsidiaries. The currency proﬁ le of borrowings under the RCF broadly mirrors both the currency proﬁ le of the Group’s net assets 
and EBITDA. Foreign currency-denominated borrowings are largely designated as net investment hedges. Foreign exchange forwards are 
used to manage the net balance sheet exposure. It is the Group’s policy not to undertake speculative currency transactions.
Fiberweb’s business is characterised by a relatively low level of cross border activity, and therefore the Group has little transactional 
currency exposure. Overall, the volume of transactions with a currency impact is below 10% of turnover. However, the Group’s policy is 
that, where signiﬁ cant transactional exposures exist, these exposures should be hedged with maturities not to exceed twelve months.
The Group monitors the translational foreign currency exposures of its ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities on a monthly basis, adapting 
its portfolio of loans and hedges as may be required. 
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge transactional risk are taken to the income statement. 
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £43.1 million (2008: £17.8 million) of forward contracts to 
buy or sell foreign currency. The fair value of such transactions was £0.2 million (2008: 0.5 million). 
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding at the year end:
Forward foreign exchange contracts
 Average   
 exchange rates Foreign currency Contract value Fair value
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’m £’m £’m £’m
Outstanding contracts: 
Buy EUR/sell GBP 1.11 – 12.5 – 11.1 – (0.1) –
Buy USD/sell GBP  1.63 1.54 14.0 13.0 8.7 8.5 0.1 0.6
Buy USD/sell RMB  6.82 – 15.0 – 9.3 – – –
Sell SEK/buy GBP 11.50 11.64 20.0 19.0 1.7 1.6 – –
Sell EUR/buy GBP – 1.05 – 0.2 – 0.1 – –
Sell EUR/buy SEK 10.48 11.07 13.9 7.6 12.3 7.4 0.2 (0.1)
Sell MXP/buy USD – 13.70 – 4.8 – 0.2 – –
     43.1 17.8 0.2 0.5
All contracts mature within 30 days of year end.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    85 
22.  Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to ﬂ uctuations in the exchange rate applicable for the US Dollar and the Euro. Operating proﬁ t, EBITDA and 
net debt are the key inputs into the Group’s gearing covenant and the exchange impacts on these variables are monitored closely. 
The following table illustrates the impact on the Group’s continuing underlying operating proﬁ t, EBITDA, net debt and equity of a 10% 
increase and decrease in Sterling against each of these currencies, assuming all other variables are unchanged. The use of a 10% 
variation has been chosen in light of the magnitude of recent ﬂ uctuations in both the US Dollar and Euro values against Sterling. 
These values have been computed using the currency proﬁ le of the Group’s operating proﬁ t, EBITDA and net debt. For the restatement 
of the Group’s operating proﬁ t and EBITDA, the Sterling equivalents have been retranslated by ﬂ exing the cumulative average exchange 
rates used by the Group for the relevant periods. For the restatement of the Group’s net debt and equity, the Sterling equivalents have 
been retranslated by ﬂ exing the actual closing exchange rates used by the Group at the period ends. The relevant cumulative average 
and closing exchange rates used by the Group for 2009 and 2008 are published in the Business Review on page 31. 
         2009 2008   
         £’m £’m
Flexing the USD/£ cross rate   
Continuing underlying operating proﬁ t:  
As reported         23.1 18.8
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate      21.3 17.8
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate      25.3 20.0
  
Continuing underlying EBITDA:  
As reported        53.0 49.9
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate      50.2 47.9
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate      56.5 52.4
  
Net debt:  
As reported        136.6 149.9
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate      131.2 144.4
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate      143.3 156.6
  
Equity:  
As reported        172.6 196.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate      167.7 192.3
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate      178.5 201.8
  
Flexing the Euro/£ cross rate  
Continuing underlying operating proﬁ t:  
As reported         23.1 18.8
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate      22.1 18.4
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate      24.3 19.3
  
Continuing underlying EBITDA:  
As reported        53.0 49.9
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate      51.0 48.5
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate      55.4 51.7
Flexing the Euro/£ cross rate  
Net debt:  
As reported        136.6 149.9
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate      132.2 144.3
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate      142.0 156.7
  
Equity:  
As reported        172.6 196.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate      167.7 189.7
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate      178.5 205.0 86    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
22.  Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments continued
The impact of exchange rate ﬂ uctuations on the Group’s operating proﬁ t and EBITDA in 2009 has not been as notable as might be 
expected in the face of signiﬁ cant movements in both the Euro and USD cross rate with Sterling, particularly in the second half of 
the year. This is attributable to the use of a 13 month cumulative average exchange rate to convert proﬁ ts, which slows the impact 
of spot changes in the cross rate. 
Exchange rate movements have had a much greater impact on the Sterling equivalent of net debt and equity during 2009, since the 
translation is based on the exchange rates at a given point in time, rather than the cumulative average rate applied to the income 
statement and the absolute value being retranslated is in excess of approximately £130 million and £170 million respectively. 
Interest rate risk
The Group is predominantly exposed to interest rate ﬂ uctuations on the portion of the revolving credit facility that is not covered 
by hedging arrangements. The total amount drawn down under the RCF at the year end was £156.4 million (2008: £157.1 million). 
The Group’s policy is to use a combination of debt and derivative instruments to hedge portions of its interest rate exposure for varying 
periods, up to the maturity of its underlying borrowing facilities. Interest rate swaps are entered into after due consideration by the 
Group’s treasury function of actual base interest rates and ﬁ nancial market projections for future changes to those rates based on 
economic conditions, and such swaps must be approved by the board of directors in line with Group policy.
The Group entered into a series of interest rate swaps for totals of US$100.0 million and Euro 60.0 million (2008: US$100.0 million, 
Euro 60.0 million), spread over several banks, whereby it pays a blended average ﬁ xed rate of 4.78% for US Dollar and 4.62% for Euros and 
receives ﬂ oating rate. The swaps mature in 2010 and 2011 and have been designated interest risk hedges. The interest rate swaps settle 
on a semi-annual basis. The ﬂ oating rate on the interest rate swaps is 6-month US Dollar LIBOR and 6-month EURIBOR respectively. 
The Group will settle the difference between the ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating interest rate on a net basis. The interest rate swaps settlements 
and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the proﬁ t or loss over 
the period that the ﬂ oating rate interest payments on debt impact proﬁ t or loss. The fair market value of the swaps at 31 December 
2009 was a loss of £6.2 million (2008: a loss of £8.1 million) and the loss (2008: loss) has been debited (2008: debited) to the hedging 
reserve. 
The following table summarises the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of the interest rate swap contracts outstanding 
as at the reporting date:
Outstanding receive ﬂ oating pay ﬁ xed contracts:
  Average contract National  
  ﬁ xed interest rate principal amount Fair value
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
  % % £’m £’m £’m £’m
Maturing in 2010  4.62 – 53.2 – (1.8) –
Maturing in 2011   3.92 4.69 106.1 127.7 (4.4) (8.1)
    159.3  127.7  (6.2)  (8.1)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The interest sensitivity analysis below is based on the assumption that changes in market interest rates affect the interest income or 
expense of variable interest ﬁ nancial instruments and that a change in market interest rates only affects interest income or expense 
in relation to ﬁ nancial instruments with ﬁ xed interest rates if these are recognised at their fair value.
Under these assumptions, if market interest rates over the course of the year were on average 1% higher or lower for all currencies 
in which the Group had borrowings this would increase or decrease proﬁ t before tax and equity as follows:
         2009 2008   
         £’m £’m
Average amount drawn down under the revolving credit facility      150.8 142.3
Average amount covered by hedging arrangements        118.5 102.5
  
Average amount exposed to interest rate ﬂ uctuations       32.3 39.8
Effect on proﬁ t before tax and equity in the event of a 1% rise or fall in average interest rates over the period.  0.3 0.4
During the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008, there has been no notable change in the Group’s sensitivity to interest rate 
ﬂ uctuations as a result of the high proportion of the Group’s borrowings that are hedged by interest rate swaps, effectively restricting 
exposure to changes in variable relevant base interest rates. 
Changes in interest rates in the market affect the fair value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments designated as hedging instruments 
and all interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective. 
Changes in fair values of interest rate hedging instruments are taken to the hedge reserve. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    87 
22.  Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments continued
Commodity Risks 
The Group faces commodity raw material price exposure to a number of raw materials, mainly polypropylene and, to a lesser 
extent, polyester and polyethylene. The monthly management reporting process highlights the net impact, adverse or favourable, of 
ﬂ uctuations in raw material prices and this is considered by the board. The Group prefers to manage its exposure to polypropylene 
and others through business arrangements with its suppliers and customers, which neutralise part of the exposure. However, the 
market for appropriate hedging instruments is monitored continuously by management with a view to mitigate this risk. In July 2009, 
the Group took out a hedge contract for 12,000 tonnes of polypropylene purchases for the period 1 July 2009 to 31 December 2009; 
as at 31 December 2009, the Group is owed £0.3 million in respect of the ﬁ nal settlement of this contract. In December 2009, the Group 
entered into a contract to hedge the price of 14,400 tonnes of polypropylene purchases in the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 
2010. As at 31 December 2009, the fair value of this hedge was a gain of £0.4 million, which has been recognised directly in the hedge 
reserve within Group equity. At 31 December 2008, no commodity derivatives were outstanding.
Further discussion of the key risks to which Fiberweb is exposed can be found on pages 31 and 32 of the Business Review.
23.  Provisions
      Restructuring  
      provisions  
      £’m
At 1 January 2009     11.9
Exchange gains     (1.1)
Charged in the year     6.9
Utilised in the year     (8.7)
At 31 December 2009     9.0
Restructuring provisions represent costs provided in relation to obligations existing at the balance sheet date for reorganisation 
around the globe:
 –  £4.1 million in respect of US actions, including an onerous lease provision of £1.4 million, £1.8 million in respect of related 
building costs and redundancies and £0.9 million deferred consideration in respect of buildings to be contributed to the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture once freehold is acquired (see note 32);
 –   provisions in Europe include £2.2 million in respect of redundancy costs and a balance of £2.0 million in respect of the closure 
in December 2008 of our Korma, Italy facility;
 –  £0.3 million in respect of accrued professional fees; and
 –  £0.4 million in respect of potential warranty claims on connection with the Group’s disposal of Bidim in June 2008.
The provision brought forward relates primarily to the restructuring of the US Hygiene business (£4.9 million), with £3.5 million relating 
to European restructuring and £3.5 million in respect of the closure of our Korma, Italy facility. 
Amounts payable after more than one year in North America comprise rent obligations in respect of the onerous lease provision and 
related building costs, as well as the FitesaFiberweb deferred consideration. 
      2009 2008 
Analysed as:     £’m £’m
Current liabilities     6.4 9.1
Non-current liabilities     2.6 2.8
      9.0 11.9 88    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
24.  Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁ ts
The Group operates a number of pension plans worldwide. The majority of these are deﬁ ned contribution in nature. The normal pension 
cost for the Group, including early retirement costs, was £1.9 million (2008 £2.7 million) of which £1.8 million (2008: £2.6 million) was 
in respect of foreign schemes. This includes £1.1 million (2008: £1.6 million) relating to deﬁ ned contribution schemes. The pension 
costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualiﬁ ed actuaries, where practicable, using a variety of methods 
and assumptions and otherwise, in respect of certain foreign schemes, in accordance with local regulations. 
The Group’s foreign pension schemes mainly relate to deﬁ ned contribution plans. 
The most signiﬁ cant deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension plans are in North America, where the Group operates two funded ﬁ nal salary pension 
arrangements. Pension costs for these plans have been calculated by independent qualiﬁ ed actuaries, using the projected unit method 
and assumptions appropriate to the arrangements in place. 
The Group also operates a number of post-retirement beneﬁ t plans in North America which principally cover healthcare and life 
assurance beneﬁ ts for its current and future retirees. The costs of these beneﬁ ts are also assessed by independent qualiﬁ ed actuaries 
using methods and assumptions appropriate under IAS 19. 
In accordance with IAS 19 the latest actuarial valuations of the Group’s deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes and healthcare plans have 
been reviewed and updated as at 31 December 2009. The following weighted average ﬁ nancial assumptions have been adopted: 
  
 North America  Rest of World
p.a. (%) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
Discount rate 5.8 6.2 6.0 5.1 5.8 5.6
Rate of increase to pensionable salaries – 2.5 3.0 2.5 3.1 3.3
Price inﬂ ation 2.0 2.0 2.8 2.0 2.1 2.1
Rate of increase to pensions in payment – – – 1.8 1.8 1.8
Rate of healthcare cost increases  10%  8%    –  –  –  
  reducing  reducing
  to 5% over   to 5% over
  the next  the next
  5 years  3 years
Mortality assumptions
Mortality assumptions for the US plans are based on the US standard table RP2000 with allowance for future improvements in 
mortality allowed for in line with projections scale AA. Generational tables have been used so that the basis used to calculate liabilities 
in respect of future pensioners assumes lower mortality (i.e. a larger allowance for improvements) than for current pensioners. 
The expected future lifetimes calculated using these assumptions are summarised as follows:
      2009 2008   
Expected future lifetime of:  
 – a 65 year old current male pensioner      19.6 years 19.6 years
 – a 65 year old current female pensioner      21.6 years 21.6 years
 – a 65 year old future male pensioner (currently aged 45)      21.1 years 21.1 years
 – a 65 year old future female pensioner (currently aged 45)     22.5 years 22.5 years
The key sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities relate to the discount rate and the 
mortality rate and are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption   Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5%  Decrease/increase by 10.5%/11.6%
Rate of mortality Increase by 1 year  Increase by 2.75%
Since the majority of the Group’s deﬁ ned beneﬁ t liabilities relate to frozen US schemes, changes to inﬂ ation and salary assumptions 
do not have a material impact on the Group’s liabilities. 
The fair value of the assets and liabilities of the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
 North America Rest of World Total
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Assets         
Equities 11.6 11.5 16.0 14.2 – – 0.1 0.5 11.6 11.5 16.1 14.7
Government bonds 13.4 15.9 11.0 1.8 – – 0.1 0.1 13.4 15.9 11.1 1.9
Corporate bonds 3.7 4.5 0.9 11.7 – – – – 3.7 4.5 0.9 11.7
Other 0.8 1.2 1.3 1.1 1.0 1.1 0.8 – 1.8 2.3 2.1 1.1
Total fair value of 
scheme assets 29.5 33.1 29.2 28.8 1.0 1.1 1.0 0.6 30.5 34.2 30.2 29.4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    89 
24.  Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁ ts continued
 North America Rest of World Total
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Obligations         
Present value of 
funded deﬁ ned
beneﬁ t obligations (47.1) (50.9) (37.5) (38.7) (1.1) (1.2) (0.9) (0.4) (48.2) (52.1) (38.4) (39.1)
Present value of 
unfunded deﬁ ned
beneﬁ t obligations (11.9) (10.7) (7.8) (7.3) (5.3) (6.9) (5.8) (6.2) (17.2) (17.6) (13.6) (13.5)
Total value of 
scheme obligations (59.0) (61.6) (45.3) (46.0) (6.4) (8.1) (6.7) (6.6) (65.4) (69.7) (52.0) (52.6)
Liability recognised 
on the balance 
sheet date (29.5) (28.5) (16.1) (17.2) (5.4) (7.0) (5.7) (6.0) (34.9) (35.5) (21.8) (23.2)
The funding policy for the schemes is reviewed on a systematic basis and in consultation with an independent qualiﬁ ed actuary where 
appropriate in order to ensure that the funding contributions from sponsoring employers are appropriate to meet the liabilities of 
the schemes over the long term. 
The expected rates of return on plan assets reﬂ ect the Group’s best estimate of the investment returns (net of tax and expenses) that 
will be earned on each asset class over the long term. The expected return on assets in the analysis of the income statement is based 
on weighted average returns using these rates, and taking into account the asset allocation of each plan. 
      North America
%     2009 2008 2007
Long term expected rate of return on plan assets   
Equities     8.5 7.7 8.3
Government bonds     4.5 2.7 4.5
Corporate bonds     5.5 4.7 5.5
Other     0.3 1.4 3.0
Total     6.1 4.8 6.7
  
  North America Rest of World Total
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Analysis of income statement charge      
Current service cost  0.3 0.3 0.7 0.8 1.0 1.1
Interest cost  3.5 2.8 0.2 0.2 3.7 3.0
Expected return on assets  (1.4) (2.1) – – (1.4) (2.1)
Immediate recognition of losses/(gains) arising over the year – – (0.2) – (0.2) –
Gains due to settlements, curtailments and termination beneﬁ ts (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.6) –
Pension liability disposed    – – (0.3) – (0.3) –
50% of liability disposed capitalised  as part of the cost 
of investment in the FitesaFiberweb JV  – – 0.1 –  0.1 –
Expense recognised in income statement  2.1 1.0 0.2 1.0 2.3 2.0
Current service costs and curtailment gains/losses and termination beneﬁ ts in respect of underlying trading operations have been 
recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses. 
Curtailment gains of £0.3 million arising in North America relate to the transfer of employees at the Group’s site in Washougal to the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture and are included within the non-recurring net loss on disposal of businesses of £1.4 million (see note 
32).  Curtailment gains of £0.3 million arising in Rest of World were recognised as a result of the European Hygiene restructuring 
activity and are included in the income statement in non-recurring restructuring costs. 
The pension liability of £0.3 million in respect of our Mexican operation was effectively transferred to the FitesaFiberweb joint venture 
on completion in July 2009. The Group’s 50% share of this liability was then capitalised as part of the Group’s cost of investment in 
the joint venture in accordance with IAS 31 – refer to note 32.
Net interest payable of £2.3 million (2008: £0.9 million) has been recognised within ﬁ nance costs (see note 7).  90    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
24.  Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁ ts continued
  North America Rest of World Total
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Changes to the fair value of scheme
assets during the year      
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year  33.1 29.2 1.1 1.0 34.2 30.2
Expected return on assets  1.4 2.1 – – 1.4 2.1
Actual employer contributions  2.2 2.2 1.5 1.3 3.7 3.5
Contributions by plan participants  0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2
Net beneﬁ ts paid out  (3.9) (3.2) (1.4) (1.5) (5.3) (4.7)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on assets  0.1 (7.1) (0.1) – – (7.1)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  (3.6) 9.7 (0.1) 0.3 (3.7) 10.0
Fair value of plan assets at end of year  29.5 33.1 1.0 1.1 30.5 34.2
  North America Rest of World Total
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Changes to the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t
obligation during the year      
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation at beginning of year  61.6 45.3 8.1 6.7 69.7 52.0
Current service cost  0.3 0.3 0.7 0.8 1.0 1.1
Interest cost  3.5 2.8 0.2 0.2 3.7 3.0
Contributions by plan participants  0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2
Actuarial (gains)/losses on scheme liabilities *  4.9 (1.2) – – 4.9 (1.2)
Net beneﬁ ts paid out  (3.9) (3.2) (1.4) (1.5) (5.3) (4.7)
Gains due to settlements and curtailments  (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.6) –
Liabilities disposed of (see note 32)  – – (0.3) – (0.3) –
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  (7.3) 17.4 (0.6) 1.9 (7.9) 19.3
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation at end of year  59.0 61.6 6.4 8.1 65.4 69.7
*Includes changes to the actuarial assumptions.
  North America Rest of World Total
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
      
Actual return on scheme assets  1.6 (5.0) – – 1.6 (5.0)
Analysis of amounts recognised in the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income      
Total actuarial losses recognised in the year  (4.7) (5.9) (0.2) – (4.9) (5.9)
Total losses in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  (4.7) (5.9) (0.2) – (4.9) (5.9)
Cumulative amount of losses recognised in the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  (17.7) (13.0) (1.5) (1.3) (19.2) (14.3)
A 1% increase in assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate charge in the income statement by £0.1 million 
(2008: £0.1 million) and increase the net liability by £1.4 million (2008: £1.1 million). A 1% decrease in assumed medical cost trend 
rates would reduce the aggregate charge in the income statement by £0.1 million (2008: £0.1 million) and reduce the net liability by 
£1.2 million (2008: £0.9 million). 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    91 
24.  Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁ ts continued
 North America Rest of World Total
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
History of Asset
Values, Deﬁ ned 
Beneﬁ t Obligations         
Fair value of assets 29.5 33.1 29.2 28.8 1.0 1.1 1.0 0.6 30.5 34.2 30.2 29.4
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
obligations 59.0 61.6 45.3 46.0 6.4 8.1 6.7 6.6 65.4 69.7 52.0 52.6
Deﬁ cit (29.5) (28.5) (16.1) (17.2) (5.4) (7.0) (5.7) (6.0) (34.9) (35.5) (21.8) (23.2)
         
Experience 
(losses)/gains on 
scheme assets 0.2 (7.1) 2.0 0.5 (0.1) – 0.7 0.1 0.1 (7.1) 2.7 0.6
Experience 
(losses)/gains on 
scheme liabilities (1.6) (0.1) (2.3) (1.4) 0.2 – (0.3) – (1.4) (0.1) (2.6) (1.4)
     North Rest of   
     America World Total  
     £’m £’m £’m
Employer contributions in 2010 are estimated to be:    2.6 0.4 3.0
25.  Deferred tax 
    Goodwill Tax losses   
  Fixed Other and and tax Retirement 
  assets assets intangibles credits beneﬁ ts Total
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2009  (21.9) 1.9 0.3 4.3 2.4 (13.0)
Amounts derecognised on disposal of businesses 1.8 0.4 – – (0.1) 2.1
Amounts recognised on acquisition of businesses (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Credited/ (charged) in year   1.8 1.6 (0.9) 5.8 – 8.3
Recognised directly in equity  – (0.5) – – 3.6 3.1
Exchange adjustments  1.5 (0.3) – (0.6) (0.4) 0.2
At 31 December 2009  (17.0) 3.1 (0.6) 9.5 5.5 0.5
In accordance with IAS 12, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax 
balances (after offset) for ﬁ nancial reporting purposes:
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
Deferred tax liabilities      (15.1) (21.9)
Deferred tax assets      15.6 8.9
      0.5 (13.0)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses and other temporary differences of 
£15.3 million (2008: £21.4 million) available for offset against future proﬁ ts. These assets have not been recognised as the precise 
incidence of future proﬁ ts in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be predicted accurately at this time. The Group’s tax 
losses may be carried forward indeﬁ nitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £0.1 million (2008: £0.2 million). No liability has been recognised in 
respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and 
it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insigniﬁ cant.  92    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
26.  Share-based payments
Up to the date of demerger, certain directors and employees of Fiberweb were entitled to participate in the share option schemes of 
the former parent company. 
Since demerger, Fiberweb has issued its own share-based payment compensation plans. In the year ended 31 December 2009, 
the Group recognised a total expense, within staff costs, in relation to share-based payments under equity-settled schemes of 
£0.9 million (2008: £0.3 million).
The schemes in operation during the year are as follows. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
The LTIP provides for the grant of free shares in the form of contingent shares. 
The ﬁ rst award of shares under the LTIP was made 27 November 2006, when 1,143,938 shares were granted. Further awards 
of 1,333,333 shares, 1,807,029 shares and 2,284,172 shares under the LTIP were made 12 and 29 May 2008 and 26 June 2009 
respectively.
Shares in relation to all three of these awards will be released to participants at the end of an expected three year performance 
period, dependent on the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisﬁ ed. Subject to good leaver provisions, awards 
are forfeited if the employee leaves before the end of the vesting period. 
Fifty per cent of the shares awarded under the grants are governed by a TSR market based performance condition. The remaining 
ﬁ fty per cent is governed by an EPS performance condition.
The Group recognised a total expense in relation to LTIP awards of £0.9 million (2008: £0.2 million). Awards outstanding at the end 
of the year were 5,506,631 (2008: 3,235,353). The weighted average fair value of the LTIP awards during the period is 45.3 pence per 
share or £2.3 million in total (2008: 34.8 pence or £1.1 million).
The following table summarises the evolution of the Group’s LTIP awards during the period:
Number of shares outstanding 2006 2008 2009 Total
 LTIP LTIP LTIP Shares
At 1 January 2009 450,844 2,784,509 – 3,235,353
Granted – – 2,284,172 2,284,172 
Lapsed through employee turnover (12,894) – – (12,894)
At 31 December 2009 437,950 2,784,509 2,284,172 5,506,631
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1January 2009    0.2 0.1 – 0.3
Charged to income     0.4 0.2 0.3 0.9
At 31 December 2009    0.6 0.3 0.3 1.2 
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £0.9 million (2008: £0.3 million), all of which related 
to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge to the income statement was £0.9 million 
(2008: £0.2 million). The weighted average remaining contractual life of share-based payment schemes outstanding at 31 December 
2009 was 1.9 years (2008: 1.9 years).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    93 
26.  Share-based payments continued
Fair value assumptions
The fair value of shares awarded under the plans has been calculated using the market value of shares adjusted to take into account 
the TSR market based performance condition where applicable. The calculation has been performed using the stochastic pricing 
model. The assumptions made in performing the calculation for each award are listed below:
     
2009 2006 LTIP 2008 LTIP 2008 LTIP 2009 LTIP
Grant date 27 Nov 12 May 29 May 26 June
 2006 2008 2008 2009
Number of participants 28 2 14 21
Performance period 3 years  3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 4.97% 4.34% 5.08% 7.80%
Stochastic model assumptions:   
  – Share price at grant date (pence) 188.75  45.0 45.5 69.25
  – Exercise price (pence) – – – –
  – Volatility 28.0% 50% 50% 50%
  – Expected dividend yield 2.5% 9.33% 9.23% 6.0%
Fair value of shares:    
 – TSR element (pence) 113.06 11.93 12.38 47.51
 – EPS element (pence) 188.75 33.89 34.40 57.75
Expected volatility for the grants is based on the historical volatility taking into account the expected vesting term for each grant. 
Awards of shares with no exercise price are not affected by the risk free rate of interest. In calculating the income statement charge 
in relation to the EPS element of the 2006 plans, an expected vesting percentage of 100% (2008: nil %) has been applied to the fair 
values. In relation to the EPS element of the 2008 and 2009 LTIP plans, expected vesting percentages of 100% and 75.0% have been 
applied respectively. These vesting percentages have been calculated after taking into account expected staff retention rates and the 
probabilities attached to attainment of the performance condition.
The weighted average exercise price of all share-based payment schemes outstanding at December 2009 and 2008 was nil.
27.  Share capital
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
Authorised: 200 million ordinary shares of 5p each     10.0 10.0
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p      6.1 6.1
Number of shares in issue  
Beginning and end of year      122,440,375 122,440,375
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁ xed income. There were no changes to the Group’s share 
capital during the year ended 31 December 2009.    
28.  Movements on reserves
On demerger, former parent company, BBA Aviation plc (“BBA”) waived loans owed to it by Fiberweb entities totalling £90.0 million 
and creating distributable reserves in Fiberweb plc. BBA also converted £87.4 million of debt to equity in Fiberweb plc. 
The merger reserve comprises the excess between the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of the transfer of 
subsidiaries and the book value of those subsidiary investments transferred. 
The other reserve comprises adjustments in respect of the Group reorganisation which took place as part of the demerger. 
This reserve primarily represents the difference between the capital structure of the Fiberweb entities that were owned directly by BBA 
prior to the demerger and the capital structure of Fiberweb plc and its subsidiaries after completion of the demerger restructuring. 
This reserve is not distributable. 
The capital reserve represents amounts accrued in respect of the cost of equity-settled share options in accordance with IFRS 2 
“Share-based Payments” (see note 26). 
The hedging reserve represents unrealised gains or losses on hedge instruments. 
The translation reserve represents the gains or losses on translation of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries.  94    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
29.  Minority interest
        £’m
At 1 January 2009       0.6
Elimination of minority       (0.6)
At 31 December 2009       –
On 26 June 2009, the Group agreed to acquire the remaining 35% minority interest in Chinese polyester spunbond fabric manufacturer, 
Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited it did not already own for RMB 9,120,000 in cash. Accordingly the minority’s 
share of assets in the company has been eliminated against the consideration within the Group’s Retained Earnings.  
30.  Reconciliation of movements in total shareholders’ equity
        2009 2008
        £’m £’m
Comprehensive (expense)/income for the year      (18.8) 16.0
Equity dividends paid to former parent company      – (0.5)
Equity dividends paid to shareholders       (5.1) (5.1)
Movement on reserve for share option costs      0.9 0.3
Net loss on buyout of minority interest       (0.4) –
Net movement in total shareholders’ equity for the year      (23.4) 10.7
Total shareholders’ equity at beginning of year      196.0 185.3
Total shareholders’ equity at end of year       172.6 196.0
31.  Cash ﬂ ow from operating activities
       2009 2008
       £’m £’m
Operating proﬁ t/(loss) from continuing operations     5.9 (15.4)
Share of proﬁ t from associates      (2.7) (0.2)
Proﬁ t/(loss) from operations      3.2 (15.6)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13)     29.7 30.6
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 12)      0.3 0.5
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment     0.5 0.1
(Decrease)/increase in provisions       (2.5) 2.6
Excess of pension scheme contributions over charge     (2.9) (2.4)
Share-based payments (note 26)      0.9 0.3
Gain on disposal of investment (note 32)      (0.1) (3.0)
Loss/(gain) on disposal of businesses (note 32)     1.4 (6.6)
Non-cash impairment and asset write-downs (note 13)     13.4 33.9
Non-recurring gain on reversal of impairment (note 5)     (1.0) –
Non-recurring inventory write-downs      0.3 0.5
Non-recurring proﬁ t on sale of previously impaired equipment    (2.9) –
Non-recurring pension curtailment gains (note 24)     (0.3) –
Other non-cash items      (1.4) 0.4
Operating cash ﬂ ows before movement in working capital     38.6 41.3
Decrease in working capital      15.3 17.7
Cash generated by operations      53.9 59.0
Income taxes paid      (3.3) (3.1)
Net cash from operating activities      50.6 55.9
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    95 
32.  Acquisitions and disposals 
Year ended 31 December 2009
(i) On 31 July 2009, the Group entered into an agreement with Petropar S.A. (Petropar) to establish a 50/50 joint venture (JV), 
FitesaFiberweb, intended to create the second largest producer of spunbond nonwoven fabrics in the Americas. Further explanation 
of the strategic commercial rationale for the JV is given in the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 6 
and 11 respectively. 
Petropar contributed to the JV its existing nonwoven business in Brazil consisting of Fitesa. Fiberweb contributed its spunbond and 
spunmelt facilities based in Queretaro, Mexico and Washougal, US, as well as certain land and buildings at its site in Simpsonville, 
US. In addition, Fiberweb and Petropar contributed US$12.3 million and US$10 million in cash respectively, representing the cash 
generated by the respective operations between 31 December 2008 and 31 July 2009. 
Fiberweb has chosen to equity account for the JV in accordance with IAS 31. The initial cost of investment in the JV comprises:  
• 50% of the assets contributed by Fiberweb; plus 
• 50% of the fair value of the assets contributed by Petropar; plus
• capitalised transaction costs.
The table below sets out the assets and liabilities that were contributed to the JV by Fiberweb and reconciles the assets disposed at 
31 July 2009 to both the loss on disposal of the assets into the JV and to the initial carrying cost of the investment in the JV.
    
  31 July  31 December 
  2009 2008
  £’m £’m
Assets contributed:  
Property, plant and equipment 35.5 42.4
Inventories 3.7 4.5
Trade & other receivables 5.4 8.0
Current taxation 0.7 –
Deferred taxation (2.1) (2.3)
Trade & other payables (5.3) (6.6)
Retirement beneﬁ t obligations (0.3) (0.3)
  37.6 45.7
Deferred consideration (buildings to be transferred) 0.9 
Cash injection on completion 8.1 
Total Fiberweb contribution to the JV 46.6 
  
Capitalised cost of investment in JV:  
50% of Fiberweb contribution to the JV  23.3 
50% of the fair value of Petropar contribution to the JV 20.6 
Transaction costs  3.0
Cost of investment at 31 July 2009  46.9
Exchange differences  0.4
Cost of investment at 31 December 2009 (note 14)    47.3 
Loss on contribution of assets to the JV: 
50% of Fiberweb contribution to the JV     (23.3) 
50% of the fair value of Petropar contribution to the JV    20.6 
Loss on contribution of assets to the JV     (2.7)
Gain on curtailment of pension scheme in Washougal    0.3
Cumulative translation reserve – gains recycled    1.0
Net loss on creation of the JV (note 5)     (1.4) 96    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
32.  Acquisitions and disposals continued
The fair value of the assets contributed to the JV by Petropar at 31 July 2009 is analysed as follows:
As at 31 July 2009 Book and fair value
 to the Group 
 £’m
Assets contributed:   
Other tangible assets   0.6
Property, plant and equipment   79.8
Inventories   4.2
Trade & other receivables   28.2
Deferred taxation   (1.3)
Trade & other payables   (13.3)
Cash and cash equivalents   9.7
Bank loans   (66.7)
    41.2
50% of the fair value of Petropar’s contribution to the JV   20.6
The book value of the Fitesa assets is considered to approximate fair value, given that:
•  the Fitesa business primarily serves the industrial markets in the Mercosur region and there are no material contracts with 
customers to secure minimum volumes or prices;
• there are no material recognised brands within Fitesa’s product portfolio, and
•  the majority of the net book value of Fitesa’s plant and equipment comprises two new Reicoﬁ l 4 lines installed since 2006, such 
that the depreciated book value is considered a reasonable approximation of the current fair value of this equipment. 
The Fiberweb operations at Queretaro, Mexico and Washougal, US historically formed part of Fiberweb’s North American Hygiene 
business and, as such, were neither a separately reportable business nor geographic segment. Consequently, the disposal has not 
been accounted for as a discontinued operation for the purposes of IFRS 5 “Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations”.  Whilst, the disposal of these operations into the JV will impact the Group’s reported sales and gross margin, the 
Group’s share of the JV’s proﬁ ts will be equity accounted and reported through underlying operating proﬁ ts for the Hygiene and North 
American segments. The Group’s businesses in Washougal and Mexico contributed sales of £27.9 million (seven months to 31 July 
2009) and £51.8 million to the Group’s Hygiene segment in the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 respectively.  
(ii) On 1 April 2009, the company completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of its joint venture partner Nordenia 
International AG in Coronor Composites GmbH (“Coronor”) for a cash consideration of €3.1 million (£2.8 million). The effective date 
of the acquisition for consolidation purposes was 1 January 2009. 
Coronor manufactures unique composite materials made of nonwoven fabrics and ﬁ lms primarily for use in the manufacture of 
medical drapes and its sole manufacturing line is located within Fiberweb’s site at Peine, Germany. The acquisition is consistent 
with Fiberweb’s strategy of simplifying the Group and investing in businesses with potential for sustainable differentiation and good 
growth prospects.
Coronor’s gross assets as at 31 December 2008 were €4.0 million (£3.7 million), including €2.0 million cash (£1.9 million) and 
pre-tax proﬁ t for the year ended 31 December 2008 was €0.6 million (£0.6 million). In the year ended 31 December 2009, Coronor 
generated sales of £10.4 million and underlying operating proﬁ t of £0.2 million, included within the Group’s Industrial market 
segment. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    97 
32.  Acquisitions and disposals continued
The table below summarises the book and fair value to the Group of the assets and liabilities of this acquisition. The goodwill arising 
on the acquisition was £1.2 million.
 Book and fair value
 to the Group 
 £’m
Property, plant and equipment 0.8
Inventories 0.6
Trade & other receivables 0.8
Trade & other payables (0.5)
Current taxation (0.1)
Deferred taxation (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents 1.7
Total net assets 3.2 
50% net assets acquired 1.6
Goodwill (note 12) 1.2
Net cash consideration 2.8
(iii) On 26 June 2009, the Group agreed to acquire the remaining 35% interest in Chinese polyester spunbond fabric manufacturer, 
Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited it did not already own for a consideration of RMB 9,120,000 in cash (refer 
to notes 29 and 34). 
(iv) On 29 June 2009, the Group disposed of its 25.1% investment in CoraTech GmbH for a consideration of €750,000 in cash. The Group 
recognised a gain of £0.1 million on the transaction.
(v) Also in June 2009, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire a 26% interest in associate Terram Geosynthetics Private Limited 
for a consideration of £819,000 in cash (refer to notes 14 and 34).
Year ended 31 December 2008
(i) On 20 June 2008 the Group sold the entire issued share capital of its subsidiary Bidim to Mexcihem Amanco Holdings S.A. de 
C.V (“Mexichem”) for gross proceeds of BRL 55.5 million/ £17.6 million. The Group also received US$4.8 million/ £2.7 million in 
consideration for its agreement not to compete with Bidim in South America for a period of 42 months, which was satisﬁ ed by the 
assignment to the purchaser of certain obligations of the Group to Bidim. Bidim was neither a separate segment for the Group, nor 
material to the Group’s consolidated results and is therefore not a discontinued operation for the purposes of IFRS 5 “Non-Current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations”.
The net assets of Bidim at the date of disposal and at 31 December 2007 were as follows:
   20 June 31 December
   2008 2007
  Note £’m £’m
Property, plant and equipment 14 9.0 7.9
Intangible assets 13 0.1 0.1
Inventories  2.5 2.1
Trade receivables  3.0 3.3
Other receivables  2.0 1.2
Current tax liability  (0.7) (0.4)
Deferred tax liability 26 (0.2) (0.2)
Trade payables  (1.2) (0.6)
Other payables  (1.3) (0.7)
Cumulative translation reserve  (6.1) (4.9)
   7.1 7.8
Gain on disposal 5 6.6 
Total consideration (net of disposal costs)  13.7 
Satisﬁ ed by – Cash  13.7
  98    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
32.  Acquisitions and disposals continued
Year ended 31 December 2008 continued
The following table highlights Bidim’s contribution to the Group’s trading performance and cash ﬂ ows in the period ended 20 June 
2008 and in the year ended 31 December 2007:
  20 June 31 December
  2008 2007
  £’m £’m
Sales 7.9 14.2
Underlying operating proﬁ t 0.4 1.3
Proﬁ t before tax 0.9 0.9
Net operating cash inﬂ ow 1.1 1.8
Cash outﬂ ow from investing activities – (1.2)
Cash outﬂ ow from ﬁ nancing activities – (0.1)
(ii) On 21 May 2008, the Group sold its 15% investment in SGN for US$7.3 million/ £3.5 million. The Group recognised a gain on disposal 
of £3.0 million before tax of £0.7 million. Prior to the disposal, the Group received dividends of £0.8 million from SGN in respect of its 
share of prior period proﬁ ts.
33.  Contingent liabilities
The Fiberweb business is party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business, including speciﬁ c 
product liability and environmental claims in Fiberweb North America. Any liabilities are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, 
insurance, reserves and third party indemnities.
The Directors do not currently anticipate that the outcome of the proceedings and claims set out above either individually, or in 
aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon Fiberweb’s ﬁ nancial position.
34.  Related party transactions
Transactions between Fiberweb plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Details of transactions between Fiberweb and other related parties are detailed below.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate. 
  2009 2008
  £’m £’m
Short-term beneﬁ ts 2.4 2.4
Post-employment beneﬁ ts 0.2 0.2
Termination beneﬁ ts – 0.8
Share-based payments 0.6 0.3
  3.2 3.7
Amounts included in the above expense that are outstanding at 31 December 2009 are £0.6 million (2008: £0.4 million).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    99 
34.  Related party transactions continued
Transactions with associates and joint ventures
Terram Geosynthetics Private Limited
During the year, the Group invested £0.8 million to acquire a 26% interest in associate Terram Geosynthetics Private Limited in India. 
In addition, Terram Limited sold previously impaired production equipment to the associate for proceeds of £1.75 million, recognising 
a gain on disposal, after elimination of the 26% unrealised portion of the gain, of £0.8 million within non-recurring cost of sales (see 
notes 5 and 32). 
Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited
In connection with the acquisition of the remaining 35% share in Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited for RMB 
9,120,000, the Group paid RMB 5,472,000 during the year. The balance of the purchase price of RMB 3,648,000 is payable in the year 
ended 31 December 2010 and is included within Trade and Other Payables at 31 December 2009. RMB 250,000 is also included within 
Administrative expenses for the year for rent of the plant from the ex-JV partner.  
FitesaFiberweb joint venture
FitesaFiberweb was formed on 31 July 2009 (see note 32). In accordance with a Transition Services Agreement signed on completion, 
the Group continues to provide certain administrative support services for FitesaFiberweb, primarily in connection with accounting, 
IT and human resource support. The Group also provides R&D services for the joint venture. Administrative support services are 
charged at cost plus an appropriate mark-up, based on either time spent or volume of transactions processed. R&D fees are charged 
at an agreed rate per volume of product sold. 
  2009 2008
  £’m £’m
Amounts included in Other Operating Income (note 4):  
Transition services provided (administrative & IT support) 0.3 –
Research and development fees 0.2 –
  0.5 –
Amounts included in Other Receivables (note 17) 0.5 –
The amounts outstanding at 31 December are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Other related party transactions
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
Dividends paid to BBA      – 0.5
Net amounts owed by BBA   
  – tax indemnity (see note 17)     3.6 4.0
35.  Subsidiary and associated undertakings
The detailed list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2008 is shown in note 3 to 
the Company Financial Statements.
  100    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF FIBERWEB PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements 
of Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which 
comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 14.  The 
ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose.  
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and for being satisﬁ ed 
that they give a true and fair view.  Our responsibility is to audit 
the parent company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland).  Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error.  This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of signiﬁ cant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁ nancial 
statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁ nancial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2009;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁ nancial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company ﬁ nancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by 
law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group ﬁ nancial statements 
of Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
John Adam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, UK
4 March 2010     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    101 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   2009 2008
  Note £’m £’m
Fixed assets   
Investments in subsidiaries 3 308.1 311.7
Property, plant and equipment 4 0.4 0.4
   308.5 312.1
   
Current assets   
Debtors 5 26.4 21.6
Cash at bank and in hand  9.1 7.2
Corporation tax  0.3 0.3
   35.8 29.1
   
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year   
Trade and other creditors 6 (4.6) (3.5)
Bank overdrafts  (9.2) (3.4)
   (13.8) (6.9)
   
Net current assets  22.0 22.2
Total assets less current liabilities  330.5 334.3
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year   
Bank loans 7 (156.0) (156.5)
NET ASSETS  174.5 177.8
   
CAPITAL AND RESERVES   
Called-up share capital 9 6.1 6.1
Share premium account 10 84.5 84.5
Capital reserve 11 1.2 0.3
Proﬁ t and loss account 12 82.7 86.9
  13 174.5 177.8
The ﬁ nancial statements of Fiberweb plc, registered number 05683352, were approved by the board of directors and authorised for 
issue on 4 March 2010. They were signed on its behalf by:
Daniel Abrams
Director
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own proﬁ t and loss account for 
the year. Fiberweb plc reported a proﬁ t for the year ended 31 December 2009 of £0.9 million (2008: £8.4 million). 
The Company audit fee is included within the Group audit fee in the current year and cannot be separately identiﬁ ed.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2009 102    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2009
1.  Basis of accounting
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared using the historical 
cost convention and in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and accounting standards. They have also been 
prepared on the going concern basis as described in the Going 
Concern Statement in the Directors’ Report on page 40 of the 
Group’s Annual Report. 
The principal accounting policies are set out below. They have all 
been applied consistently throughout the period.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in 
FRS1 “Cash Flow Statements” and has not produced a cash ﬂ ow 
statement. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
contained in FRS8 “Related Party Transactions” and has not 
reported transactions with fellow Group undertakings. 
Investments
Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are 
stated at cost less provision for impairment. Given that Group 
Reconstruction Relief is available under section 611 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”), the Company has taken advantage 
of the related option under section 611(1) of the Act to record 
the cost of the investments in Terram and the US subsidiaries 
at the nominal value of the shares issued in satisfaction of the 
acquisition.  
Treasury
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling 
at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at 
the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from a change 
in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is 
recognised in the income statement. 
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for and 
presented under FRS26 (Revised) “Financial Instruments – 
Measurement” and FRS25 “Financial Instruments – Disclosure 
and Presentation”. Derivative financial instruments utilised 
by the Company comprise foreign exchange contracts, interest rate 
swaps and commodity derivatives. All such instruments are used 
for hedging purposes to manage the risk proﬁ le of an underlying 
exposure of the Group in line with the Group’s risk management 
policies. All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance 
sheet at fair value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative 
instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as 
a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of gains or losses on hedges is deferred in 
reserves until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in 
the income statement. The ineffective portion of such gains and 
losses is recognised in the income statement immediately.  
Changes in the fair value of the derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 
income statement as they arise. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and ﬁ nancial liabilities are recognised on the 
Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at 
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁ ed according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual 
interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its 
liabilities.  
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to 
the proﬁ t and loss account using the effective interest method 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to 
the extent that they are not settled in the period in which 
they arise. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Share-based payments 
Fiberweb plc operates four share-based compensation plans which 
are detailed in note 26 to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements. 
Under FRS 20 the equity-settled share-based payments under 
these schemes are measured at fair value at the date of grant. 
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed within 
staff costs in the income statement on a straight line basis over 
the vesting period based on the Group’s estimate of shares that 
will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market 
based vesting conditions.
The fair value of shares awarded under the plans has been 
calculated using the stochastic pricing model using the market 
value of shares adjusted to take into account market based 
performance conditions where applicable. 
The Company has followed the guidance set out in UITF 44 
(Group and Treasury Share Transactions) where the Company 
issues shares in relation to share options granted to Directors 
and employees for services rendered to the Company’s 
subsidiaries. The Company records an additional investment 
in its subsidiaries by way of a capital contribution 
when issuing shares in relation to these share schemes.  
The amount charged to the Company’s profit in the year 
ended 31 December 2009 in respect of share-based 
payment schemes was £0.3 million (2008: £0.2 million). 
The amount charged to Group profit in the year ended 
31 December 2009 was £0.9 million (2008: £0.3 million). 
The amount recorded as an additional investment in the 
Company’s subsidiaries was £0.6 million (2008: £0.1 million). 
Tangible ﬁ xed assets
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet 
at cost. Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of 
property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and 
is calculated on a straight line basis over the following estimated 
useful lives of the assets:
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease
Ofﬁ ce ﬁ xtures and equipment 3–5 years
Plant and equipment 10 years OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    103 
1.  Basis of accounting continued
Leases 
Where assets are ﬁ nanced by lease agreements that give rights 
similar to ownership (ﬁ nance leases), the assets are treated 
as if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments 
are shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation 
values of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over 
the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of 
the assets concerned. The capital elements of future leases are 
recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged 
to the income statement over the period of the leases to produce 
a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments 
outstanding. 
For all other leases (operating leases), the rental payments are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over 
the lives of the leases. 
Pension and post-retirement benefits 
Payments to deﬁ ned contribution retirement beneﬁ t schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the proﬁ t for the year and 
takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes. Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities. 
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely than not that 
they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have 
not been discounted. 
2.  Dividends
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a ﬁ nal 
dividend of 2.50 pence per share (2008: 2.50 pence per share) will 
be paid to shareholders on 27 May 2010. This dividend is subject 
to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in 
accordance with FRS 21, “Events after the Balance Sheet Date”, 
has not been recorded as a liability in these ﬁ nancial statements. 
The proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the 
Register of Members on 23 April 2010. The total estimated 
dividend payable is £3.0 million (2008: £3.0 million). 
3.  Investments 
 Investment in Loans to 
 subsidiaries subsidiaries Total 
Cost and carrying value £’m £’m £’m
As at 1 January 2009 42.9 268.8 311.7
Loans advanced in the period – 8.1 8.1 
Exchange losses – (11.7) (11.7)
As at 31 December 2009 42.9 265.2 308.1
The following is a list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2009, each of which is 
wholly-owned unless otherwise stated. Subsidiaries marked * are owned directly by the company.
 Country of
 incorporation
 and principal
Name operation
Subsidiaries  
Fiberweb China Airlaid Company Limited China
Fiberweb (Tianjin) 
Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited China
Fiberweb France SAS France
Fiberweb Holdings Deutschland GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Berlin GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Corovin GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Linotec Developments GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Blowitex GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Asia Paciﬁ c Limited Hong Kong
Fiberweb Italia SpA Italy
Korma SpA Italy
Tenotex SpA Italy
Fiberweb China Holdings BV Netherlands
Fiberweb Sweden AB Sweden
Fiberweb Switzerland AG Switzerland
 Country of
 incorporation
 and principal
Name operation
Subsidiaries  
Fiberweb Holdings Limited * UK
Fiberweb US Holdings Limited * UK
Terram Limited * UK
Fiberweb Joint Venture 1 Limited * UK
Fiberweb Joint Venture 2 Limited UK
Fiberweb Brazil Limited UK
Fiberweb Simpsonville Incorporated USA
Fiberweb Washougal Incorporated USA
Fiberweb Incorporated USA
Fiberweb Industrial Textiles Incorporated USA
Fiberweb USA Holdings Incorporated USA
Associates and
other investments  % interest  
Cordustex (Pty) Limited  10  South Africa
Terram Geosynthetics
Private Limited  26  India 104    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2009 continued
4.  Property, plant and equipment
    Leasehold Fixtures &  
    improvements ﬁ ttings Total
    £’m £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January and 31 December 2009    0.2 0.6 0.8
Depreciation  
At 1 January and 31 December 2009    0.1 0.3 0.4
Net book value  
At 1 January and 31 December 2009    0.1 0.3 0.4
5.  Debtors
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings     24.9 20.8
Other debtors     0.6 –
Prepayments     0.8 0.1
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (note 6)     – 0.6
VAT recoverable     0.1 0.1
      26.4 21.6
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings comprise management recharges, group insurance recharges and loan interest invoiced 
during the year.
6.  Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
Trade creditors     0.7 0.6
Accruals and deferred income     3.7 2.8
Other taxes and social security     0.1 0.1
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (note 5)     0.1 –
      4.6 3.5
7.  Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
Bank loans – repayable between two and ﬁ ve years    156.4 157.1
Less: unamortised prepaid facility fees     (0.4) (0.6)
      156.0 156.5
As of the balance sheet date, the Group’s primary source of funds was a $400 million (reduced from $439.5 million since demerger) 
multi-currency, revolving credit facility (“the original RCF”) provided by a syndicate of several international banks, maturing in 2011. 
Borrowings under this facility are in Euro, US Dollars and Swedish Krona for maturities of up to six months. All amounts drawn down 
are at ﬂ oating interest rates. The effective rates on borrowings are not materially different from their nominal interest rates. 
The original RCF is guaranteed by a number of the Group’s trading entities in respect of the parent’s liabilities. 
At year end the Group had available $147.1 million (2008: $179.4 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
A new loan facility was entered into in February 2010 for a term of 3½ years until July 2013 and for an amount of £205 million, 
comprising multi-currency facilities of €110 million and US$170 million. For further details regarding this facility please refer to note 
21 of the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    105 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.  Share-based payments
Since demerger, Fiberweb has issued its own share-based payment compensation plans. These plans are explained in detail in note 
26 to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements. 
9.  Called-up share capital
    2009 2008
    £’m £’m
Authorised: 200 million ordinary shares of 5p each  10.0 10.0
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p   6.1 6.1
Number of shares in issue  
Beginning and end of year   122,440,375 122,440,375
There were no changes to the Company’s share capital during the year ended 31 December 2009.
10.  Share premium account
    2009 2008
    £’m £’m
As at 1 January and 31 December   84.5 84.5
11.  Capital reserve
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payments, equity settled share-based payments are credited to an equity reserve. The Company 
recognised a total expense in relation to share-based payments under equity-settled schemes of £0.9 million (2008: £0.3 million).
  2009 2008
  £’m £’m
At 1 January 0.3 0.6
Cost of share-based payments during the year 0.9 0.3
Share options lapsed  – (0.6)
At 31 December  1.2 0.3
12.  Proﬁ t and loss account
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
At 1 January       86.9 83.1
Dividends paid      (5.1) (5.1)
Share options lapsed and deferred tax on options     – 0.5
Proﬁ t for the year      0.9 8.4
At 31 December      82.7 86.9 106    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
For the period ended 31 December 2009 continued
13.  Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
      2009 2008
      £’m £’m
At 1 January       177.8 174.3
Proﬁ t for the year      0.9 8.4
Dividends paid      (5.1) (5.1)
Addition to/(reduction in) capital reserves      0.9 (0.3)
Share options lapsed and deferred tax on options     – 0.5
At 31 December       174.5 177.8
Equity comprises share capital, share premium, capital reserve and retained earnings.
14.  Related party disclosures
For periods beginning before 6 April 2008, FRS 8.3(c) provided an exemption from disclosure in the ﬁ nancial statements of subsidiary 
undertakings, 90 per cent or more of whose voting rights are controlled within the group, of transactions with entities that are part 
of the group or investees of the group qualifying as related parties, provided that the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements in which that 
subsidiary is included are publicly available.  
This paragraph is amended in the revised Standard and in the Companies Act 2006, for periods beginning on or after 6 April 2008, 
so that the exemption includes the parent company as well as subsidiaries and so deals with intra-group transactions with 100% 
subsidiaries. However it does not provide exemption from disclosure of transactions with partly owned subsidiaries or with parties 
outside the group. The Company wishes to take advantage of this exemption therefore only these transactions are disclosed. 
These can be found in the notes to the Group statutory ﬁ nancial statements (Note 34).     FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    107 
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOUR YEAR REVIEW
The Group was demerged from BBA Aviation plc in November 2006. Proforma results showing performance for the full year ended 
31 December 2006, as if the Group had legally existed in its demerged form from 1 January 2006, has been presented below for the 
purposes of meaningful comparison. 
   2009 2008 2007
(1)
 2006
(1)
  2006
   £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Results     
Revenue   454.2 512.8 473.6 499.9 584.7
     
Underlying proﬁ t from operations   23.1 18.8 13.8 27.1 27.5
Net ﬁ nance costs   (12.0) (9.8) (10.8) (14.5) (14.7)
Underlying proﬁ t before tax   11.1 9.0 3.0 12.6 12.8
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items  (17.2) (34.2) (103.1) (62.4) (97.1)
Total loss before tax   (6.1) (25.2) (100.1) (49.8) (84.3)
     
Proﬁ t/(loss) attributable to the equity holders 
of Fiberweb plc   0.5 (22.0) (112.5) (69.3) (69.3)
     
Assets employed     
Non-current assets   322.3 354.7 299.7 428.7 428.7
Current assets   153.8 191.1 173.3 216.7 216.7
Current liabilities   (94.9) (126.0) (104.8) (95.9) (95.9) 
Non-current liabilities   (208.6) (223.2) (182.9) (252.5) (252.5)
Net assets   172.6 196.6 185.3 297.0 297.0
     
Earnings/(Loss) per share   0.4p (18.0)p (76.3)p (35.3)p (56.5)p 
     
Adjusted
(2)
 earnings per share   9.7p 7.4p 2.6p 5.1p 5.4p
(1)
  Figures for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 are presented for continuing operations following the disposal of the Hygiene 
Wipes business in May 2007. 2006 ﬁ gures are also shown as originally published (prior to restatement for discontinued operations) 
to show the impact of these divestments.
(2)
  Adjusted earnings per share is shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and other non-recurring items because the 
directors consider this gives a better indication of underlying performance.  108    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
Analysis of Shareholdings
Dividend re-investment plan
A scheme which allows you to use your dividend to buy further 
shares in Fiberweb plc
Capita IRG Trustees Limited are offering shareholders in Fiberweb 
plc the opportunity to participate in a Dividend Re-investment 
Plan (DRIP).
What is a Dividend Re-investment Plan (DRIP)
This is a plan that allows private shareholders to reinvest cash 
dividends from their investments cheaply and easily back into 
Fiberweb plc shares and so obtain the beneﬁ ts of compounding.
How is the plan managed?
The plan is managed by administrator, Capita IRG Trustees 
Limited (CIRGT). They are authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Services Authority.
On the dividend date, shareholders who join the plan are still paid 
the cash dividend, but CIRGT then uses the cash to buy shares in 
Fiberweb on behalf of the shareholder. Please note that CIRGT 
may not offer a DRIP for every dividend paid. If a DRIP is not made 
available, the shareholder will receive the cash dividend.
What are the benefits to shareholders?
•  You can increase your shareholding over the long term at lower 
dealing commission rates than are generally available through 
retail brokers; 
•  Compounding effect of increasing shareholding and dividend 
payments;
• Offers the protection of a regulated service;
•  An alternative for overseas shareholders in qualifying countries 
who may have difﬁ culty cashing sterling dividend cheques due 
to high bank charges.
What price will the shares be bought at?
CIRGT instructs its broker to buy shares on the dividend payment at 
the current market price. Deals are aggregated for all shareholders.  
Shareholders will not be aware of the share price when they sign up 
for the DRIP.
What happens to any cash dividend left over?
Any cash dividend left over which is insufﬁ cient to purchase a whole 
share will be carried forward and held, without interest, in a Client 
Money bank account.
How much does the Plan cost?
The DRIP commission charged to the Shareholders is one per 
cent of the purchase price of the shares, with a minimum charge 
of £2.50 plus SDRT, charged at the prevailing rate of the deal 
value (currently 0.5%). Full details of all costs will be sent to 
you by CIRGT.
How do Shareholders apply?
Enclosed with this Annual Report is a reply paid post card 
which you should complete and return to Capita Registrars 
to enable them to send you further information together 
with a Form of Election. Alternatively you can contact the 
Registrars by telephone on 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10p per 
minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm 
Mon-Fri) - if calling from overseas +44 (0) 208 639 3402, or
e mail shares@capitaregistrars.com to request documentation. 
Please note that to participate in the Plan in respect of the 2009 
ﬁ nal dividend payable on 27 May 2010, you must return your 
Form of Election to Capita Registrars by 1 May 2010. Forms of 
Election received after this date will be registered but will not 
take effect until the next dividend payable.
Share Dealing Services
A quick and easy share dealing service is available to either buy 
or sell Fiberweb plc shares. An on-line and telephone dealing 
facility is available providing shareholders with an easy to access 
and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, 
please contact www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing) or 0871 
664 0445 (telephone dealing - calls cost 10p per minute plus 
network extras, lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Mon-Fri).
Key dates
Financial Calendar
Dividend and interest payments: 
Final 2009 27 May 2010
Interim 2010 November 2010 
Announcement of Group Results
Half year results  August 2010
Share price information
The price of the Company’s shares is available on the 
Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com.   
Registered office
1 Victoria Villas, Richmond on Thames, London TW9 2GW.
Company number 05683352
Company registrar
Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park,
Fenay Bridge, Huddersﬁ eld HD8 OLA.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras, lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Mon-Fri).
E mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Web site: http://www.capitaregistrars.com
Please contact the registrars directly if you wish to advise a 
change of name, address, or dividend mandate. Alternatively, you 
can view up to date information and manage your shareholding 
through our Registrars’ Share Portal where you will be able to 
access and maintain your holding at your own convenience. You 
will require your unique investor code, which can be found on your 
share certiﬁ cate or dividend tax voucher. The URL for the portal is
www.capitashareportal.com.
  % of total Number % of
 Number of number of of shares share 
 shareholders shareholders held capital
Size of holding
Ordinary shareholdings at 31 December 2009
1 – 1,000 2,674 77.64 682,882 0.56
1,001 – 5,000 421 12.22 920,668 0.75
5,001 – 10,000 115 3.34 819,284 0.67
10,001 – 50,000 99 2.87 2,333,598 1.91
50,001 – 100,000 28 0.81 1,992,236 1.63
100,001 upwards 107 3.11 115,691,707 94.86
 3,444 100.00 122,440,375 100.00
Holders    
Individuals 2,861 83.07 3,813,466 3.11
Pension funds 8 0.23 7,711 0.01
Nominee and 
other Companies 568 16.49 118,230,459 96.56
Other Institutions 7 0.20 388,739 0.32
 3,444 100.00 122,440,375 100.00
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  Designed and produced by Weber Shandwick Financial Design
Printed by Park Communications www.ﬁ berweb.com
