 Fiberweb plc
AnnuAl report 
And FinAnciAl St AtementS  
2011 TM indicates a trade mark of Fiberweb plc or a Fiberweb Group company, many of which are registered in a number of countries around 
the world. 
Typar is a brand name for a specific family of fabrics sold primarily by Fiberweb in North America.
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, 
assumptions, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Fiberweb and the Group 
to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 
Shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual 
Report. Except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, Fiberweb undertakes no 
obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this document.
Fiberweb is a focused speciality industrial and construction 
materials business.
With vast experience in its field and a strong international 
presence, Fiberweb has long been regarded as a technological 
innovator with a strong portfolio of intellectual property and as a 
preferred partner for customers focused on high quality and 
reliable supply.
Contents
 
1 FiNANCiAL RESULTS 
2 OUR OpERATiONS AT A GLANCE
4 ChAiRMAN’S STATEMENT
6 ChiEF ExECUTivE’S REviEW
10 BUSiNESS REviEW
23 FiNANCiAL REviEW
36 BOARD OF DiRECTORS
38 DiRECTORS’ REpORT
41 CORpORATE GOvERNANCE
46 DiRECTORS’ REMUNERATiON REpORT
53 DiRECTORS’ RESpONSiBiLiTY STATEMENT
54 iNDEpENDENT AUDiTORS’ REpORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF   
 FiBERWEB pLC
55 CONSOLiDATED iNCOME STATEMENT
56 CONSOLiDATED STATEMENT OF COMpREhENSivE iNCOME
57 CONSOLiDATED BALANCE ShEET
58 CONSOLiDATED CASh FLOW STATEMENT
59 CONSOLiDATED STATEMENT OF ChANGES iN EqUiTY
60 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLiDATED FiNANCiAL STATEMENTS
97 iNDEpENDENT AUDiTORS’ REpORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF   
 FiBERWEB pLC
98 COMpANY BALANCE ShEET
99 NOTES TO ThE COMpANY BALANCE ShEET
104 FivE YEAR REviEW
105 ShAREhOLDER iNFORMATiON 1    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    1  
Financial Results
£ millions (unless otherwise stated) 2011 2010
  Restated
(3)
results from underlying
(1,3)
 continuing operations: 
revenue 297.8 269.2
Underlying
(1)
 Operating Profit 10.8 20.9
Finance costs
(4)
 15.9 14.8
Underlying
(1)
 (Loss)/Profit before T ax (5.1) 6.1
Underlying
(1)
 (Loss)/Profit after tax (1.3) 6.0
Adjusted
(2)
 (Loss)/Earnings per share (0.8)p 4.5p
  
results from continuing operations after restructuring,  
amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items:  
Operating Profit 8.7 17.3
(Loss)/Profit before tax (7.2) 2.5
(Loss)/Profit after tax (3.0) 2.4
Basic (Loss)/Earnings per share  (1.8)p 1.8p
Net Cash/(Debt) 22.0 (151.2)
results from discontinued operations  
Profit for the year from discounted operations 11.8 4.8 
Total results for the year  
Profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations 8.8 7.2
(1) Underlying profit measures are before restructuring charges, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items, as set out in the 
Consolidated Income Statement
(2) Adjusted to exclude restructuring charges, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items 
(3) All results are restated to show the continuing group following the disposal of the Hygiene business which is classified as a discontinued operation
(4) No allocation of interest charges relating to the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility has been made to discontinued operations on the basis that debt and 
related service costs are managed on a Group basis and cannot be meaningfully allocated
(5) ROCE is defined as underlying operating profit from continuing operations/total fixed assets and working capital
Highlights
•	 A year of strategic transformation with the sale of the majority of the Group’s hygiene nonwovens business
•	 Significantly strengthened balance sheet with net cash of £22.0 million (before settlement of transaction costs and 
related restructuring estimated at £10 million) following disposal of the Hygiene business (2010: £151.2 million net debt)
Continuing Operations
•	 3% increase in volumes in the continuing Group, with T echnical Fabrics up 1% and Geosynthetics up 15% reflecting the 
acquisitions of T ubex and Boddingtons in the year
•	 revenues from continuing operations of £297.8 million up 11% (2010: £269.2 million); like-for-like up 3.4% after 
adjusting for the impact of acquisitions (£19.4 million)
•	 Underlying
(1)
 operating profit of £10.8 million (2010: £20.9 million) after one-time £5.0 million impact of Pontypool and 
Berlin operational issues and £3.8 million net adverse raw material impact 
•	 Underlying
(1)
 operating margin of 3.6% (2010: 7.8%) 
•	 Working capital as a percentage of annualised sales of 15.4% (31 December 2010: 13.1%) with ROCE
(5)
 reduced at 
5.6% (2010: 13.7%) 
•	 Adjusted
(2)
 loss per share of 0.8p (2010: Earnings per share of 4.5p)
•	 Final dividend of 2.0p (2010: 2.5p) making a total dividend of 3.0p for the year (2010: 4.2p), in line with expectations at 
the time of the rights issue
Discontinued Operations
•	 Underlying operating profit of £14.2 million (2010: £8.1 million)
•	 £1.5 million gain on disposal of the Hygiene business
  2    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
2011  £297.8m
2010 £269.2m
Revenue*
£297.8m (2010: £269.2m) +10.6%
2011  £10.8m
2010 £20.9m
Underlying Operating Profit
(1)
*
£10.8m (2010: £20.9m) -(48.3%)
2011  £(5.1)m
2010 £6.1m
Underlying (Loss)/Profit Before T ax 
(1)
*
£(5.1)m (2010: £6.1m) - (183.6%)
2011    (0.8p)
2010  4.5p
Underlying Earnings Per Share 
(1)
*
(0.8)p (2010: 4.5p) - (117.8%)
2011  £11.8m
2010 £4.8m
Profit for the year from discontinued operations*
£11.8m (2010: £4.8m) + 245.8%
2011  £8.8m
2010  £7.2m
Profit after tax from continuing and discontinued 
operations* £8.8m (2010: £7.2m) + 22.2%
Financial Results
Our operations at glance
Following the sale of the majority of its 
Hygiene business, Fiberweb has around 
1,200 employees worldwide and major 
operations on 8 sites in North America, 
Europe and Australia.
2011  £234.5m
2010  £218.7m
Revenue
£234.5m (2010: £218.7m) +7.2%
T echnical Fabrics
2011  £63.3m
2010  £50.5m
Revenue
£63.3m (2010: £50.5m) +25.3%
Geosynthetics
* All results are from continuing operations, and 2010 has been restated for the re-presentation of the disposed Hygiene business as a discontinued operation.
(1) 
Underlying profit measures are before restructuring charges, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items.
Global HQ
Sales offices
Manufacturing facilities
Global HQ
Sales offices
Manufacturing facilities Global HQ
Sales offices
Manufacturing facilities
Global HQ
Sales offices
Manufacturing facilities 2    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    3  
Technical fabrics are used widely in many industrial 
markets. Fiberweb has a strong position in filtration, 
the construction industry, drier sheet and graphic arts 
markets amongst others.
In filtration, Fiberweb manufactures the well known 
Reemay
®
 brand of high-precision polyester fabrics as 
well as meltblown polypropylene filtration layers for 
facemasks and high-strength Typar
®
 polypropylene 
fabrics as support scrims. 
In the construction industry, Fiberweb manufactures 
fabrics for roofing applications.
In North America, consumers typically apply fabric 
softener to their clothes through the use of an 
impregnated drier sheet in a tumble dryer. This is a 
technically demanding application and Fiberweb is a 
leading supplier of the necessary substrate.
In the graphic arts industry, there is a demand for 
specialised wipes and roller covers used in the set-up 
of off-set lithographic printing processes and in more 
modern digital printing equipment. 
AGRICULTURE AUTOMOTIVE BUILDING DRIER SHEETS
FILTRATION GRAPHIC ARTS INDUSTRIAL SPECIALTY MEDICAL PRODUCTS
T echnical Fabrics
Geosynthetics comprises the Terram, Tubex and 
Boddingtons brands in the UK, the US, Australia and 
Germany and Fiberweb’s Typar
®
 housewrap, roofing 
and geotextile brand in the US and the global 
Defencell business.
The integration of the businesses and their respective 
brands, operating primarily in the UK and US with a 
strong background and proven excellence within the 
Civil, Building Construction, Military, Forestry and 
Horticulture and Landscaping sectors, offers 
enhanced commercial opportunities as well as 
adding value to existing customers through a 
significantly expanded product portfolio.
FORESTRY AND 
VITICULTURE
BUILDING
LANDSCAPING
CIVIL ENGINEERING
MILITARY
Geosynthetics Chairman’s Statement 
1
The most significant event of the year was the transformational 
sale of the majority of the Group’s hygiene nonwovens 
business to Petropar S.A. for an enterprise value of £229 
million representing an exit multiple of 6.2x underlying 2010 
EBITDA. The sale of around 40% of the Group, including six 
manufacturing sites in five countries with around 600 
employees, was a complex and challenging undertaking, 
demanding a great deal of management resource. Since 
2006, Fiberweb has struggled with a heavy inherited debt load 
and the need for significant investment. We have improved the 
hygiene business significantly through rationalisation and 
investments, took a major strategic step in 2009 with the 
formation of the FitesaFiberweb joint venture with Petropar 
and, with this disposal, have exited a commoditised and 
capital-intensive sector at an excellent price, leaving the  
Group debt-free. 
This transaction re-creates Fiberweb as a smaller, more 
tightly-focused specialty industrial and construction materials 
business, with particular competitive strengths in products for 
filtration, industrial processing, soil and construction 
engineering, drier sheets and several medical areas. With 
sales of some £300 million, eight manufacturing sites in six 
countries, and 1,200 valued employees, Fiberweb is well-
equipped to grow profitably in selected niche areas where high 
levels of technical and service differentiation are valued by 
customers. The £24 million proceeds of the rights issue in 
March, plus the £167 million immediately provided by the 
disposal have strengthened the balance sheet significantly, 
ensuring that we are well-placed to finance future growth and 
to exploit the uncertain economic environment that currently 
faces us. A further £17 million, including interest, is expected 
from Petropar at the end of 2012, when the 6% Vendor Loan 
Note that formed part of the consideration matures.
The two acquisitions made during 2011 underline our ability  
to execute our strategy for growth. Both Boddingtons, 
acquired in January 2011, and T ubex, acquired in May 2011, 
are specialised, niche businesses with strong market 
positions. They have enhanced Fiberweb’s existing T erram 
geotextile business, adding higher-margin, complementary 
products and allowing rationalisation of facilities and 
organisations. Both acquisitions are performing in-line with  
our expectations and post-acquisition rationalisation activities 
are almost complete, with two sites closing in the UK and 
T ubex production already commissioned at the Group’s  
Old Hickory site in the US.
The performance of our continuing business in 2011 was 
impacted by two significant operational issues: firstly, during 
the integration of T erram and Boddingtons, output and pricing 
issues at T erram hit margins and, secondly, during the planned 
relocation of activity from Königswinter to Berlin, it proved to 
be impossible to maintain adequate production resulting in 
delayed sales and yield reduction. While this is disappointing, 
following three years from 2008 to 2010 in which we delivered 
steady operational and margin improvement, both issues have 
largely been resolved and we expect steady improvement 
during 2012.
Financial results
The continuing Fiberweb Group, that is excluding the disposed 
hygiene business, produced sales of £297.8 million and 
underlying earnings before interest and taxes of £10.8 million. 
On an ongoing basis, with net cash and an anticipated tax 
charge of around 33%, this performance would have resulted 
in net earnings of around £6 million or roughly 3.4 pence per 
share. However, with the disposal occurring at the end of the 
year, the full interest costs of the debt that we had during the 
year are allocated to the continuing business and the actual 
tax credit applied reflects this interest cost and tax losses that 
have been capitalised during the year. As a result, the reported 
results indicate a net underlying loss after tax from continuing 
operations of £1.3 million (2010: £6.0 million profit) giving an 
adjusted loss of 0.8 pence (2010: 4.5 pence earnings) per 
share.
On a statutory basis, in 2011 the Group as a whole delivered 
profit after tax of £8.8 million (2010: £7.2 million), representing 
earnings per share of 5.3 pence (2010: 5.4 pence). The gain 
on disposal of the hygiene business was £1.5 million.
The results of the continuing business did not meet our 
medium-term goals for the continuing industrial-focused 
business of growth of around 2x GDP growth in our Western 
European and North American markets, 8-10% underlying 
PBIT
2
 return on sales and a return on capital employed of 
15%. However, there are many initiatives in the areas of cost 
reduction, operational improvement and innovation which are 
going to contribute significantly to delivering performance in 
line with our goals over the next few years.
The major financial events of 2011, notably the sale and 
operating leaseback of the large new utility plant 
commissioned at Old Hickory during 2010, the rights issue in 
March and the hygiene disposal, have resulted in a hugely-
strengthened balance sheet. This leaves us well positioned to 
finance further investments and also to consider possible 
acquisitions to accelerate the development of attractive 
elements of the business.
2011 was a watershed year for Fiberweb, with transformational change in our business 
portfolio and in the balance sheet. Operationally, while 2011 was a challenging year with a 
huge amount of corporate activity, we achieved several strategic objectives, and are now 
focused on the operational improvements necessary to deliver further value to shareholders. 
With a focused portfolio of attractive specialty industrial and construction materials 
businesses and a new, lean management structure, we have set new and attractive medium-
term financial goals and expect to make significant progress in 2012.
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
1
 Throughout the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review and Financial Review, the commentary reflects the re-presentation of the prior year to show the 
results of the disposed hygiene business as a discontinued operation.  
2
 Profit before interest and tax.
4    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011   Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    5  
Dividends
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend at the 
expected level of 2.0 pence per share. This would give a total 
payout for 2011 of 3.0 pence per share, consistent with the 
stated objective at the time of the rights issue of keeping the 
distribution by the Company stable at around £5.2 million 
per annum. On the basis of the continuing business with a 
normalised tax and interest charge based on the post-disposal 
balance sheet, the dividend would be covered 1.1 times 
notwithstanding the operational issues that hit the results in 
2011. It is expected that the dividend will grow over time as 
performance improves, consistent with the stated policy of 
a minimum 30% payout of net earnings. The final dividend, 
if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 25 May 2012 to 
shareholders on the register on 27 April 2012 and the shares will 
go ex-dividend on 25 April 2012.
The board and Management
The Board remained unchanged during the year, though on  
3 January 2012 it was announced that Dan Abrams, CFO since 
2008, will leave the Company in March 2012. Dan has been 
central to the turnaround of the Group over the past 4 years and 
we thank him for his efforts and significant contributions during 
that time.
His place will be taken by Kate Miles. Kate has been with the 
Group for five years, firstly as Group Financial Controller and 
then as Finance Director of the Consumer Fabrics Division. 
Kate is a chartered accountant and her extensive experience 
at the Group, both in Head Office finance functions and as an 
operational finance director equip her ideally for her promotion 
to Group Finance Director.
Following the hygiene disposal, significant changes have been 
made to operational management in the Group. Most notably, 
Carsten Heldmann, previously President of the Consumer 
Fabrics Division, has been named Managing Director of 
Fiberweb T echnical Fabrics, while John Warner continues as 
Managing Director of Fiberweb Geosynthetics and has also 
assumed responsibility for the US-based T ypar housewrap and 
geotextile businesses. With the reduced scale of the Group, 
several central roles have been removed to ensure that the 
Group’s overhead structure is appropriate for its continuing 
business. These changes have been taking place from 
December 2011 and are likely to complete by mid-year 2012.
Prospects
Fiberweb’s strategy of developing and building on profitable, 
differentiated positions in niche industrial and construction 
materials should enable Fiberweb to achieve its medium-term 
financial goals and thereby deliver attractive returns to 
shareholders. The transformation of the Group’s balance sheet 
will allow these developments to be accelerated through 
increased management focus on a more attractive portfolio and 
through an improved ability to invest. Markets for specialty 
fabrics and materials in filtration, construction, medical devices 
and many other areas continue to grow, substituting for traditional 
materials and to improve energy, environmental and financial 
performance for customers. The Group’s prospects of exploiting 
attractive markets are excellent and we are well equipped to see 
the benefits of recent acquisitions, rationalisation and investment 
in technology and assets in 2012 and beyond.
Malcolm Coster 
Chairman
29 February 2012
4    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Key events 
Acquisition of the Boddingtons group of companies.
January
The sale and operating leaseback of the utility plant 
commissioned at Old Hickory, US during 2010.
Successful completion of a rights issue, raising £24 million 
to enable bolt-on acquisitions.
March
Initial commissioning of a new R&D centre and pilot line at 
Old Hickory, US.
September
Acquisition of the Tubex group of companies.
May
December
Completion of a new carded fabric production line at T erno 
d’Isola, Italy.
Significant upgrade of breathable film and nonwoven line at 
Achersleben, Germany. 
The sale of the majority of the Group’s hygiene nonwovens 
business. 
Commissioning of a relocated Tubex tree shelter 
production line at Old Hickory, US.
November 6    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Chief Executive’s Review
During 2011, we focused on improving our financial position, 
with the sale and operating leaseback of a new utility plant 
in the US in March, a rights issue in March to enable bolt-on 
acquisitions and finally the sale of the majority of our hygiene 
business in December. As a result, our gearing of 2.5x 
underlying
3
 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) at the beginning of January has been 
turned into a net cash position at the end of December.
We also completed two bolt-on acquisitions, with Boddingtons 
joining the Group in January 2011 and T ubex in May 2011, 
adding high-margin, specialty, complementary products 
to our existing, more commoditised T erram geotextiles 
business. The result of these activities has been to re-create 
Fiberweb at the end of 2011 as an international group with 
revenues of some £300 million, focused on developing and 
manufacturing specialty industrial and construction materials 
with particular strengths in products for filtration, industrial 
processing, soil and construction engineering, drier sheets 
and several medical areas. We have net cash of around £10 
million after covering all costs associated with the hygiene 
sale and hence enjoy a very strong financial position as we 
navigate the current economic uncertainties and volatility in 
raw material prices and seek to accelerate the development of 
our businesses.
The greater focus within our technologies and product 
offerings following the hygiene sale will assist us in driving 
operational improvement, reducing costs and increasing 
flexibility. 
Financial Performance
The reported Group financial results are significantly impacted 
by the accounting for the hygiene disposal which completed 
at the end of December 2011. These results are explained in 
detail in the Financial Review later in this report. The primary 
focus should be on the results of the continuing business.
Sales in the continuing Group of £297.8 million, up 11%, were 
broadly in–line with expectations, with volume growth of 3% 
including the benefit of acquisitions and a significant impact 
from pricing as rapid raw material cost increases in the first 
half fed through into price increases for Fiberweb products  
in the second half. Underlying operating profit reached  
£10.8 million, representing a return on sales of only 3.6%.  
This was disappointing and marks a temporary break with the 
trend of steady margin improvement seen from 2007 to 2010. 
The primary reasons for the shortfall against our plans were a 
delay in recovering raw material cost increases in our pricing, 
output and sales constraints arising from restructuring projects 
at Pontypool and Berlin and the absence of the raw material 
hedging profits seen in 2009 and 2010.
Operating cash flow at £20.5 million (2010: £37.7 million)  
was impacted by a working capital outflow of £9.8 million 
(2010: £4.3 million).
Return on capital employed, a key measure of the returns 
we are earning on shareholders’ capital, was driven lower 
by the reduced underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations to 5.6%. This is some way below our weighted 
average cost of capital and returning this crucial metric to an 
acceptable level above our estimated 10% long-term cost 
of capital is a key target for the coming period. This will be 
accomplished by improving margins through cost reduction, 
improving pricing and mix and seeking to improve our capital 
efficiency though reductions in working capital and tight 
control of capital expenditure.
For the discontinued hygiene business, sales were £210.8 
million, up 9.0% partly due to the impact of higher raw material 
prices on selling prices but also due to improved utilisation 
on the spunbond line commissioned in Italy during 2009. 
Underlying operating profit of £14.2 million, was up 75.3% due 
to a strong result from the FitesaFiberweb JV , cost reductions 
and yield improvements on several lines. The only area of 
significant weakness within Hygiene was the Chinese airlaid 
business, which continued to be impacted as in 2010, by 
volume weakness from its largest customer.
Retained profit for the year of £8.8 million (2010: £7.2 million) 
included a £1.5 million gain on disposal of the hygiene 
business.
 
Divisional Review
Technical Fabrics
T echnical Fabrics is a new division, created following the 
hygiene disposal from the previous Americas Industrial and 
Europe Industrial sub-divisions plus the retained drier sheet 
business at Old Hickory and the retained hygiene business in 
Europe at our sites at Biesheim, France and T erno d’Isola, Italy. 
T echnical Fabrics is much the larger of our two divisions and 
has five production sites in the USA, Germany, France and 
Italy with around 900 employees. The heart of our competitive 
(3)
 Before restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items.
The transformation of our portfolio and balance sheet during 2011 leaves us well-placed 
to grow our attractive specialty industrial materials businesses, to deliver strong returns 
for shareholders.
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    7  
We completed two bolt-on acquisitions, with Boddingtons 
joining the Group in January and Tubex in May 2011, adding 
high-margin, specialty, complementary products to our 
existing, more commoditised T erram geotextiles business. 8    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
strengths in T echnical Fabrics lies in specialty spunbond and 
conversion technology, such as Reemay nonwoven polyester 
fabrics, T ypar nonwoven polypropylene fabrics, Linopore film/
nonwoven laminates, Agryl, Novagryl and Covertan agricultural 
fabrics, polypropylene meltblown fabrics, and polyethylene 
nonwoven fabrics, carded hygiene and filtration fabrics.
Key events during 2011 included the commissioning of the new 
R&D centre and pilot line at Old Hickory, US, the completion 
of a new, large thermal and air-through bond carded fabric 
production line at T erno d’Isola, Italy and a significant upgrade 
of the breathable film and nonwoven line at Aschersleben, 
Germany. Sales were fairly stable, other than in European 
roofing where the disruption associated with the planned 
closure of the Blowitex site at Königswinter and transfer of 
production to Berlin caused delays to customer shipments and 
higher yield losses. Important steps have been taken in the 
development of new filtration fabrics, new fabrics for medical 
applications and in preparing the launch of a new Climat™ 
branded roofing product range in Europe.
Dr Carsten Heldmann assumed the leadership of the T echnical 
Fabrics Division in November, following the announcement of 
the hygiene sale. Carsten joined the Group in June 2005 as 
Head of Group R&D and following several years in R&D and 
Marketing management, primarily within the hygiene business, 
Carsten successfully led the Hygiene division from 2010 up 
until the disposal.
Geosynthetics
Geosynthetics is a new division, created from the Group’s 
existing UK-based T erram geotextile business, the two 2011 
acquisitions of Boddingtons and T ubex as well as the Group’s 
geotextile and construction businesses in the USA. From major 
sites at Maldon, Essex and Aberdare, South Wales in the UK, 
with around 300 employees, plus production at Old Hickory in 
the US, Geosynthetics now seeks to offer more complete and 
sophisticated solutions for civil engineering, rail engineering, 
drainage, ground stabilisation, landscaping and silviculture in 
the UK, Europe, the USA, Russia and the Middle East.  
The division is still young, but is aggressively moving towards 
solution selling and a more complete product offering in these 
areas.
Key events, other than the acquisitions themselves, include the 
commissioning in November 2011 of a T ubex tree shelter 
production line at Old Hickory, barely five months after T ubex 
was acquired, the ordering of a sophisticated new 
needlepunch production line to be installed at Maldon to 
strengthen the geotextiles offering in the UK, the restructuring 
of sites at Pontypool and Loddon as part of post-acquisition 
integration and the launch of improved synthetic roofing 
underlay products in the US housing market.
Much remains to be done to optimise the performance of this 
new division, with the closure of the final T erram line scheduled 
for mid-2012 following the successful commissioning of the 
needlepunch line at Maldon, strengthening of the sales team 
and new product initiatives in the rail industry. Customer wins in 
the US housing sector for our market-leading T ypar housewrap 
will support sales in this important market as it begins to 
recover after four years of recession, while tree shelter sales 
grew strongly in 2011 and are expected to continue developing 
well in 2012.
Our People
The entire Fiberweb team was challenged by a difficult and 
uncertain year. Restructuring at Pontypool, Maldon and 
Königswinter impacted many people. Around 600 employees 
left the Group together with the hygiene disposal and 
significant overhead cost reductions are now underway to 
reflect the smaller scale of the continuing business.  
In addition, the challenging economic environment also left its 
mark. In spite of these unsettling issues, Fiberweb people 
around the globe demonstrated commitment and 
determination to serve customers and shareholders alike.
The major management development programme –  
Fiberweb xL – launched last year has continued to prepare 
our most talented and committed staff from all functions and 
locations for new and greater challenges within Fiberweb as 
their careers develop. This two year programme should enable 
us to increase the proportion of senior vacancies we can fill 
internally and to increase the overall performance level of our 
senior management cadre.
Another major initiative developed further during 2011 was 
our in-house continuous improvement programme – Q5zero – 
targeting zero accidents, zero defects, zero late deliveries, zero 
inefficiencies and zero non-standard operations.  
More than one hundred people have now been trained in a 
five-module, five-week programme over a one-year period 
and we are beginning to see the benefits in a large number of 
individual improvement projects on our sites.
I would like to thank all Fiberweb employees for their 
commitment and creativity as we create a new Fiberweb as a 
growing and attractive industrial specialty materials business.
Outlook
Fiberweb’s performance is expected to improve significantly in 
2012, benefiting from the absence of the specific operational 
issues seen in 2011, from the increased focus on attractive 
niche, specialty markets and from the benefit of previous 
investment in assets, acquisitions, technology and marketing. 
The economic environment facing us is shifting, with some 
signs of recovery in the US, notably in the housing market, 
while Europe remains uncertain.
We enter 2012 with a strong balance sheet and the ability 
to accelerate our development. Strengthening our core 
businesses in filtration and specialty construction remains a 
priority and we need to consider establishing a meaningful 
presence in attractive emerging markets, which are likely to 
deliver the bulk of the global growth in our markets in the 
coming years. However, in the short-term we will concentrate 
on improving our operational performance, on continuing to 
reduce our overhead costs in line with the current scope of the 
Group and on reducing levels of working capital to drive up 
returns on capital employed. 
Daniel Dayan 
Chief Executive
29 February 2012
Chief Executive’s Review continued 8    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    9  
Upgrading our S3 reicofil line 
S3 line
Christian Bertelmann
Fiberweb Berlin
means we can deliver a seamless 
end-to-end process, starting from 
granules and continuing all the way 
through the production process 
to end up with fully packaged and 
labelled high quality finished goods. 
This increases productivity and 
enables us to maintain high levels 
of product quality, providing us with 
a competitive advantage to better 
serve the current and future needs 
of the European roofing market 
segment.
Our investment 
in the S3 line
“In autumn 2011, we implemented an upgrade of a major spunbond 
line at our Berlin production facility. This included investment in state  
of the art inline printing and converting equipment. The line is 
specifically designed not only 
to prevent changeovers from 
disrupting the process by reducing 
down time, but also to ensure 
specific needs of our customers 
can be met.”  10    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Business Review
Vision and Strategy
Fiberweb has a clear vision and strategy focused on 
using our materials technology and expertise to benefit 
customers. The strategy aims to create and sustain 
value for shareholders through a clear understanding 
of the needs of specialist niche markets and strong 
relationships with our customers. investment in 
production and application development ensures that 
Fiberweb has relevant, versatile and unique solutions to 
the ongoing challenges in these differentiated markets.
OUR VISION T o excel in the intelligent 
application of materials 
technology
OUR MISSION We work with our customers to 
realise the greater potential of 
materials technology applied to 
their businesses
Resolution
™
PRINT MEDIA    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    11  
Powerful, innovative roofing & construction products
Typar
®
Surround
®
EuroT op
®
Linopore
®
10x
Surround SR synthetic roofing 
underlayment is 10 times 
stronger than 30-pound 
asphalt felt for the ultimate 
tear resistance.
Jake Phillips
Business Director, Construction, Fiberweb Geosynthetics
“In the US, steep-slope roofing underlayment is a $770 million business, 
85% of which is saturated organic felt. Surround SR synthetic roofing 
underlayment affords us a great opportunity to create a tipping point 
from felt to a superior solution.” 
Stronger – 10 times stronger than 30-pound asphalt 
felt for the ultimate tear resistance, so it will not blow 
off during installation and it helps eliminate the need for 
costly roof repair. 
Drier – the unique slip-resistant surface is waterproof to 
prevent moisture issues. 
Lighter – up to 10 times lighter than 30-pound asphalt 
felt so it is easy to carry onto a roof. 12    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
The technical fabrics market is diverse with an extremely 
wide range of end applications. Regional penetration, 
competition and potential growth can vary widely depending 
on the product areas and geography concerned.
Within technical fabrics, the nonwovens industry has grown 
steadily over the last three decades as these materials are 
increasingly used as a substitute for woven textiles and as 
products containing nonwovens have gained increasing 
penetration in emerging market areas. T echnological 
advances allow nonwovens to be used in new applications 
by improvements in properties such as strength, uniformity, 
flexibility, durability and permeability.
Markets
During the period under review Fiberweb operated in three 
main markets, namely hygiene, industrial and geosynthetics. 
Hygiene markets continue to exhibit, in general, the overall 
stable medium-term growth that has been seen in the past. 
The long-standing trend to lower basis weights (i.e. lighter 
fabrics) in response to rising raw material costs is expected 
to continue. The hygiene market, where steady 3-5% medium 
term growth is anticipated, is characterised by a 
concentrated and sophisticated customer base. Large 
multinational customers maintain very high standards of 
product quality and performance and expect nothing less 
from their suppliers. 
T echnological developments in the hygiene market towards 
better value products have continued to progress during 
2011 and are expected to be maintained in the medium-term. 
The drive to improve fabric performance at lower weight (i.e. 
with the use of smaller quantities of polymer) continues to be 
the most significant trend. There are also moves amongst 
some hygiene product producers to examine the use of 
sustainable raw materials.
The industrial and geosynthetics markets served by Fiberweb 
are varied and in most cases development has been as 
expected. The most difficult industrial market currently is  
the US residential construction market, with issues that have 
been well publicised. As a result of significant falls in new 
housing starts, market pressures have been considerable in 
housewrap and in construction-related areas of landscape 
fabrics and pool filtration. While measurements of market 
share are difficult, it is notable that Fiberweb experienced 
much lower volume declines than the fall in overall market 
demand as represented by new housing starts. A similar 
demand trend was also observed in European housing 
markets.
The industrial and geosynthetics markets are not only 
fragmented but the level of technical expertise and 
competition varies depending on the application. Key to 
success in these markets is the ability to respond rapidly 
and effectively to customer needs for improving value and 
performance, often at short notice.
Trends
2011 saw further significant volatility in the cost of Fiberweb’s 
most significant raw material, polypropylene. Polypropylene 
prices rose very rapidly in both North America and Europe 
during the first two quarters of the year, with relief only 
apparent mid-year in North America and in the autumn in 
Europe. A long-term trend of increasing oil prices and the 
knock on effect on polypropylene and the Group’s other 
major raw material, polyester, is expected to continue in the 
medium and long-term. We seek to manage this volatile 
situation through contractual pass-through arrangements 
as well as fixed price contracts and financial hedging 
arrangements where appropriate and reasonably priced. 
Hedging arrangements cannot always be put in place 
economically and, in these situations, Fiberweb needs to 
rely on pricing actions to maintain its margins where this 
is possible. In the industrial and geosynthetics markets, 
Fiberweb can in general move prices, subject to the 
competitive environment and agreements with customers, 
Business Review continued
Our Markets, Trends and External Environment  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    13  
Ground and Grass reinforcement Solutions
Boddingtons
®
Defencell
®
T erram
®
Tubex
®
Typar
®
This year we have shipped approximately 
160,000m
2
 of BodPave
®
85 from the Maldon 
plant. This is a 40% increase on last year and 
includes deliveries within the UK and to the 
US, Middle East and Australia.
Manufactured at our Maldon plant from UV 
stabilised 100% recycled HDPE, BodPave
®
85 is 
strong, chemically inert & non-toxic, enabling it  
to provide a durable, safe and sustainable  
eco-friendly surface for trafficked areas.
BodPave
®
85
John Warner
Managing Director, Fiberweb Geosynthetics
“At Fiberweb Geosynthetics we manufacture a range of Ground and 
Grass Reinforcement Solutions.
BodPave
®
85 is our interlocking cellular porous paving system for ground 
reinforcement which can be installed with either a grass or gravel filled surface. 
GrassProtecta
®
 is an improved heavy duty thick 
polythene mesh for reinforcing grassed surfaces 
prone to wear, rutting and smearing. The 
oscillated design of the mesh increases traction 
and improves slip resistance by up to 97% 
compared to traditional extruded meshes.”  14    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
while in the hygiene market, long-term raw material pass-
through contracts are typically in place with major customers 
accounting for around 80% of Fiberweb’s business in this 
sector during 2011. These pass-through contracts typically 
only allow quarterly adjustments to prices. Therefore, 
Fiberweb is typically exposed financially to the impact of at 
least three months’ increases in raw material costs. Another 
key trend impacting the hygiene business is the continued 
growth in emerging markets as the market penetration of 
disposable hygiene products continues to rise.
Following the sale of the majority of the Group’s hygiene 
business at the end of 2011, the Group’s raw material 
exposure has shifted significantly, with polyester now 
accounting for around 30% and polypropylene for around 
60% of raw material purchases, with other fibres accounting 
for most of the remainder.
The long-term growth of technical fabrics in industrial 
applications continues to appear to be secure, despite 
current negative pressures on volumes from the economic 
cycle. Demands for higher water and air quality continue 
to drive growth in filtration and demands for improved 
housing and infrastructure for much of the world’s population 
continue to drive the increased use of nonwovens in 
construction worldwide, both for housing and in the use of 
geotextiles in infrastructure for example.
external environment
The competitive environment of the technical fabrics 
and nonwovens industry is constantly changing, with 
technological innovations and the development of new 
markets and applications. Although Fiberweb had a strong 
position during the period under review with its broad 
product portfolio and global presence, it faced competition 
at various levels depending on the application, emphasising 
the need for continuing investment in research and the 
development of new products. There is a long-term trend 
towards consolidation in the nonwovens industry, as there 
can be advantages from scale, a broader geographic 
presence and a broader technology spread in meeting 
customer demands.
Description of Technical Fabrics business
In North America, Fiberweb operated in a number of areas in 
construction, filtration, landscape, furniture and bedding and 
specialities, with a single, large manufacturing site located in 
Old Hickory, US.
In construction, our major products are in housewrap, 
landscape and geotextile markets. Fiberweb’s Typar™ is the 
second largest brand for housewrap in North America.  
In Canada, Typar is the leading market brand for housewrap.
We are the market leader in pool and spa filtration under our 
strong brand Reemay™. Reemay is recognised by many 
as an industry standard in filtration markets, especially for 
pool and spa filtration and Fiberweb continues to work and 
improve the performance of these products to stay ahead 
of competition. Reemay is also used to make drier sheets 
for the North American consumer market, an attractive niche 
area of application in which Fiberweb has market leading 
technology. We also manufacture high performance products 
for use in the graphic arts industry, such as nil-scratch wipes 
and dampener covers.
In Europe, our T echnical Fabrics business is somewhat less 
developed than in North America. It falls into three main 
segments, namely construction, filtration and technical 
nonwovens and we also enjoy a presence in smaller 
segments for specialist medical fabrics and crop-cover in 
agricultural markets. In Europe, we focus on roofing, filtration, 
agriculture and speciality polyethylene-based fabrics.
In Asia, the group mainly sells small volumes of specialist 
Reemay filtration fabrics and Typar for various construction 
applications.
Business Review continued
Our Markets, Trends and External Environment continued  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    15  
Fiberweb Geosynthetics Defencell floodwall product
There are many historical buildings in 
Smithland. US presidents Polk and T aylor, 
Charles Dickens, Lafayette (1825), and many 
others stayed there. Smithland is located at the 
confluence of the Cumberland and Ohio rivers.
to build
approximately 2,000 metres of wall 1.1 
metres tall. Fiberweb received the order 
at 9:00am and responded quickly to 
have the product in Smithland to start 
building by 6:00pm the same day. The 
wall protected many historical buildings 
in Smithland.
37 hours
Boddingtons
®
Defencell
®
T erram
®
Tubex
®
Typar
®
Arthur Cashin
T echnical Manager, Fiberweb Geosynthetics
“Significant flooding occurred in the mid-west United States in the 
spring of 2011. Fiberweb Geosynthetics deployed the Defencell 
floodwall product to help the residents of Smithland, KY . Working 
shoulder to shoulder with National Guard troops and local residents, 
Fiberweb employees trained people, 
directed equipment, managed crews, 
and became integral parts of the flood 
fight. It was a wonderful experience to 
hear people talking about the miracle 
wall that ‘saved our town’.” 16    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Description of Geosynthetics business
Our Geosynthetics business comprises the T erram™, 
Boddingtons™ and Tubex™ product ranges. Since the 
disposal of our hygiene business our Geosynthetics 
business also incorporates our North American construction 
business.
In the UK, our site in Maldon, Essex produces branded 
geotextiles under the T erram and Boddingtons brands with 
a strong market position in the UK, as well as speciality 
geosynthetics and constructions for a variety of applications, 
including in the rail and defence industries. The business is 
also served by sales offices in Minneapolis in the US and 
Leipzig in Germany. Significant quantities of geosynthetic 
products are exported from the UK to markets in Europe, 
Russia and the Middle East.
At Aberdare in South Wales, a variety of tree shelter products 
are manufactured for sale in silviculture and viticulture 
markets in the UK and Europe. During 2011, production of 
tree shelters commenced at our facility in Old Hickory, US to 
improve access to North American markets.
Description of Hygiene business 
The hygiene business provides nonwoven fabrics to 
major consumer goods companies around the world for 
applications in baby care and feminine hygiene. These are 
produced using two principal methods, namely spunbond 
and airlaid technology.
In North America, Fiberweb produced carded thermal bond 
material which is used principally for extensible applications 
such as ears and side panels in baby diapers and spunbond 
and spunmelt materials as components for diapers and 
feminine care products. During the period under review, 
Fiberweb’s manufacturing sites were located in the US 
in Simpsonville and Green Bay. Fiberweb also owned a 
50% stake in the FitesaFiberweb joint venture which had 
manufacturing sites located in Washougal and Simpsonville 
in the US and in Mexico and Brazil.
In Europe, Fiberweb held a market leading position as a 
result of continuous investment across manufacturing sites 
in France, Germany, Italy and Sweden. At our Chinese facility 
based in Tianjin, we produced advanced airlaid material 
for absorption and/or distribution of liquid for use in the 
manufacture of disposable feminine hygiene products.  
In Asia, Fiberweb was the largest airlaid roll goods producer, 
supplying most of the leading feminine care producers in the 
region as well as the European market.
On 30 December 2011, Fiberweb completed the sale of the 
majority of its hygiene business to Petropar S.A. The sale 
included sites located in Simpsonville and Green Bay in the 
US, Norrköping in Sweden, Trezzano Rosa in Italy, Peine in 
Germany and Tianjin in China. The sale also included 
Fiberweb’s 50% stake in the FitesaFiberweb joint venture 
which owned sites in Washougal and Simpsonville in the US 
as well as in Mexico and Brazil. This sale will allow Fiberweb 
to become a focused leader in certain attractive segments of 
the growing technical fabrics and construction products 
markets, with leading positions in several attractive market 
and technology niches, notably in filtration, construction 
specialties, geosynthetics, agriculture and several medical 
areas. Following the sale, Fiberweb created the new T echnical 
Fabrics Division comprising the current Americas Industrial 
and Europe Industrial units, including the Old Hickory drier 
sheet business and the remaining hygiene sales from 
Fiberweb’s sites in Biesheim, France and T erno d’Isola, Italy.
Business Review continued
Our Markets, Trends and External Environment continued  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    17  
innovative tree protection products
Simon Ewles
Director of Sales, Fiberweb Geosynthetics
forefront
of shelter development since the first 
research into treeshelters came to 
fruition in the early 1980s.
At the
Boddingtons
®
Defencell
®
T erram
®
Tubex
®
Typar
®
“The relocation of our Acorn plant to our manufacturing site at 
Aberdare was completed on time and on budget, with integration 
savings being realised.
From a sales perspective the integration has gone 
well and additional sales of Acorn product to 
traditional Tubex customers is now taking place 
as anticipated; the best example of which was 
the sale of 70,000 Acorn Treeguards to a Tubex 
customer in Lebanon.” 18    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Business Review continued
High speed camera images of 
air turbulence in fibre spinning. 
(top) shows a fibre density map. 
(bottom) shows a smoke tracer 
image of turbulence intensity 
of fibres. The objective of the 
project was to understand fibre 
uniformity via a fundamental 
understanding of fluid dynamics. 
Fibre uniformity relates directly 
to our fabric quality.
Research and development
The primary purpose of Fiberweb research and 
Development is to provide innovation to Fiberweb’s 
customers by optimising the performance of existing 
products and processes and by developing new, more 
cost efficient solutions.
 
For our T echnical Fabrics Division, Fiberweb’s R&D efforts 
continue to focus on spunbond and meltblown platform 
technologies, product innovations, portfolio depth and 
breadth, new markets and manufacturing processes.  
Recent developments include the following:
>
The creation of a new portfolio in synthetic 
roof underlayment. It includes a new 
Surround SR™ roofing product and a new 
premium roofwrap.
>
The commercialisation of a new pool and 
spa media.
>
The creation of a highly uniformed 
Reemay (2 – 5x) product with properties 
suitable for a platform of liquid filtration 
media applications.
>
The development of a new  
FFP1-3 class respiratory mask media 
range offering extra low breathing 
resistance to increase comfort for the end 
user.
>
The development of a new F7-F9 
class HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, Air 
Conditioning) media range complying with 
the new European Standard EN779:2011.
On the research front, we are evaluating nanofibers, 
modelling filtration efficiency and employing computational 
fluid dynamics to advance our process innovation.
In our hygiene businesses, focus was given to developing 
innovative nonwovens with better softness and improved 
surface, extensibility, strength and absorbency properties, 
which, in addition to sustainability, are the key attributes that 
our hygiene customers are requesting. Recent developments 
include the following:
>
Line optimisation and waste reduction 
– rising raw material costs and strong 
competitive pressure have led to several 
activities focussed around operational 
improvements. A global operations 
improvement team has been formed with the 
aim of implementing several programmes in 
2012 targeted towards waste reduction and 
line operational efficiency. 
>
Softness – new polypropylene based resin 
blends consisting of technically advanced 
composites of special copolymers and 
melt additives which provide enhanced 
drape and feel. In addition we have 
designed a new spunbond process 
that provides nonwovens from crimped 
filaments creating a pleasant bulk and 
“cotton-like” touch.
>
Bico fibres – new bi-component products 
based on exclusive composites of resins 
and advanced modifiers which provide 
improved softness and permanent 
hydrophilic properties.  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    19  
building powerful customer relationships through advanced r&D
Horizon R&D centre
We are developing 
ultra uniform media for 
high end filtration.
Our team works on analytical 
chemistry to understand 
material properties for reverse 
engineering, competitive 
analysis and trial analyses.
Optimising  
products and 
processes
Dr. Edward Chan
Vice President – Global R&D, T echnical Fabrics
“Fiberweb’s investment in the new research and development 
centre is very substantial. It clearly signifies to our customers and 
shareholders that growth through innovation is a core strategy.
From a capability perspective, the centre mirrors our 
philosophy of driving value-added growth. In addition to the 
state of the art spunbond line, downstream coating,  
laminating and finishing equipment afford our scientists 
and customers the opportunity to explore the edge of 
innovation and solutions development. The application labs in 
filtration and building products will be added to complement 
customers’ evaluations. The centre is truly unique and a point 
of differentiation for our business.”
Dr. Greg Farell, Research Fellow,  
running a trial on our Horizon pilot line. 20    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Business Review continued
Research and development continued
Whereas R&D focuses on upstream product and process 
development and important new platform technologies, 
T echnical Services (“TS”) provides local technical support 
to our customers. Being close to customers and their needs 
enables us to anticipate new market trends and is a key 
element of this function. The R&D and TS Departments work 
closely together and responsibility for these aspects of product 
and process development is co-ordinated globally between 
the respective departments in Europe, the US and Asia.
Overall, Fiberweb continues to invest significantly in R&D 
to maintain its leading market positions as is shown by our 
major investment in our R&D Centre at our Old Hickory, 
T ennessee plant. This pilot facility will be our Centre of 
Applications Excellence and Customer Innovation. In addition 
to the state of the art area bonded nonwoven machine,  
we are upgrading a coex extrusion coating line and a 
composite lamination line. T o complement the converting 
capability, advanced downstream equipment to simulate 
customer applications will be acquired, along with new 
analytical instrumentation. A grand opening of the centre is 
scheduled for the first half of 2012.
>
Dryness – new durable hydrophilic spin 
finishes which resist multiple wetting and 
offer improved dryness in diaper top 
sheets and inner layers.
>
Extensibility – significant progress has 
been made towards the qualification of 
proprietary, highly extensible spunbond 
nonwovens.
>
Light weight and high strength – an 
improved spinning process which enables 
the spinning of finer fibres with improved 
strength in order to produce a lower 
weight fabric.
>
Airlaid products – several new airlaid 
products were launched in 2011, such 
as, an ultra thin absorbent core, super 
absorbing fibres that provide higher 
acquisition speeds, zero spillage and near 
100% homogeneous distribution, and a 
hybrid airlaid core comprising a synthetic 
acquisition layer.
>
Sustainability – investigations into new 
sustainable raw materials have become 
more important for the Company in order 
to develop green nonwoven products 
with smaller carbon footprints including 
biodegradable products which are more 
environmentally friendly.
>
International research collaboration – a 
long-term collaboration and partnership 
with the University of Cambridge has been 
established by funding a PhD project in 
order to investigate the Reicofil process.  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    21  
innovative medical products
Sliding sheets
Gowns
Masks
Universal sets
Medical suits
Ostomy bags
Blood filters
Drapes
This new material
has a low friction rate and offers other unique 
properties for a nonwoven material. The final 
product is easy to use and since it is patient 
specific and disposed of after use, the risk of 
spreading infections between patients is avoided. 
This has been a win-win collaboration which has 
created a new product platform for Fiberweb.
Stéphane Simon
Business Director Europe, T echnical Nonwovens & Medical
“In the last quarter of 2011, Fiberweb launched a new  
bi-component, flat calendered material for a patient  
transfer application in the medical field.
Four years of product and production development 
together with a partner, who is a worldwide leader 
and specialist in patient transfers, has resulted in 
a new product based on a new nonwoven solution. 
Our close cooperation with our partner allowed us 
to overcome the challenges of meeting specific 
technical requirements and market needs.” The results of the exhibition 
exceeded our expectations in 
terms of traffic and high quality 
business discussions with both 
existing and new customers as 
well as with machinery and raw 
material suppliers.
22    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Business Review continued
Index11
This year over 500 companies 
exhibited and more than 
12,000 people attended from 
around the world.
Fiberweb innovation - creating a material difference
Geneva
“Every three years the players in the nonwovens industry, from 
machinery and raw material suppliers to finished products 
convertors, gather in Geneva Switzerland for INDEX, the world’s 
leading nonwovens exhibition. 
The theme for Fiberweb’s exhibit was “Fiberweb innovation - 
creating a material difference”. The exhibit design delivered 
this message through the extensive use of technology and 
interactive displays to communicate, in an innovative way, 
the value that our Industrial and Hygiene products and 
our Research and Development capabilities bring to our 
customers.” 
Raymond A. Dunleavy
Former Marketing Director, Fiberweb Consumer Fabrics  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    23  
Financial Review
2011
Continuing Operations   Technical  Unallocated 
    Fabrics Geosynthetics Corporate Total
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
External sales by origin   234.5 63.3 – 297.8
Underlying* operating profit   20.7 (3.6) (6.3) 10.8
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and  
other non-recurring items  1.2 (4.7) 1.4 (2.1)
Segment result from continuing operations  21.9 (8.3) (4.9) 8.7
Underlying* operating profit margin  8.8% (5.7)% – 3.6%
Capital additions (cash outlay)   16.0 2.2 0.1 18.3
Depreciation & amortisation   10.8 0.7 0.8 12.3
2010 (restated)
Continuing Operations   T echnical  Unallocated  
    Fabrics Geosynthetics Corporate Total
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
External sales by origin   218.7 50.5 – 269.2
Underlying* operating profit   30.1 (1.5) (7.7) 20.9
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and  
other non-recurring items  0.1 (1.0) (2.7) (3.6)
Segment result from continuing operations  30.2 (2.5) (10.4) 17.3
Underlying* operating profit margin   13.8% (3.0)% – 7.8%
Capital additions (cash outlay)   23.8** 0.4 0.3 24.5
Depreciation & amortisation   10.5 0.1 0.6 11.2
*Underlying results are stated before restructuring costs, the amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items as set 
out in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
** Including £16 million for the Old Hickory Utility plant, subsequently the subject of a sale and operating leaseback in February 2011.
Segment results are based on the classification of reporting entities according to the principal market served by each operational entity. 
The prior year results have been restated to show the results of the  
disposed Hygiene business as a discontinued operation. Following the disposal,  
Fiberweb has revised its segmental structure to create two new segments –  
Technical Fabrics and Geosynthetics.
Daniel Abrams
Chief Financial Officer 24    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
review of results
The prior year results have been restated to show the 
results of the disposed Hygiene business as a discontinued 
operation. Following the disposal, Fiberweb has revised its 
segmental structure to create two new segments:
q 	 T echnical Fabrics 
q 	 Geosynthetics
The T echnical Fabrics division includes revenues of £101.3 
million (2010: £87.1 million) in respect of retained businesses 
formerly included within the Group’s Hygiene division.
Revenue
 
Revenue – continuing operations increased by 11%
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 11% to 
£297.8 million (2010: £269.2 million). At constant currency 
sales increased £30.9 million (12%) above the prior year.  
This reflects the 3% volume increase and the impact on 
prices of the higher raw material prices in the first half.
The T echnical Fabrics division experienced an overall volume 
increase of 1%. Volumes in Europe were flat, with a year-on-
year increase in the US of 2% primarily driven by Drier Sheet. 
In revenue terms, total division sales increased by 7% overall 
to £234.5 million. 
Revenue – Technical Fabrics increased by 7%
Within Geosynthetics, volumes increased 15% year on 
year reflecting the contribution from the Boddingtons and 
Tubex acquisitions during the year. Like-for-like sales, after 
adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, reduced by 13% to 
£43.9 million, primarily due to continued weakness in the 
US construction market. Boddingtons contributed sales of 
£16.1 million and Tubex contributed sales of £3.3 million post 
acquisition. 
Revenue – Geosynthetics increased by 25%
Within discontinued operations, Hygiene volumes reduced 
by 1% compared to 2010, whilst sales were up by 9% 
reflecting higher raw material prices. Hygiene sales revenues 
are impacted by the contractual pass through arrangements 
for raw material prices, which distorts the relationship with 
underlying trading volumes. On a constant currency basis, 
sales of £210.8 million were 6% higher than the prior year. 
Revenue – discontinued operations increased by 9%
Underlying Operating Profit
Underlying Operating Profit reduced to £10.8 million
Underlying operating profit of £10.8 million in the continuing 
group was disappointing against £20.9 million in the prior 
year. Underlying margins fell from 7.8% in 2010 to 3.6% 
in 2011. In the first half of 2011, the underlying margin 
was 5.0% (2010: 9.0%) and was impacted by a delay in 
recovering the sharp raw material cost increases in our 
pricing as well as the operational issues in Pontypool. In the 
second half, the underlying margin fell to 2.2% (2010: 6.4%) 
as a result of volume weakness in Southern Europe and US 
construction markets, and also the impact of the integration 
activities in Berlin following the closure of the Königswinter 
site, where delays in commissioning a new line disrupted 
order fulfilment. In addition, the benefits arising from raw 
material hedging in 2010 were not repeated, particularly in 
the second half of 2011 when a loss of £1.5 million arose on 
hedging compared to a profit of £5.4 million in the full year  
in 2010.
Technical Fabrics margins reduced to 8.8%
T echnical Fabrics underlying margins reduced from 13.8%  
to 8.8% reflecting the operational issues in Berlin in the 
second half and increased raw material prices at the start 
of the year which were not adequately recovered in selling 
prices. Underlying margins reduced to 5.8% in the second 
half compared to 11.6% in the first half and 13.8% in the 
second half of 2010, largely due to the output and yield 
problems suffered in Berlin together with a second half 
hedging loss of £1.5 million. Berlin operations are now 
substantially recovering, and optimal yields and customer 
service are expected to be re-established through the first 
half of 2012.
Geosynthetics margins reduced to (5.7)%
Geosynthetics underlying margins reduced to (5.7)% in 
2011 from (3.0)% in 2010. Underlying margins improved 
from (11.7)% in the first half to (0.2)% in the second half 
reflecting the resolution of the first half operational issues 
at T erram which affected pricing and output and the impact 
of price increases. Underlying operating margins in the 
acquired Boddingtons and Tubex businesses are healthy 
and in line with expectations. T otal divisional margins were 
adversely impacted by the ongoing weak demand in the US 
construction markets and the consequent impact of surplus 
capacity on overhead recovery. 
2011  £297.8m
2010  £269.2m
2011  £234.5m
2010  £218.7m
2011  £63.3m
2010  £50.5m
2011  (5.7)%
2010  (3.0)%
2011  £210.8m
2010  £194.0m
2011  £10.8m
2010  £20.9m
2011  8.8%
2010  13.8%
Business Review continued
Financial Review continued  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    25  
Within discontinued operations, the FitesaFiberweb joint 
venture continued to trade strongly. In Hygiene, the sharp 
increase in raw material prices in the first half of 2011 
coupled with the contractual lag in pass-through impacted 
margins in the first half, although there was some mitigation 
from operational improvements. There was a strong 
performance in the second half as a result of the contractual 
pass-through and decreasing raw material costs. 
Raw Materials
Raw material costs are a significant cost component 
representing approximately 53% of Group continuing revenues 
in 2011. They are largely dictated by external factors including 
the oil price, from which propylene and polypropylene are 
derived, as well as demand and capacity issues at various 
points along the petrochemical supply chain. 
Polypropylene prices increased sharply by about 18% in the 
first half of the year, and then declined and stabilised during 
the second half of 2011 resulting in an overall decrease of 
circa 6% across the year. The Group actively manages the 
volatility caused by movement in raw material prices with 
hedging transactions. The impact of these arrangements was 
a loss of £0.9 million in 2011 (2010: a gain of £5.4 million), with 
a small profit in the first half offset by losses of £1.5 million in 
the second half of the year. In 2011, the net adverse impact of 
raw material price increases on the total group after hedging 
and contractual pass-through was £3.8 million.
Historically some 50% of Group revenues were subject to 
contractual pass-through arrangements, comprising the 
majority of Hygiene business revenues. There are more limited 
contractual pass-through arrangements in the T echnical 
Fabrics and Geosynthetics segments and raw material price 
risk is addressed through hedging activities and pricing 
activities with customers and on occasion, hedging activities.
In the future, approximately 40% of the Group’s revenues 
(primarily the retained hygiene businesses) will remain 
subject to contractual pass-through, with the balance of 
industrial volumes dependent on negotiated pricing action to 
recover raw material volatility. The Group’s raw material mix is 
now less dependent on polypropylene than in the past, with 
polyester playing a relatively more important role than before.
Restructuring Costs, Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles 
and other Non-Recurring Items
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
non-recurring items for continuing operations totalled £2.1 
million (2010: £3.6 million). Restructuring costs of £7.2 million 
arose primarily from the integration of the acquired Boddingtons 
and T ubex businesses and the transfer of production from the 
Königswinter site in Germany to Berlin, together with costs 
incurred to reflect the smaller scope and sale of the business as 
a result of the Hygiene disposal. These costs were partially 
compensated by a gain of £2.6 million (2010: £0.6 million) on 
the disposal of previously impaired assets from our Korma site 
in Italy following its closure.
Within cost of sales, impairment charges of £1.6 million 
(2010: £Nil) were recognised relating to some obsolete 
equipment in Italy and assets in Geosynthetics no longer 
required as a result of the transfer of production to Maldon. 
£0.4 million of additional costs were incurred on the disposal 
of Old Hickory utility plant. In 2010, a charge of £0.6 million 
was recorded on the transfer of the Old Hickory utility plant as 
held for sale to reflect fair value less costs to sell.  
The Group recognised losses of £0.7 million on the ineffective 
portion of the mark-to-market valuation adjustment in respect 
of polypropylene hedges (2010: gains of £0.7 million). 
Within administrative expenses, a curtailment gain and 
immediate recognition of past service cost credit of £6.4 
million within continuing operations, with a further gain of 
£2.0 million in discontinued operations, arose following 
changes made to benefits under our US post retirement 
medical benefit plan. £0.3 million of transaction costs and 
related professional fees were incurred primarily associated 
with the acquisition of Boddingtons and Tubex (2010: £3.7 
million). In addition, a charge of £0.3 million arose on the 
impairment of the Group’s investment in Cordustex (Pty) 
Limited. The amortisation of acquisition related intangible 
assets was £0.6 million (2010: £Nil).
Within discontinued operations, non-recurring costs of £2.0 
million were incurred. An impairment charge of £3.0 million 
was recognised following the decision to close the Fiberweb 
T echnical NonWovens business in China. Restructuring costs 
of £1.7 million were incurred across the business. This was 
offset by the post retirement medical plan changes of £2.0 
million referred to above and £0.7 million of gains on the sale 
of land in Simpsonville, US and Peine, Germany.
Acquisitions
The acquisition of the Boddingtons group of companies was 
successfully completed on 6 January 2011. The Tubex group 
of companies was acquired on 17 May 2011. The integration 
of these companies into the Geosynthetics segment is 
progressing well and the operations are performing in line 
with expectations. A new needlepunch geotextile production 
line in Maldon is expected to be operational in the first half 
of 2012, which will allow the final closure of the old T erram 
facility in Pontypool and complete the post-acquisition 
integration programme.
 2011  2010
 £’m £’m
Continuing operations
Cost of sales (2.7) 0.1
Administrative expenses 5.2 (3.7) 
Other operating income – – 
Restructuring costs (4.6) 0.6
Share of results of associates and  
joint ventures – (0.6)
Continuing operations – Total  (2.1)  (3.6)
Discontinued operations  (2.0)  (2.9) 26    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Disposal of the Hygiene Business
The disposal of the Hygiene business completed on 30 
December 2011 for a total consideration of $286 million 
(including the issue of a 6% Vendor Loan Note of $26 
million). Disposal costs of £8.8 million included transaction 
costs of £6.5 million, and £1.8 million accelerated write-down 
of the prepaid facility fees in connection with the repayment 
of the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) in January 
2012. Disposal costs also include other finance costs relating 
to the break fees on early repayment of the RCF and the 
crystallisation of £1.2 million on the mark-to-market of interest 
rate swaps held against the RCF debt which were settled 
in January 2012 offset by the immediate recognition of past 
service costs on the post retirement medical benefit scheme 
of £0.8 million as a result of the disposal. 
Net Cash
Net Cash of £22.0 million
Following the disposal of the Hygiene business, the Group 
had net cash of £22.0 million at the year end (2010: net debt 
of £151.2 million). This is expected to reduce to around £10 
million after payment of disposal transaction costs and related 
restructuring costs. The Group had previously set a target of 
reducing net debt to a maximum of two times EBITDA over the 
medium term. This has now been achieved. The proceeds of 
the disposal were used to pay down the outstanding amounts 
due under the RCF at the beginning of January 2012. As a 
result of this repayment, the Group’s interest rate swaps were 
terminated. Following the disposal of the Hygiene Business on 
30 December 2011, the loan facility was reduced to £50 million 
comprising multi-currency facilities of €30 million and US$40 
million. Other terms remain unchanged.
As part of the proceeds for the disposal of the Hygiene 
business, the Group issued a one-year Vendor Loan Note to 
Petropar for $26 million at a coupon rate of 6% payable on 
redemption on 30 December 2012.
Interest Charge and Borrowings 
Net finance costs for continuing operations were £15.9 million 
(2010: £14.8 million). The higher costs reflect a full year of the 
new RCF facility established in July 2010 which has a higher 
margin than the previous facility. No allocation of interest 
charges relating to the Group’s RCF has been made to 
discontinued operations on the basis that debt and these 
costs are managed on a group basis and cannot meaningfully 
be directly allocated. Following the repayment of the 
outstanding balances under the RCF with the proceeds of the 
Hygiene disposal, net finance costs are expected to be 
significantly reduced in future. The most material elements of 
the ongoing interest charge will be non-cash pension interest 
on the Group’s pension deficit, offset in 2012 by the interest to 
be received on the Vendor Loan Note.
Profit Before Tax
Underlying loss before tax from continuing operations
After net finance costs of £15.9 million (2010: £14.8 million), 
Fiberweb generated an underlying loss before tax from 
continuing operations of £5.1 million (2010: £6.1 million profit). 
Profit before tax for discontinued operations was £11.7 million 
excluding the gain on disposal (2010: £4.6 million). The gain 
on disposal before tax was £8.9 million.
Taxation
The Group recorded a net tax credit for the year on 
underlying profits from continuing operations of £3.8 million 
(2010: £0.1 million charge). The Group recognised a net 
credit of £3.0 million (2010: £3.6 million) in respect of the final 
recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of historic US 
losses, partial recognition of deferred tax assets on UK and 
Italian tax losses and other timing differences. The Group 
now has full recognition of the deferred tax assets in the US 
following the fourth profitable year in the US since demerger, 
with forecast profitability now underpinning the Group’s 
ability to benefit from brought forward tax losses as we move 
ahead. In addition, deferred tax assets have been partially 
recognised on historic UK and Italian losses as a result of 
forecast future profitability.
Excluding the deferred tax credits, the underlying tax  
credit was £0.8 million (2010: £3.7 million charge), 
representing an underlying effective tax rate of 15.7% (2010: 
60.7%). The high rate in 2010 reflected the fact that no benefit 
was recognised on UK tax losses in the year. A tax charge of 
£7.4 million arose on the disposal of the hygiene business.
Business Review continued
Financial Review continued
  £’m
Cash proceeds  167.3
Vendor Loan Note  16.7
Net assets disposed  (199.2) 
Disposal costs, including the swap break 
costs and accelerated facility fee amortisation (8.8)
Tax arising on disposal  (7.4)
Recycling of foreign exchange gains   32.9
Gain on disposal   1.5
2011  £(5.1)m
2010  £6.1m
2011  £22.0m
2010  £(151.2)m 26    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    27  
Review of Financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We measure the achievement of our objectives through the use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of 
quantitative indicators, termed Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”). The seven KPIs listed below represent factors by reference 
to which the development, performance or position of the business can be measured effectively.
We focus primarily on financial KPIs to measure progress in achieving the financial turnaround. 
Financial KPIs Definition/ 
Description
Purpose 2011 Performance 2010 Performance
(restated)
Operating margins Underlying operating 
profit from continuing 
businesses/sales from 
continuing businesses
Measure progress in 
improving returns in an 
underperforming 
business
3.6% 7.8%
earnings growth 
(adjusted continuing 
ePS)
Increase in underlying 
earnings
Measure success in 
improving shareholder 
returns
(118)% 4.5%
return on capital 
employed %
LTM underlying 
operating profit from 
continuing businesses/
total fixed assets and 
working capital
Measure success in 
improving returns on 
our assets
5.6% 13.7%
revenue growth Third party sales 
growth from continuing
operations
Measure growth in 
strategically important 
business
10.6% 5.9%
Trade working 
Capital as a 
percentage of 
annualised sales
Net inventories, trade 
receivables and trade 
payables/continuing 
annualised sales 
adjusted for other 
disposals
Generating cash 
available for 
reinvestment or 
distribution
15.4% 13.1%
Operating cash flow Net cash flows from 
operating activities 
before investing and 
financing activities
Generating cash 
available for 
reinvestment or 
distribution
£20.5 million £37.7 million
Non-financial KPI
recordable injury 
rates (rir)
Number of recordable 
injuries/number of 
hours worked x 
200,000
Measure our success 
in ensuring a safe 
working environment
1.7 1.3 28    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Underlying operating margins in the continuing group have 
reduced to 3.6% from 7.8% last year reflecting the impact of 
the operational issues at Berlin and Pontypool as a result of 
the restructuring initiatives. 
Earnings growth was negative as a result of the operational 
issues at Pontypool and Berlin, with continuing adjusted 
EPS at (0.8) pence per share (2010: 4.5 pence per share). 
Excluding the deferred tax credit of £3.0 million (2010: £3.6 
million) in respect of historic tax losses, the adjusted loss  
per share was 2.6 pence (2010: earnings per share 1.8 
pence). 
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) reduced from 13.7% to 
5.6% a result of the reduction in operating profit. ROCE, defined 
as underlying operating profit from continuing business in the 
last 12 months against total fixed assets and working capital, is 
considered an appropriate measure against which to monitor 
the Group’s improving performance.
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 10.6%. 
This reflects the 3% increase in volumes and the higher raw 
material prices during the year, as well as the impact of the 
Boddingtons and Tubex acquisitions (£19.4 million). In the 
prior year, revenue from continuing operations increased by 
5.9%. 
An important KPI in managing the operating cash of 
the business is trading working capital expressed as a 
percentage of annualised sales, which, at the year end 
was 15.4% (2010: 13.1%). The Group continues to target 
reductions in working capital as a percentage of revenue. 
Operating cash flow, a critical measure, was £20.5 million 
(2010: £37.7 million). This reflects a working capital increase 
of £9.8 million (2010: £4.3 million). 
Cash Flow, Net Debt and Liquidity 
Net cash from operating activities was £20.5 million (2010: 
£37.7 million). The net cash inflow in the year was £156.2 
million (2010: £2.6 million) reflecting the net proceeds 
of the Hygiene disposal offset by £23.4 million of capital 
expenditure (2010: £33.2 million), £9.4 million of net interest 
payments (2010: £8.0 million) and shareholder dividends of 
£6.0 million (2010: £5.2 million). 
Cash from operating activities was impacted by a working 
capital outflow of £9.8 million (2010: £4.3 million working capital 
outflow). Other adjustments to operating cashflow include 
pension contributions of £4.9 million (2010: £4.3 million), 
including a one off contribution of £0.6 million in the US, and 
tax payments of £3.4 million (2010: £0.3 million).
Capital investment of £23.4 million includes £18.3 million in 
the continuing group (2010: £33.2 million; £25.2 million in 
the continuing group) and continues to secure competitive 
manufacturing and product development infrastructure for 
the future. The major capital projects during 2011 were the 
significant upgrade of the breathable film and nonwoven 
line at Aschersleben, Germany; a new thermal and air-
through bond carded fabric production line at T erno d’Isola, 
Italy; a new roofing membrane line in Berlin and additional 
investment at the new R&D centre in the US. The Old Hickory 
utility plant, which was successfully commissioned in August 
2010, was sold and leased back under an operating lease in 
March 2011. 
The rights issue generated net cash proceeds of £23.8 
million. In addition, net proceeds of £18.3 million were 
received on the sale and operating lease back of the Old 
Hickory utility plant, land at the Simpsonville and Peine sites, 
the land and buildings at Königswinter in Germany following 
the transfer of the business to Berlin and on the disposal 
of previously impaired assets from our Korma site in Italy 
following its closure.
Dividends of £1.6 million were received from the 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture prior to its disposal.
The net cash outflow on the acquisitions of Boddingtons and 
T ubex was £7.9 million (2010: £Nil). The net cash inflow on 
the disposal of the Hygiene business in the year was £161.2 
million. The majority of the £8.8 million related costs, including 
the swap termination costs, will be paid in 2012.
Treasury 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its interest exposure and 
entered into interest rate hedges for its exposure to both US 
Dollar and Euro floating interest rates under its loan facility 
(“RCF”). During the year, these interest hedges accounted 
for more than 70% of the debt under the RCF . Following 
the repayment of the RCF debt with the proceeds from the 
Hygiene business disposal, the swaps were terminated and 
settled in January 2012.
During the year, the RCF debt was used as a translation 
hedge against net operating assets. There is limited 
transactional exposure as there is relatively little trading 
across currency borders. The bulk of raw material sourcing 
and other purchases are in the currency of operation, and 
the total volume of the Group’s business which is affected by 
relative currency movements is less than 10% of its turnover. 
It is the Group’s policy to hedge those exposures which are 
material for a period of up to 12 months, using a specified 
range of financial instruments. 
Business Review continued
Financial Review continued 28    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    29  
During the year, the Group sought to match the same 
proportional allocation between US Dollar, Euro and Swedish 
Krona of debt drawn down under the RCF as applies 
between the net operating assets and EBITDA of the trading 
subsidiaries denominated in similar trading currencies. 
Following the disposal of the Hygiene business, the Group is 
in a net cash position and no longer has Swedish Krona 
assets and therefore any future drawdowns are likely to be in 
US Dollar or Euro.
Table of Exchange Rates 
  2011 2010
USD Average 1.60 1.55
 Year end 1.55 1.57
Euro Average 1.15 1.17
 Year end 1.20 1.17
Credit Risk
The Group has a history of limited bad debts and it is  
believed its major customers are of good credit quality.  
Credit insurance is used in most markets. However, the 
inevitable consequence of the recent recessionary 
environment means that the Group will increasingly assume 
balance sheet risk for some trading customers for whom credit 
insurance is either restricted or unavailable. The Group adopts 
a prudent policy for reviewing and advancing credit and for 
ensuring adequate provision for bad debts. 
Shareholder Fund Movements
The Group has equity of £178.8 million (2010: £178.6 
million). Of these reserves, £27.9 million (2010: £76.2 million) 
are distributable reserves. The reduction in distributable 
reserves is a result of the disposal of the Hygiene business.
Retirement Benefits
The major retirement benefits and pension schemes are now 
defined contribution schemes. The Group retains responsibility 
for the scheme deficit in the Simpsonville and Washougal 
pension schemes in the US which are now frozen. During the 
year, changes were made to the Group’s post retirement 
medical benefits schemes in the US resulting in a curtailment 
gain of £0.6 million and immediate recognition of past service 
cost gains of £5.8 million in continuing operations.
The net pension liability is calculated by the Group’s actuaries, 
and is based on the fair value of the schemes’ assets and the 
present value of the schemes’ liabilities. This net liability 
reduced by £9.0 million during the year to £26.5 million (2010: 
£35.5 million), with total curtailment gains and past service 
credit recognition of £9.3 million offsetting actuarial losses of 
£9.3 million incurred primarily as a result of changes in the 
long-term discount rates applied to the US obligations. 
Liabilities of £5.9 million were disposed as part of the disposal 
of the Hygiene business comprising the Simpsonville post 
retirement medical benefit scheme and the defined benefit 
schemes in Corovin and Fiberweb Italy. Contributions paid 
totalled £4.9 million (2010: £4.3 million). Non-cash net interest 
on pension liabilities was £1.4 million (2010: £1.7 million). 
Principal Accounting Policies
The accounting policies used to prepare the Consolidated 
Financial Statements are set out in detail in note 2 on pages 
60 to 65.
Principal Risks & Uncertainties 
The following are the most significant risks identified by the 
Board and management:
1. Raw material costs
Raw materials represent the single most important input for 
the Group’s production, representing approximately 53% of 
sales in 2011. Although there are a variety of raw materials 
used by the Group, the key raw materials are polypropylene 
and polyester. The prices of polypropylene and polyester are 
volatile and depend primarily on the price of crude oil and 
monomer and polymer manufacturing capacity and demand. 
There is therefore a material exposure to movements in raw 
material prices. Significant increases in raw material prices 
that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s results and financial condition.
Historically, increases in the price of polypropylene in 
particular have put pressure on the Group’s margins. Prior to 
the disposal of the Hygiene business, the Group was subject 
to contractual pass-through arrangements on approximately 
50% of revenues whereby polypropylene price increases or 
decreases are passed on to its customers. These pass-
through arrangements were generally subject to a time lag of 
up to three months. 
There are more limited contractual pass-through arrangements 
in the T echnical Fabrics and Geosynthetics segments, with 
approximately 40% of the Group’s continuing revenues 
remaining subject to contractual pass through protection.  
As a result, the Group actively manages the volatility caused 
by movement in raw material prices with hedging transactions 
and through strategic alliances with polypropylene producers.
2. Customer and supplier dependency
Historically, across certain markets in which the Group 
operates there was a high degree of dependency on 
maintaining good relationships with a relatively small number  30    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
of key customers. The failure of the Group and its key 
customers to renew contracts could result in a significant 
reduction in the demand for its products. This was 
particularly the case for Procter & Gamble which, through a 
large number of different contracts and purchasing 
arrangements of varying durations, accounted for 
approximately 23% of total sales in 2011. In terms of overall 
concentration, the Group’s top ten customers accounted for 
47% of total sales in 2011. Following the Hygiene disposal, 
Petropar SA will be both a key customer and supplier to the 
Group. The failure of one or more of these key customers 
could therefore have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s reputation, business, results of operations and 
overall financial condition. 
The Group has procedures in place to monitor and mitigate 
this risk and, historically, has been generally successful in 
agreeing new contracts with key customers or extending 
existing contracts. Following the disposal of the Hygiene 
business, Fiberweb’s concentration of customers has reduced 
and Proctor & Gamble represents 11% of the continuing 
group sales. The top 10 customers of the continuing group 
represented only 32% of continuing sales in 2011.
Similar dependency arises in respect of maintaining regular 
supplies of polypropylene and other resins and fibres.  
The Group is reliant on a small number of critical suppliers in 
the global market. Given the limited alternative suppliers, a 
disruption in the supply chain could lead to the Group being 
unable to satisfy the needs of its customers. The failure of  
one or more of the Group’s key suppliers could therefore 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s reputation, 
business, results of operations and overall financial condition. 
The Group seeks to mitigate this risk through diversity of 
supply and by negotiating Group wide contracts.
3. Economics, market and trading conditions
Group sales, expenses and operating results could vary 
significantly from period to period as a result of a variety 
of factors, some of which are outside the Group’s control. 
These factors include general economic conditions, 
conditions specific to the market and conditions specific 
to the Group. A negative change in economic conditions 
in the Group’s customer markets, including, for example, 
a downturn in the Canadian housing market, deterioration 
in consumer confidence or new products and processes 
entering the Group’s market place, could adversely impact 
the Group’s business. 
In addition, significant increases in energy costs, the cost of 
transport and distribution and employment costs in the 
locations where the Group’s manufacturing sites are based 
could adversely impact the profitability of the Group. 
Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates 
can have a material impact on the Group’s business, results 
of operations and overall financial position. The Group 
operates globally, with the majority of its revenues earned 
outside the UK and with significant investments around the 
world. As a result, the Group is subject to currency 
translation risk due to movements between various 
currencies (mainly the US Dollar and the Euro) and its 
reporting currency, Sterling. In order to reduce the effect of 
foreign exchange movements on its reported earnings, the 
Group borrows, where commercially appropriate, in the 
currencies of its operations, thus creating a natural hedge for 
a proportion of its balance sheet. The Group also enters into 
derivative financial instruments in currencies that partially 
hedge its net investment values. The Group does not 
undertake speculative treasury transactions.
As a result of the current economic uncertainties facing a 
number of countries around the world, there has been a 
change in the risk profile. An example is where credit 
insurance coverage has been withdrawn in certain countries. 
The outcome of the recent events remains uncertain.  
The austerity measures are likely to result in changes in 
growth rates and demand for products in those countries. 
These conditions may give rise to delays or defaults on 
contracts with customers based in countries experiencing 
difficulties and may affect the expectation of future business 
volumes and margins.
4. Financial covenants
The Group has financial covenants relating to its main source of 
long-term funding. This risk has materially reduced following the 
repayment of the debt facility following the disposal of the 
hygiene business. The Group expects to comply with these 
covenants. In the event that forecast profitability is not achieved, 
the continued need to comply with these covenants could 
restrict the operational flexibility and management decisions of 
the Group. There is also a risk that the Group’s long-term 
funding would need to be renegotiated with its debt-providers to 
ensure the continued operations of the Group and there could 
be no guarantee that such a renegotiation would be possible on 
commercially acceptable terms or that the Group would be able 
to successfully re-finance the relevant debt. 
Business Review continued
Financial Review continued 30    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    31  
The Group manages compliance with these covenants through 
careful monitoring of operating performance and cash flows, 
regular forecasts of future performance and tight management 
of capital expenditure. This risk has reduced following the 
repayment of the outstanding drawdowns under the Group RCF 
following the disposal of the Hygiene business.
5. Competition
The Group faces competition from global competitors that 
provide similar products to those offered by the Group. 
Competition in the industry is based upon: range and quality 
of products offered; the ability to deliver new products; 
geographical reach; reputation; price; and customer 
relationships. The hygiene market was characterised by large 
customers and some production over-capacity with the result 
that there is strong competition to secure contracts with these 
large customers. These risks are much less relevant to the 
continuing business. While these risks have not changed in 
nature over recent periods, prices and demand in the Group’s 
markets could be negatively affected if existing competitors 
increase their supply, or if new competitors enter the market 
with new products and/or favourable cost structures, or if 
important customers reduce demand or request significantly 
reduced prices. In response to a changing competitive 
environment, the Group may need from time to time to make 
certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that could have 
an adverse effect on its sales, results of operations and overall 
financial condition.
This risk is mitigated by the actions described at 2 above. 32    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Business Review continued
Corporate Social Responsibility
Fiberweb endeavours to act in a socially responsible manner 
in all it does. Our businesses apply procedures appropriate 
to and compliant with local laws and operating conditions. 
In all our activities, we strive to ensure employee safety and 
we seek to protect the environment, public and occupational 
health and the communities within which we operate, while 
promoting profitability and business growth. Training and 
development opportunities and initiatives are provided to 
employees to develop and foster the skills, resources and 
knowledge they need to improve our business performance.
Policies and procedures have been established at group 
level which provide a guiding framework for our businesses 
to apply in conjunction with local practices. These include 
policies on ethical business practices, compliance with 
anti-trust laws, equal opportunities and anti-harassment and 
disability. Our market abuse and inside information policies 
govern behaviour in respect of share dealing, market abuse 
and dissemination of information to the market.
The manufacture of our products involves the use of large 
and complex manufacturing equipment and the Board 
attaches great importance to the safety and wellbeing of all 
our people. Matters relating to health and safety performance 
are reviewed and discussed at each Board meeting and as 
discussed below, we measure and track our employee safety 
record continuously.
Our businesses support the local communities in which they 
operate. Examples of some of the initiatives our people have 
been involved in during the year are discussed in more detail 
below. 
Employees
Fiberweb’s people are one of its most important 
resources. Their experience and expertise, their 
commitment to innovation and excellence and their drive 
to improve our performance is greatly valued.
 
Fiberweb’s policy is to provide equal opportunities for 
employment regardless of gender, race, colour, national 
origin, religion, age, marital status, sexual orientation 
or disability. Fiberweb takes compliance with anti- 
discrimination requirements very seriously in all the territories 
in which it operates. All our employees, both current 
and prospective, are given full and fair consideration for 
employment, training, career development and promotion, 
based on their skills and abilities. Fiberweb’s disability 
policy seeks to ensure that disabled people have the same 
opportunities as other employees for career development 
and training. Where premises, physical equipment and 
machinery or working methods could put a disabled job 
applicant or an employee at a disadvantage, Fiberweb will 
take all reasonable steps to overcome this. Any employee 
who becomes disabled whilst in employment will be given 
Fiberweb’s full support to ensure that they can continue in 
their existing job. Where this is not possible, retraining and 
redeployment for alternative vacancies will be considered.
Fiberweb believes in open communication channels across 
its businesses and employees are regularly provided with 
information concerning the performance and prospects of 
their local business unit and the global business. Internet 
based communications are used to provide information 
globally and employee councils and other local forums 
enable employees’ views to be heard and taken into 
account. In 2011 we launched a major management 
development programme – Fiberweb xL – to ensure that 
we both retain our most talented staff and prepare them for 
new and greater challenges within Fiberweb as their careers 
develop. This programme will continue in 2012 and the first 
cohort is due to complete the four module programme in 
June 2012. 
Health and Safety
Fiberweb remains committed to providing a safe and 
healthy workplace for its employees and visitors and to 
protecting the environment of the communities in which 
it operates. This commitment is a core business value 
and is integrated into our daily operations. w e continue 
to devote significant resources to our HS&e programme 
with the aim of achieving zero injuries and zero adverse 
environmental impacts while at the same time promoting 
profitability and business growth. 
 
HS&e Management System
Fiberweb is in the process of transforming its HS&E 
management system to follow the globally recognised 
International Standards Organisation (ISO) 14001 and the 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 
18001 formats. These formats provide for a consistent and 
sustainable approach to managing HS&E globally. 
This transformation process began in 2010 with the 
development of the corporate HS&E management system 
elements, which establishes the framework and expectations 
for all operating facilities to follow. Whilst some operating 
facilities located in Europe currently have ISO 14001 and 
OHSAS 18001 certified management systems, the remaining 
facilities will begin developing site specific HS&E management 
systems, in accordance with the new corporate format.  32    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    33  
In 2011, a pilot implementation was successfully completed 
at the Green Bay facility in the US. The lessons learned 
from the pilot implementation will provide guidance and 
efficiencies across the organisation as the implementation 
process continues in the coming years. 
Fiberweb also maintains a three year HS&E strategy 
plan which outlines the key goals and strategies needed 
to sustain strong HS&E performance globally. Through 
periodic stakeholder review, this plan remains in alignment 
with our operations’ strategic plans, which promotes HS&E 
integration into our daily operations.
Compliance Assurance 
Fiberweb is committed to ensuring all operating facilities 
maintain strict compliance with HS&E regulations. T o that 
end, Fiberweb’s long standing compliance assurance 
programme has provided a comprehensive evaluation of 
conformance to applicable government regulations and 
corporate HS&E requirements. 
Once every three years, each operating facility participates 
in a comprehensive HS&E compliance audit. In addition, 
follow-up audits are performed to confirm any action items 
are completed as planned. In 2011, HS&E compliance audits 
were performed at facilities located in Biesheim, France; 
Norrköping, Sweden; T erno d’Isola, Italy; and Trezzano Rosa, 
Italy. Additionally, follow-up audits were performed at facilities 
in Gravatai, Brazil; San Jose Iturbide, Mexico; Simpsonville, 
South Carolina; Washougal, Washington; and Madison, 
T ennessee.
Since our HS&E compliance audits began in 2007, many 
audit findings have been identified to improve HS&E 
performance and conformance to regulatory requirements. 
Because each operating facility has taken responsibility to 
address these findings in a timely manner, the vast majority 
of all audit findings have been resolved.  
Global HSe Communications
We believe that regular communication is essential in 
sustaining an effective HS&E programme. Fiberweb 
therefore continues to conduct HS&E Lead T eam and HS&E 
Coordinator meetings which provide group-wide forums 
for sharing best practices, collaborating on continuous 
improvement initiatives and promoting the integration of 
HS&E into the overall business. In 2011, Fiberweb began 
communicating group-wide safety alerts and critical 
HS&E events to further enhance HS&E communication. 
Furthermore, the Americas and European HS&E 
Coordinators held routine conference calls throughout 2011 
to discuss HS&E programmes.
The following key elements provide an overview of our health 
and safety programmes and performance: 
1. Safety Performance Metrics 
Fiberweb uses two metrics globally to measure safety 
performance. The recordable injury rate (RIR) represents the 
number of recordable injuries per 100 full-time employees. 
The lost workday rate (LWDR) represents the number of 
injuries per 100 full-time employees, with one or more days 
away from work. In 2011, Fiberweb achieved a RIR of 1.7, 
which is 76% lower than the US industry average of 5.0. 
Further, 4 operating facilities completed the year without a 
single recordable injury and 7 operating facilities did not 
experience a single lost work day injury. Since 2001, our 
global recordable injury rate has been reduced by 53%.
The charts below compare Fiberweb’s global RIR and LWDR 
to the US industry averages. The industry average injury 
rates are obtained from the United States Department of 
Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. Because the Bureau 
publishes injury rates at the end of each calendar year, 
the preceding year’s rates are used for the current year. 
Therefore, industry average injury rates reported for the 
current year will be updated the following year. 
 
 
Note: Statistics referenced in this report include Fiberweb 
and the FitesaFiberweb joint venture.
Fiberweb Global RIR
2001
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2002
Fiberweb RIR Industry Average
Fiberweb LWDR Industry Average
2008 2009 2010 2011
Fiberweb Global LWDR
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
0 34    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Business Review continued
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
2. Process Safety Management
Whilst Fiberweb facilities are not currently required to comply 
with the OSHA Process Safety Management (PSM) Standard, 
our manufacturing facilities continue to apply OSHA’s PSM 
principles to facilitate recognition and control of process 
hazards. T o ensure a comprehensive process analysis, 
Hazard and Operability (HAZOP) studies are performed by 
cross functional teams consisting of employees and HS&E 
professionals. In 2011, three follow-up HAZOP studies were 
performed, which brings the total number of HAZOP studies 
to over 30 since 2000. T o supplement the formal HAZOP 
process, Fiberweb facilities continue to use Process Safety 
Assessment tools to manage smaller scale changes to 
equipment and processes.  
3. Near Miss reporting
Fiberweb recognises that near miss reporting is a valuable 
leading safety performance indicator used in injury 
prevention. In recent years, modifications have been made 
to our electronic near miss reporting programme to promote 
reporting and ensure key information is available for analysis. 
T o that end, additional enhancements were made to the on-
line programme in 2011, which included a pilot study at two 
operating facilities. These enhancements to the programme 
are designed to streamline the reporting process, ensure 
critical data is captured and improve near miss trending and 
analysis. As a result of these efforts the number of near miss 
reports has doubled since 2009.  
4. resource exchange Process 
Fiberweb’s Resource Exchange Programme (REX) was 
developed in 2009 for the purpose of promoting professional 
development among HS&E Coordinators, evaluating HS&E 
compliance at operating facilities and sharing best practices 
across the Group. Following a structured schedule, REX 
participants visit Fiberweb operating facilities and interact 
with site leadership on HS&E topics. In 2011, all of the sites 
in the Americas (except the Brazil facility) and the sites in 
France and Sweden participated in the REX programme. 
5. “back to basics iii” (“b2b3”) Safety initiative
The “Back to Basics” safety initiative was developed by 
Fiberweb in 2007. The initiative was developed for the purpose 
of promoting awareness of historical safety and providing 
another system for identifying hazards at operating locations. 
The initiative has undergone three revisions and remains to be 
a key injury prevention tool in Fiberweb’s HS&E programme. 
Awards and recognition
Our facility in Green Bay, US, continues to represent an 
exemplary HS&E programme. Along with maintaining 
OSHA’s VPP STAR status, the facility volunteered to pilot the 
implementation of Fiberweb’s recently developed HS&E 
management system. Over the course of six months, the site 
developed the management system elements, completed 
the key requirements in accordance with ISO 14001 and 
OHSAS 18001 and conducted employee training sessions.  
In addition, the facility continued its safety performance 
record of operating for over 9 years without a recordable 
injury and for over 14 years without a lost workday injury.
The Environment
Fiberweb is committed to developing and promoting 
products and processes that reduce waste and adverse 
environmental impacts. This includes both the efficient 
use of materials and energy in product design and 
development and an awareness of the effect on the 
environment of our manufacturing processes and end 
use of our products.
 
Fiberweb encourages each of its facilities to develop its own 
environmental programmes and to work towards reducing 
its environmental impact. We continue to focus on identifying 
and improving performance in key areas of environmental 
impact, which include waste reduction, energy consumption, 
water consumption, the use of recycled and biodegradable 
materials and packaging.
Our businesses are encouraged to report all environmental 
impacts and key performance information which is collected 
twice a year through the Environmental Index Reporting 
System, an electronic data collection system. The data is 
collated annually and provides a means by which our 
businesses can evaluate their environmental performance  
and set improvement targets. In 2011, several additional  
key environmental performance indicators (KPIs) were added 
to the Environmental Index, including new fuel usage 
categories, water discharge, environmental management  
and information regarding community and social programmes. 
Fiberweb continues to focus on identifying and improving 
performance in key areas of environmental impact, which 
include energy consumption. FitesaFiberweb has formed an 
Energy Committee which consists of a Coordinator, a 
Sponsor and a member from each FitesaFiberweb facility.  34    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    35  
The goal of the Energy Committee is to reduce the amount of 
energy FitesaFiberweb uses to produce its products through 
the sharing of best practices, trending of key performance 
indicators and a drive for continuous improvement. Its facility 
in Washougal started a High Performance Utility 
Management (HPUM) project with its energy provider.  
T o date, this project has saved approximately 700,000 kWh 
of energy since 1 July 2010 compared to the previous year. 
At the facility in Abedare, UK, the extrusion of biopolymers to 
manufacture tree shelters uses 10% less energy than using 
only polypropylene. This is due to the reduced process 
temperatures and lower melt viscosity of the biopolymer 
material. 
At our facility in Old Hickory, US an inefficient coal-fired 
steam plant has been replaced with a state-of the-art natural 
gas-fired central utilities plant. Previously, Old Hickory 
received its electricity from a neighbouring coal-fired facility. 
The new plant produces significantly less carbon dioxide, 
nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide, while enabling the plant 
to continuously operate – even in the event of plant failure.
Social and Community Matters 
Fiberweb’s businesses are encouraged to become involved 
with their local communities through a range of organisations 
and initiatives. Examples of the support given in 2011 are:
• In our US operations, our employees continue to support 
their local communities in a variety of ways including 
the donation of equipment and voluntary work for local 
schools and organisations. 
• United Way is a nationally recognised, community-based 
organisation in the US that provides local funding to a 
large number of smaller charities and community services 
and is the officially designated charitable organisation that 
Fiberweb sponsors in the US for employee contributions. 
This support is provided through employee donations.
• The Simpsonville facility and its employees have provided 
financial and other support to a number of local voluntary 
organisations and charities including United Way, blood 
drives and food donations.
• Fiberweb Sweden sponsors an association against drugs 
and also participates in a class at a local high school 
which involves visits and participation in practical work 
projects.
Sustainability and the Supply Chain
Fiberweb continues to work actively to design and develop 
products that promote sustainable development principles 
and do not adversely impact the environment or the health 
and safety of the communities it serves. This is pursued 
primarily through our R&D innovation strategy as well 
as centralised procurement or, where this is impractical, 
local sourcing. Sustainability plays an important role in 
our research and development activities where we seek 
to develop ways to reduce raw material usage and energy 
consumption and work with customers and suppliers to 
develop products with improved sustainability.
We actively seek to develop and market products which use 
renewable and recycled materials and we participate in a 
number of sustainability-related initiatives of our 
stakeholders, including our suppliers and investor groups.  
In 2011, we formed a Sustainability Steering Committee to 
develop our sustainability strategy and objectives and to 
monitor and report on our performance in this area.  
We expect to be in a position to issue our first Sustainability 
Report highlighting our strategy, objectives and performance 
around the middle of 2012. 36    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
The Board consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and three 
independent Non-Executive Directors as follows:
Board of Directors
Daniel Dayan (48) 
Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Abrams (56) 
Chief Financial Officer 
Malcolm Coster (67) 
Non-Executive Chairman 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
Richard Stillwell (62) 
Non-Executive Director 
Senior Independent Director 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
Stephen Dryden (43) 
Non-Executive Director 
Chairman, Audit Committee
Brian Taylorson (56) 
Non-Executive Director
Kate Miles (44) 
Group Finance Director (Designate)
A Strong Board – Complementary mix of skills and experience
      
    Relevant  Business and  Listed 
  Manufacturing Financial industry  commercial company International
 experience qualifications experience experience director operations 
Executive Directors
Daniel Dayan, Chief Executive Officer  3  3 3 3 3 
Daniel Abrams, Chief Financial Officer 3 3 3 3 3 3
Kate Miles, Group Finance Director 
(Designate) 3 3 3 3  3 
Non-Executive Directors
Malcolm Coster, Chairman  3  3 3 3 3
Stephen Dryden  3 3 3 3 3 3
Richard Stillwell  3  3 3 3 3
Brian Taylorson  3 3 3 3 3 3 36    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    37  
Malcolm Coster (67) 
Non-Executive Chairman 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
 
Malcolm joined Fiberweb as Chairman-
designate in June 2006, was appointed 
to the Board on 30 August 2006 and was 
appointed Chairman with effect from the 
demerger of Fiberweb from BBA Group 
plc in November 2006. He is a Non-
Executive Director of The Universe Group 
plc and Chairman of its Remuneration 
Committee. He was formerly Chairman of 
MTL Instruments Group plc,  
Chairman of DMW Group Limited, 
Chairman of Synamic Limited and a 
Non-Executive Director of The Performing 
Right Society, iXimaging Limited, British 
T echnology Group plc and T orotrak plc. 
An engineer and information technologist 
by training, he was President of Europe, 
Middle East and Africa for UNISYS 
Corporation between 1994 and 1997, 
Chairman of UNISYS Limited and 
Executive Partner, Board Member, 
Head of International Development and 
Managing Partner of the management 
consulting practice at Coopers & 
Lybrand (now PwC) between 1986 and 
1994. His early career was with BP where 
he was BP Group Systems Coordinator. 
Daniel Dayan (48) 
Chief Executive Officer
Daniel joined Fiberweb in June 2005 as 
its Chief Executive Officer and was 
appointed to the Board on 21 July 2006. 
He served as a Non-Executive Director of 
Stobart Group Limited between 2009 and 
2011 and was appointed as a Trustee of 
the human rights charity Freedom from 
T orture in 2009. Between 1994 and 2005 
he was employed by Novar plc in a 
variety of general management and 
functional positions, including Head of 
Corporate Development and Chief 
Executive Officer of Novar’s largest 
division, Intelligent Building Systems.  
He was a Director of Novar plc from 
January 2004 until its acquisition by 
Honeywell in March 2005. Earlier in his 
career, he worked in manufacturing 
management with ICI plc and as a 
management consultant for Arthur D. 
Little. He is a chartered mechanical 
engineer.
Daniel Abrams (56) 
Chief Financial Officer  
 
Daniel joined Fiberweb in February 
2008 as Director and Chief Financial 
Officer. Prior to joining Fiberweb he was 
most recently Chief Financial Officer of 
Cambridge Display T echnology Inc and 
prior to this role was Finance Director of 
Xenova Group plc between 1997 and 
2005. He has also held senior finance 
roles with Diageo plc, including Head 
of Corporate Finance and Strategy, and 
PepsiCo Inc., where he was VP Finance 
for one of the beverage divisions.  
He holds an MA in law from Cambridge 
and qualified as a chartered accountant 
with Arthur Andersen & Co. He has been 
a member of the Financial Reporting 
Review Panel since January 2007.
Richard Stillwell (62) 
Non-Executive Director 
Senior Independent Director 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Richard was appointed to the Board on 
30 August 2006, is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and is the 
Senior Independent Director. He was a 
Non-Executive Director of BBA Group plc 
from 1998 to 2006 and Chairman of its 
Remuneration Committee. He is the 
Non-Executive Chairman of St Ives plc 
and Scott Bader Company Limited and  
a Non-Executive Director of Penna 
Consulting plc and TBI Limited.  
Until August 2000 he was Executive 
Vice-President Industrial Specialties at  
Imperial Chemical Industries plc,  
holding various posts since 1974.  
He is a qualified barrister.
Stephen Dryden (43) 
Non-Executive Director 
Chairman, Audit Committee
Steve was appointed to the Board on  
1 June 2009. He has been the Group 
Finance Director of DS Smith plc since  
1 April 2008. He previously held the 
position of Finance Director of Filtrona 
plc following its demerger from Bunzl plc 
in 2005. Prior to that he was divisional 
Finance Director of the Filtrona 
businesses and held other senior finance 
positions within Bunzl plc. He began his 
career at Price Waterhouse and has  
also held various finance roles in 
Rolls-Royce plc.
Brian Taylorson (56) 
Non-Executive Director
Brian was appointed to the Board on  
25 September 2006. He is currently 
Finance Director of Elementis plc,  
a global speciality chemicals company,  
a position he has held since April 2002. 
Prior to joining Elementis in 2001,  
he was Head of European Chemicals 
M&A at KPMG Corporate Finance.  
From 1983 to 2000 he held a number of 
finance positions at Dow Chemical 
Company. He is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant and a member of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Kate Miles (44) 
Group Finance Director (Designate)
Kate joined Fiberweb in September 
2006 as Group Financial Controller and 
was promoted to Finance Director of 
Fiberweb’s Consumer Fabrics Division 
in October 2010. She qualified as a 
chartered accountant with Ernst & 
Young and subsequently worked in 
positions of increasing responsibility at 
Reed Elsevier plc and First T echnology 
plc. Kate will be appointed as Group 
Finance Director upon Daniel Abrams’ 
departure at the end of March 2012.  38    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
The Directors present their annual report together with the 
financial statements and auditor’s report for the year ended  
31 December 2011.
Principal Activities and business review
Fiberweb is an international group of businesses involved in the 
development, manufacturing and supply of specialist industrial 
and construction materials. It operates principally in Europe and 
North America and has a strong portfolio of products and brands 
and market leading positions in several countries.
Fiberweb plc is the Group holding company. The subsidiary and 
associated undertakings principally affecting the profits and net 
assets of the Group in the year are listed on page 100.
The Company is required to set out in this report a Business 
Review and a Corporate Governance Statement. The Business 
Review is the “Management Report” for the purpose of DTR 
4.1.8R. This report and the Business Review set out a fair review 
of the business of the Group during the financial year ended  
31 December 2011, including an analysis of the position of the 
Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business 
Review are set out on pages 10 to 35 and comprise:
   
  Page(s)
Vision and Strategy 10
Markets, Trends and External Environment 12 to 16
Research and Development 18 to 20
Financial Review 23 to 31
Review of Results 24 to 26
Key Performance Indicators 27 and 28
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 29 to 31
Corporate Social Responsibility 32 to 35
Employees 32
Health and Safety 32 to 34
The Environment 34 and 35
Social and Community Matters 35
Sustainability and the Supply Chain 35
The Business Review is supplemented by the Chairman’s 
Statement and the Chief Executive’s Review, which are set out 
on pages 4 and 5 and pages 6 to 8 respectively. The Corporate 
Governance Statement can be found on pages 41 to 45. The 
Business Review and the Corporate Governance Statement are 
incorporated into this report by reference.
results and Dividends
The continuing underlying loss before taxation of the Group was 
£(5.1) million (2010: £6.1 million profit). The full results for the year, 
which were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 February 
2012, are set out in the accompanying financial statements and 
the notes thereto on pages 55 to 103.
An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid on 4 
November 2011. The Directors recommend the payment of a final 
dividend for 2011 of 2.0 pence per share (2010: 2.5 pence per 
share), making a total dividend for the year of 3.0 pence per share 
(2010: 4.2 pence per share). Subject to shareholder approval, the 
final dividend will be payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 27 April 2012. A dividend 
reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) is in place that allows shareholders 
to purchase additional shares in the Company using their cash 
dividend. Further information regarding the plan is set out in 
Shareholder Information on page 105.
Acquisitions and Disposals
The Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Boddingtons 
International Limited, the parent company of the Boddingtons 
group of companies, a leading UK based specialist geosynthetic 
and accessory manufacturer, for a consideration comprising £8.2 
million and the assumption of debt of £0.9 million. The acquisition 
was completed on 6 January 2011 and the consideration of 
£8.2 million was satisfied by a payment of £4.5 million in cash 
and the issue of 4.5 million new ordinary Fiberweb plc shares, 
representing approximately 3.5% of Fiberweb’s enlarged issued 
share capital. Boddingtons has been integrated into the Group’s 
Geosynthetics segment.
The Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Tubex 
Limited, the parent company of the Tubex group of companies, 
the largest European specialist producer of tree shelters, for a 
consideration comprising £5.1 million and the assumption of debt 
of £0.7 million. The acquisition was completed on 17 May 2011 
and the total consideration was satisfied by a payment of £3.85 
million in cash and the issue of 1.8 million new ordinary Fiberweb 
plc shares, representing approximately 1.05% of Fiberweb’s 
enlarged issued share capital. Tubex has been integrated into the 
Group’s Geosynthetics segment.
The Group disposed of the majority of its hygiene business 
to Petropar S.A. for a total consideration of US$286 million 
(approximately £184 million). The disposal was completed on 
30 December 2011 and the total consideration was satisfied 
by the payment of US$260 million in cash and the issue of a 
US$26 million Vendor Loan Note payable by Petropar S.A. by  
30 December 2012 and attracting a 6% interest rate. The sale  
has allowed Fiberweb to become a focused leader in certain 
attractive segments of the growing technical fabrics and construction 
products markets, with leading positions in several attractive 
market and technology niches, notably in filtration, construction 
specialties, geosynthetics, agriculture and several medical areas. 
The disposal enabled the Group to repay all of the amounts owed 
under the Revolving Credit Facility on 5 January 2012.
Capital Structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company, 
including movements during the year and the number of shares 
in issue at the end of the year, are shown in note 26 on page 91. 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries 
no right to fixed income and each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company. The rights attaching 
to the ordinary shares are defined in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. All issued shares are fully paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, the 
size of a holding or voting rights, which are all matters governed 
by the Articles of Association. The Directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital, so far as the Directors are aware.
Details of the significant holdings of ordinary shares as notified to 
the Company are shown in the table of Substantial Shareholdings  
and Voting Rights on page 39. No shares are held by the Fiberweb 
Employee Benefit Trust. Details of employee share schemes are 
set out in note 25 on page 90.
Directors’ Report The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors 
are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related 
legislation. The Articles themselves may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors, including any powers in relation 
to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares, 
are described in the Company’s Articles of Association, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related 
legislation and the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board 
which can be found on the Company’s website.
The Company has various agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as 
commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, property lease 
arrangements and employee share plans (including a €30 million 
and $40 million multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement). 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees that provide for 
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a 
result of a takeover bid.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2011, shareholders 
approved a resolution authorising the Company to make market 
purchases of up to approximately 15 per cent of its existing 
ordinary share capital. The authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2012 unless 
renewed. Accordingly, a special resolution to renew this authority 
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
details of which are set out in the Notice of Annual General 
Meeting enclosed with this report. The Company did not purchase 
any of its issued ordinary shares during the year under the 
authority mentioned above.
Substantial Shareholdings and Voting rights
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTRs) is published on a Regulated Information Service and on 
the Company’s website. As at 29 February 2012, the Company 
has been notified under DTR 5 of the following significant holdings 
of voting rights in its shares:
   % of
  Notification issued No. of
Name of Holder Date shares Shares
The Article 6 Marital Trust created  
under the First Amended and  
Restated Jerry Zucker Revocable  
Trust dated 04.02.07 30.01.12 9.29 16,131,765
Standard Life Investments Ltd  09.05.11  9.12 15,830,085
Franklin Templeton Investments 13.03.12 5.29  9,187,942
River & Mercantile Asset  
Management LLP 16.02.12 3.90 6,777,595
Legal & General 16.02.12 3.34 5,799,959
Sterling Strategic Value Limited 29.02.12 3.18 5,522,000
Point Lobos Master Fund, L.P 15.12.11 3.06 5,314,082
Henderson Global Investors 16.02.12 3.02 5,250,000
Property Values
The Directors are of the opinion that the market values of the 
Group’s properties are not substantially different from the values 
included in the Group’s financial statements.
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 35. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on 
pages 23 to 31. In addition, notes 20 and 21 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements include the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities and its exposures to liquidity risk. Credit risk exposure is 
discussed in note 16 on page 77.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had net cash of £22 million 
(2010: net debt of £151.2 million). Following the disposal of the 
majority of the hygiene business in December 2011, the Group 
amended its existing revolving credit loan facility (“RCF”) provided 
by a syndicate of several international banks. The amended RCF 
has a remaining term of one and a half years until July 2013 and 
comprises a €30 million and $40 million multi-currency facility. The 
RCF is subject to the financial covenants set out on pages 80 to 
82 in note 20. At 31 December 2011, £157.8 million (2010: £173.7 
million) was drawn down under the RCF prior to the amendment 
discussed above and was repaid on 5 January 2012 using the 
proceeds of the disposal of the hygiene business.
The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors its 
projected compliance with its banking covenants under the RCF, 
which is reviewed by the Board. Forecasts are then adjusted 
for sensitivities which address the principal risks to which the 
Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in raw material prices, 
exchange rates and best estimates of the possible impact of the 
macroeconomic environment on the Group’s underlying trading 
results. Consideration is then given to the potential actions 
available to management to mitigate the impact of one or more 
of the sensitivities. The Group’s central and sensitised forecasts, 
after applying reasonable possible adverse variations in trading 
performance, show that the Group is able to operate within the 
level of the RCF and remain covenant compliant. Covenant tests 
are required quarterly under the RCF.
After making enquires, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Charitable and Political Donations
The Company made no political donations during the year. Group 
donations to charities worldwide were £16,273 (2010: £48,640), 
with UK charities receiving £1,500 (2010: £10,000). Charitable 
donations comprise amounts paid in support of local community 
initiatives and charities. No charitable donations were individually 
material.
Supplier Payment Policy
It is the Company’s and Group’s policy to negotiate terms of 
payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each 
transaction to ensure that the terms of payment are clearly 
understood and it is the Company’s policy to abide by terms of 
payment. Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2011  
were equivalent to 52 days’ purchases (2010: 50 days) based on 
the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
board of Directors
The names of the Directors of the Company as at the date of this 
report, together with their dates of appointment, their biographical 
details and details of their skills and experience, are shown on 
pages 36 and 37.
Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    39   Daniel Dayan and Malcolm Coster will retire by rotation under 
the Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting and 
offer themselves for re-election by shareholders. Mr Coster does 
not have a service contract with the Company. Profiles of each 
of Mr Dayan and Mr Coster are given on page 37. The Board 
considers that each of Mr Dayan and Mr Coster continues to 
make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and 
has demonstrated clear commitment to their respective roles 
(including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee 
meetings).
As announced on 3 January 2012, Daniel Abrams will resign 
as a Director by the end of March 2012. Mr Abrams joined the 
Group at the earlier stages of its turnaround programme and 
was a key member of the management team that drove steady 
performance improvement from 2008 to 2010 and accomplished 
the transformational sale of Fiberweb’s hygiene business.
Kate Miles, formerly Finance Director of Fiberweb’s Hygiene 
business, will be promoted to Group Finance Director, effective on 
Mr Abrams’ departure. The appointment of Mrs Miles is consistent 
with the Company’s succession plans and was approved by the 
Board following recommendations by the Nomination Committee. 
Following the appointment of Mrs Miles as a Director of the 
Company, she will offer herself for election by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of 
Association. Mrs Miles’ profile is given on page 37.
Director’s interests
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, remuneration and 
interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 52. Other than their service 
contracts, no Director had any material interest in any contract of 
significance with any Group company at any time during the year.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company entered into a Deed of Indemnity with each Director 
of the Company upon their appointment and each Deed of 
Indemnity remains in force at the date of this report. The terms 
of each of these deeds are identical and reflect the statutory 
provisions on indemnities introduced by the Companies (Audit, 
Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004. Under the 
terms of each deed, the Company undertakes to indemnify the 
relevant Director, to the fullest extent permitted by law, against any 
and all liability, howsoever caused (including by that Director’s 
own negligence), suffered or incurred by that Director in the 
course of acting as a Director or employee of the Company or any 
member of the Group.
Similarly, the Company entered into a Deed Poll of Indemnity 
in favour of the Company Secretary and persons discharging 
managerial responsibility on 30 October 2006. The terms of 
the Deed Poll are similar to the terms of the Deed of Indemnity 
entered into with the Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity, Deed Poll of Indemnity and the Company’s 
Articles of Association are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the Company’s registered office and will also be 
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s sixth Annual General Meeting will be held at the 
offices of Baker & McKenzie LLP, 100 New Bridge Street, London 
EC4V 6JA on 2 May 2012 at 11:30am. Enclosed with this report 
is the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which sets out the 
resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting. These 
are explained in a letter from the Chairman, which accompanies 
the Notice.
Disclosure of information to Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of the approval 
of this annual report confirms that:
q 	 	so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
q 	 	 the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 (2) of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company 
will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 29 February 2011 and 
is signed on its behalf by:
Anthony O’Carroll
Company Secretary
Registered Office:
Forsyth House
211-217 Lower Richmond Road
Richmond on Thames
London
TW9 4LN
Directors’ Report continued
40    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    41  
Corporate Governance
Fiberweb plc is committed to complying with the best practice 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code adopted 
by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 (the “Code”). 
The Company considers that it has, during the year ended 
31 December 2011, complied in full with the provisions of the 
Code, except in respect of Code provision A.4.1, as independent 
Non-Executive Directors do not form a majority of the members 
of the Nomination Committee. Details and explanations of the 
application of the Code are given later in this report.
Incorporated in this report by reference are details of significant 
holdings of and special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital, voting rights, rules relating to the appointment 
and replacement and powers of Directors and amendment of 
the Articles of Association of the Company which are set out on  
pages 38 and 39. A going concern statement can be found on 
page 39. The business model and strategy for delivering the 
objectives of the Company are set out on pages 10 to 14.
The role of the board
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the success of the 
Company. The Board meets regularly to determine the strategic 
direction of the Group and to review operating, financial and risk 
performance. Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board 
Committees as described later in this report.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board that 
includes approval of the following:
q 	 the Group’s long term objectives and strategy;
q 	 	 acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above 
certain thresholds;
q 	 	all guarantees and treasury related transactions above certain 
thresholds;
q 	 	the financial statements and assessment of financial 
performance;
q 	 the Company’s dividend policy;
q 	 	transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company 
shares;
q 	 the Group’s risk management strategy;
q 	 	legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain 
thresholds;
q 	 	appointments to the Board and the appointment of the 
Company Secretary;
q 	 	 Group policies and the scope of delegations by the Board; and
q 	 Committees and executive management of the Group.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be viewed 
on the Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com. The schedule of 
matters is reviewed on an annual basis. Matters outside the scope 
of the formal schedule of matters are decided by management 
in accordance with the delegated authority limits set out in the 
Group Authority and Signing Policy.
In order to ensure that all matters are given due consideration, 
the Board has adopted a schedule of agenda items, which is 
reviewed and updated annually. These agenda items include:
q 	 an annual strategy review;
q 	 divisional updates and business plans;
q 	 annual budget setting and approval;
q 	 a review of Group policies; and
q 	 succession planning.
At each meeting, the Board receives information from the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer on the 
performance and results of the Group and individual operating 
businesses, the Group’s current financial position and updates on 
any other significant matters. The Divisional Managing Directors 
and Heads of Functions present to the Board from time to time 
and other senior managers and the Company Secretary update 
the Board on developments in their area of responsibility.
The Directors are generally provided with detailed and 
comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting. The 
agenda is set by the Chairman in conjunction with the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company 
Secretary. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board 
for the timeliness and quality of information and is responsible for 
advising the Board on corporate governance matters and Board 
procedures. All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board Committees. 
The Directors may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in relation to their responsibilities as directors. 
None of the Directors obtained independent professional advice 
in this regard in the period under review.
The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held during 
the year and individual attendance by the Directors at those 
meetings are set out in the table below.
Malcolm Coster, Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams all attended 
meetings of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 
at the invitation of the Chairmen of those Committees.
During the year the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
met formally without the Executive Directors on at least one 
occasion and held several informal discussions without the 
Executive Directors, in all cases to discuss various corporate 
governance matters.
   Full Audit Remuneration Nomination  
   Board Committee Committee Committee 
 Number of meetings held during the year 18 4 6 1
 Attendance:
 Malcolm Coster Chairman 18 4 6 1
 Daniel Dayan CEO 17 4 5 1
 Daniel Abrams CFO 18 4 5 1
 Stephen Dryden Non-Executive Director 18 4 6 1
 Richard Stillwell Non-Executive Director 17 4 6 1
 Brian Taylorson Non-Executive Director  16 3 5 1 42     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
The board, board balance and independence
The Board comprises two Executive Directors and four Non-
Executive Directors (including the Chairman) who contribute a 
wide range of complementary skills and experience. Details of 
each director’s skills and experience are set out on pages 36 
and 37.
The Chairman of the Board is Malcolm Coster. The Chairman’s 
other significant commitments are set out on page 37.
The Chief Executive Officer is Daniel Dayan. Richard Stillwell is 
the Senior Independent Director. He is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns that the normal channels of contact with the 
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer would not resolve.
The Board believes that there is an appropriate balance of 
executive and Non-Executive Directors on the Board, without 
one individual or group dominating the Board’s decision-making 
process.
The Board has determined all its Non-Executive Directors to be 
independent in character and judgement. This includes Richard 
Stillwell who served as a non-executive director of BBA Group plc, 
the company from which the Company demerged in 2006.  
The Board considers Richard Stillwell to be independent 
notwithstanding his prior service with BBA Group plc. The Non- 
Executive Chairman, Malcolm Coster, was considered 
independent in character and judgement on appointment. The 
Board will assess the independence of its Non-Executive Directors 
on a continuous basis.
Following the introduction on 1 October 2008 of the statutory 
duty of directors to avoid situations which have or may have an 
interest which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests 
of the Company, the Nomination Committee has been given 
responsibility for considering and if appropriate authorising such 
conflict situations on such terms as are considered necessary or 
if material referring them to the Board, on an ongoing basis. Any 
director in a conflicting or potentially conflicting situation is excluded 
from any decision. During the year the Nomination Committee 
reviewed the conflict situations authorised and concluded that they 
remained appropriate and accordingly the Company has complied 
with the procedures in place to ensure the effective operation of 
the Board’s powers to authorise conflict situations.
role of the Chairman and Chief executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate 
and there is a clear division of responsibilities between these 
roles. In accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted a 
formal written statement of the division of responsibilities between 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective 
engagement and contribution of all Non-Executive and Executive 
Directors. In conjunction with the Company Secretary, he is 
responsible for ensuring that directors receive information in an 
accurate, clear and timely manner and for promoting effective 
decision making. He is also responsible for ensuring that directors 
continually update their skills and knowledge. The Chairman has 
active contact and involvement with the Executive Directors and 
the affairs of the Company. This serves to keep him abreast of 
current business issues but also provides the Executive Directors 
with access to an independent opinion on day to day business 
decisions.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for the day to day 
management of the Group’s businesses and acts in accordance 
with the authority delegated by the Board. He is responsible 
for developing and proposing a strategy for consideration 
and adoption by the Board and for implementing the Board’s 
strategies, decisions and policies. He is also responsible for 
ensuring that the business strategy and activities are effectively 
communicated and promoted within and outside the business,  
for building positive relationships with the Company’s stakeholders 
and for creating and developing the Company’s culture.
board Appointments
Primary responsibility for planned and progressive refreshing of 
the Board lies with the Board. The Board, through the work of the 
Nomination Committee, ensures that there is a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors. 
Further details of the work of the Nomination Committee are set 
out on page 45.
Appointments of Non-Executive Directors are made by the Board 
for an initial term of three years, subject to the usual regulatory 
provisions and continued satisfactory performance of their duties. 
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but may be 
made by mutual agreement.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every 
three years.
On appointment, all Non-Executive Directors are advised of the 
time commitment expected of them to fulfil their duties. Letters 
of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection on request.
board induction and Professional Development
The Board has adopted a formal written programme for the 
induction of new directors to familiarise themselves with the 
Group’s businesses, understand the goals, objectives and 
mission of the Company and develop an awareness and 
understanding of the views of the Company’s major shareholders. 
The programme is also structured to enable new directors to  
gain an understanding of their own specific duties and 
responsibilities. The programme, developed in accordance with 
the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators  
guidelines on Board induction, is made up of a combination of 
selected written corporate information, meetings with key senior 
management and site visits and is tailored to take account of  
each new director’s specific needs, skills and experience. Where 
a non-executive director is also being appointed as a member of 
one of the Board Committees, his or her induction will cover 
matters such as the role of and terms of reference of the relevant 
Committee.
In order to maintain, develop and update each director’s knowledge 
and capabilities, the Board and its Committees are briefed on 
corporate governance and regulatory developments as they arise. 
The Audit Committee is briefed on technical and accounting 
matters as a matter of routine at each meeting by senior 
management and the external auditors. The directors receive 
information and training in respect of their statutory duties and their 
disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules and the Listing Rules. A continuous programme of 
development will occur as required.
The Board regards performance evaluation as an important part 
of monitoring and improving its effectiveness and a formal internal 
appraisal of the Board, the Board Committees and the individual 
directors was undertaken during the year. This involved the 
Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, obtaining views from and 
evaluating the performance of the Board, the Board Committees 
and the individual directors and the Non-Executive Directors, led 
by the Senior Independent Director, assessing the performance 
of the Chairman. An internal evaluation was considered by the 
Board to be adequate given the size and current position and 
circumstances of the Company and accordingly the evaluation 
was not externally facilitated.
Corporate Governance continued    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    43  
board Committees
The terms of reference of the principal Committees of the Board, 
the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the 
Nomination Committee, are available on the Company’s website 
at www.fiberweb.com.
remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 52.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of three independent, Non-Executive 
Directors and is chaired by Stephen Dryden. Its other members are 
Richard Stillwell and Brian Taylorson. Both Stephen Dryden and 
Brian Taylorson are qualified Chartered Accountants and currently 
hold senior finance roles in major UK listed public companies.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include all 
matters listed in Code provision C.3.2 although in practice risk 
management is reviewed by the Board as a whole. The terms of 
reference are reviewed annually and any proposed revisions are 
formally approved and adopted by the Board.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and 
their remuneration. The Committee reviews the external auditors’ 
independence and considers the nature, scope and results of the 
auditors’ work and the provision of non-audit services by them. 
The Committee focuses particularly on compliance with legal and 
other regulatory requirements, accounting standards and ensuring 
that an effective system of internal controls is maintained. The 
Committee may consider any financial matter that may have an 
impact on the Company. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the annual and interim financial statements and 
bi-annual trading statements remains with the Board.
The Audit Committee normally meets not less than three times a year 
at dates to coincide with the financial reporting cycle. The Committee 
also meets privately with the external auditors and the internal 
auditors at least once a year. The Chairman may call a meeting at 
the request of the Executive Directors or the external auditors.
In addition to Committee members, the Chairman of the Board, 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group 
Financial Controller, the internal auditor and the external auditors 
normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Audit 
Committee considered the following matters and took the 
following actions in the discharge of its duties:
q 	 	reviewed and advised the Board on the financial statements in 
the 2010 report and accounts;
q 	 	reviewed and assessed the audit services provided and the 
effectiveness of the external auditors;
q 	 	discussed and agreed the nature and the scope of work to be 
performed by the external auditors;
q 	 	reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
systems established by management and reviewed the 
Board’s sign-off procedure on the system of internal controls, 
which are set out in more detail on page 44;
q 	 	reviewed the scope of the work and effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and the manner in which internal audit 
services will be provided;
q 	 	received and reviewed reports from the internal audit function 
on the work undertaken during the year;
q 	 	reviewed the policy on the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditors and assessed the independence of the 
auditors; and
q 	 	reviewed the arrangements by which concerns can be raised 
by staff in respect of possible matters of financial impropriety 
or other matters.
Auditor independence and effectiveness
The external auditors were appointed in 2006. One of the key 
responsibilities of the Committee is to ensure that the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors is safeguarded. The 
Committee has adopted a policy on the provision of non-audit 
services that is in line with the Accounting Practice Board’s 
Ethical Standards. This policy is reviewed annually. It prohibits the 
external auditors from providing certain additional services to the 
Group such as bookkeeping, internal audit, valuations, actuarial 
services and financial systems design and implementation. The 
external auditors are, however, permitted to provide assurance 
services such as reporting accountant work, due diligence and 
certain tax services.
The Group’s general policy is not to use the external auditors for 
acquisition and due diligence work. However, where the Group 
considers it appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers other than the 
preferred supplier may be asked to tender and this may include 
the external auditors. In accordance with the policy, the Chairman 
of the Committee or, in his absence, another designated member 
of the Committee is required to pre-approve certain permitted 
services that exceed the financial limits set out in the policy. For 
non-audit tax fees, the annual pre-approval limit is set at £200,000 
and the pre-approval limit for any one project is set at £100,000. 
For all other services, the pre-approval limit for any one project is 
set at £50,000. The Audit Committee reviews these limits at least 
annually.
A summary of the overall level of non-audit fees paid to the 
external auditors is presented at each Audit Committee meeting. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors, Deloitte LLP, 
for audit and non-audit services provided during the year are 
given in note 4 on page 68.
During the year, the external auditors provided reporting 
accountant services in relation to the rights issue undertaken 
in the first half of the year and reporting accountant and due 
diligence services in relation to the disposal of a majority of the 
Group’s Hygiene business completed in the second half of the 
year. The Audit Committee reviewed the nature and cost of this 
work during the year and approved the ongoing involvement of 
Deloitte LLP in this regard as it was concluded that they were best 
placed to supply such services in a cost effective manner due 
to the experience and qualifications of the individuals providing 
such services and their knowledge of the Group and that the 
best interests of the Group were served by engaging them.  
The Audit Committee reviewed the nature and cost of the non-
audit work undertaken during the year and the safeguards Deloitte 
had in place to protect their independence as auditors and was 
satisfied that this work has not impaired their independence as 
external auditors.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the 
external auditors, the Audit Committee has during the year:
q 	 	reviewed the independence of the external auditors and the 
arrangements Deloitte LLP have in place to identify, report and 
manage conflicts of interest;
q 	 	considered the effectiveness of the external auditors through 
a review of their plan of work and the outputs arising from the 
audit; and
q 	 	 considered the overall extent of non-audit services provided by 
the external auditors, in addition to case by case approval of 
the provision of non-audit services as appropriate as set out 
above. As a result of the above, and taking into account the tenure of 
the auditors, the Committee concluded the independence criteria 
under the relevant standards continue to be met and that it was 
not necessary to tender for the audit work. Accordingly, the 
Committee recommended to the Board the re-appointment of 
Deloitte LLP as external auditors.
internal Control and risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and risk management and reviews its effectiveness 
on an annual basis.
The implementation and maintenance of risk management is 
the responsibility of the Executive Directors and other senior 
management and a system has been established to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks that the Group faces. 
The system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate altogether 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The main elements of the Group’s internal control system are as 
follows:
1.  The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control. As mentioned above in this report, the Board 
meets regularly and has a schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval and the Board Committees operate within their terms 
of reference. This structure includes the Audit Committee which, 
with the Chief Financial Officer, reviews the effectiveness of the 
internal financial and operating control environment of the Group. 
All acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are 
approved by the Board.
2.  Strategic and Business Planning
The Group and each business unit produce and agree a business 
plan each year against which the performance of the business is 
regularly monitored.
3.  Monthly Management Accounts
Detailed monthly management accounts that measure actual 
performance against budget are submitted by management.  
A monthly report is provided to the Board, highlighting key issues 
and summarising the detailed financial information provided by 
the operating units. Forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash 
are reviewed at least quarterly and presented to the Board.
4.  Internal Audit
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the internal auditor undertakes 
a programme of reviews aligned to the business risks. The Audit 
Committee receives a report from the internal auditor at each 
meeting that includes the findings of the reviews conducted and 
any actions agreed with management to be undertaken to improve 
the effectiveness of controls. The internal auditor has direct access 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee 
reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit activities, including 
the scope of work, authority and resources of the internal auditor 
and reviews the internal audit plan at least annually.
5.  System of Control Procedures and Delegated Authorities 
There are clearly defined guidelines and approval limits for capital 
and operating expenditure and other key business transactions 
and decisions that have been approved by the Board. A detailed 
matrix defines the levels of authority for the Group’s senior 
management and their direct reports including in relation to 
acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee 
contracts and treasury matters.
6.  Treasury Policies and Procedures
Detailed procedures exist for investments, currency and 
commodity hedging, the granting of guarantees and the use of 
treasury products.
7.  Risk Identification, Monitoring and Management Procedures 
A process is in place to collate schedules of risks for each key 
site, which are then reviewed by the Divisional Managing Directors 
and consolidated into a schedule of the significant divisional 
level risks. Risks identified cover business, financial, compliance, 
operational as well as environmental, social and governance 
risks. These risk schedules, which include an assessment of their 
likelihood and impact, are kept under review and are presented 
for review at least annually at a Fiberweb Executive Team meeting. 
The Fiberweb Executive Team is responsible for confirming that 
the plans to mitigate those risks are satisfactory and for improving 
internal controls and processes. The Chief Financial Officer is 
responsible for reporting the work of the Fiberweb Executive Team 
on risk management to the Board.
8.  Organisational Structure
Structures are in place at the Company’s Head Office and at 
divisional level that clearly define responsibilities for operational, 
accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company secretarial and 
insurance functions.
9.  Financial Control and Reporting
The Group has adopted policies that are appropriate and as such,  
it has a full set of accounting policies and procedures in force. 
These are regularly reviewed for appropriateness and, when 
required, updated accordingly. Senior management of each 
business are asked to sign an annual confirmation that their 
business has complied with the Group Accounting Policies manual 
in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
The Fiberweb Group uses Hyperion Financial Management 
(“HFM”) for the consolidation of both monthly management 
accounts and annual and interim accounts. Results are prepared 
in accordance with IFRS. Businesses upload individual entity 
results into HFM via a secure internet link. Entity results are 
extracted from local ERP systems in trial balance format which  
are mapped to the common HFM chart of accounts. Entity results 
are reviewed by entity and divisional management prior to 
submission to HFM. The results are consolidated within HFM.  
HFM contains a number of validation checks and controls to 
ensure the accuracy of financial information. Results are reviewed 
by senior management including the Fiberweb Executive Team 
and the Board.
10. Group Policies
A new Group Policy Manual was adopted in 2007 and 
communicated to all businesses. The policies are reviewed 
regularly and revised as necessary to take account of changing 
law and circumstances. New policies are added when appropriate. 
A review of compliance with a number of these policies by 
Group companies has been introduced and the results are 
communicated to the Fiberweb Executive Team and the Board 
as necessary.
44     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Corporate Governance continued Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    45  
11. Health, Safety and Environmental Manual (HS&E)
A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details policies, 
standards and procedures that are applicable throughout the 
Group. Further information is included in the Business Review on 
pages 32 to 34. A monthly report is prepared and circulated to 
the Fiberweb Executive Team on HS&E matters and the Board 
receives a report on HS&E matters at each Board meeting.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by 
the Group and that it has been in place for the period under review 
up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.  
The Group’s system is reviewed by the Board and accords with 
the Turnbull guidance. Any significant failings or weaknesses that 
come to management’s and the Board’s attention are addressed 
and appropriate action taken.
The Company had board representation in the FitesaFiberweb 
joint venture and, whilst not applied in their entirety, a number of 
Group policies were adopted by the joint venture. The joint venture 
was subject to the Company’s internal audit procedures and for 
management reporting purposes the joint venture was integrated 
with the Company. The financial results were separately audited 
but were reviewed by the Company’s external auditors.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Malcolm Coster and its 
other members are Daniel Dayan, Richard Stillwell and Stephen 
Dryden. Whilst the Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments, the Chairman will consult with all the directors on 
a regular basis throughout the process. While the composition of 
the Nomination Committee is not in compliance with A.4.1 of the 
Code, in the opinion of the Board it provides a suitable balance of 
knowledge and experience and the constitution of the Committee is 
appropriate given the size of the Board and the process undertaken 
for Board appointments. The Chairman will not participate in any 
discussion relating to the appointment of his successor.
The Committee has responsibility for identifying and nominating 
candidates for Board vacancies and making recommendations 
to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Company’s 
executive and Non-Executive Directors. Before making an 
appointment, the Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of this 
evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities 
required for a particular appointment. Use will be made of 
external recruitment consultants and the final decision regarding 
appointment rests with the Board. The Committee also has 
responsibility for reviewing and if appropriate authorising conflicts 
of interest or potential conflicts of interest of directors.
One Nomination Committee meeting was held during the year at 
which the re-election of Daniel Abrams and Richard Stillwell as 
directors of the Company was considered and recommended to 
the Board for approval and at which potential conflicts of interest 
were reviewed and considered.
Shareholder relations
The Board as a whole is kept up to date on the views of 
Fiberweb’s major shareholders. This is achieved through regular 
meetings during the year between the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Financial Officer and major shareholders to discuss matters 
of mutual interest that are reported to the Board. Broker reports 
are routinely circulated to the Board.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director also met 
with major shareholders during the year. The Board considers 
that the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director 
have an understanding and awareness of the issues and 
concerns of major shareholders and the Chairman, the Senior 
Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Directors  
were available to meet shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the 
Annual General Meeting. The meeting provides an opportunity 
for shareholders to discuss with executive and Non-Executive 
Directors any issues concerning the Company and its activities. 
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to 
answer questions at the meeting.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the Annual 
General Meeting and makes available the proxy voting figures on 
each resolution. The voting results where resolutions are passed 
on a show of hands and details of all proxy votes cast prior to 
the meeting are available on the Company’s website. The results 
of the meeting are announced to the market via a Regulated 
Information Service. This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2011 
has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the applicable Listing Rules. 
A resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements 
will also be approved. The vote will have an advisory status in respect 
of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and 
will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration. Certain parts 
of this Report are audited. Audited information is stated as such in 
the relevant section.
The remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee members are independent, Non-
Executive Directors. The Committee Chairman is Richard Stillwell. 
Its other members are Stephen Dryden and Brian Taylorson. 
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest 
(other than as a shareholder), conflict of interest arising from cross-
directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business of 
the Company.
The Committee normally meets no less than three times a year and 
has delegated responsibility for determining and agreeing with the 
Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of all 
Executive Directors and other senior executives and for determining, 
within the agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration 
packages for each of the Executive Directors (including pension 
rights), any compensation payments and the operation of executive 
incentive schemes. No director is involved in decisions relating 
to his own remuneration. During the period under review, the 
Remuneration Committee met on six occasions.
The Committee’s full terms of reference, which are available on the 
Company’s website at www.fiberweb.com, are reviewed annually 
and any proposed revisions are referred to the Board for formal 
approval and adoption.
The Committee is responsible inter alia for:
q 	 		 making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy 
as applied to the Company’s Executive Directors and other 
senior management;
q 	 	determining the remuneration packages for the Executive 
Directors and the company secretary and the framework 
or broad policy for other designated members of executive 
management including base pay, performance-related bonus 
schemes, long-term incentives and other share awards;
q 	 	overseeing major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the Group;
q 	 	reviewing the design and operation of all share incentive plans 
for Board and shareholder approval, including approving grants 
of share awards to directors and senior managers; and
q 	 	Reporting to the Board and external stakeholders on matters 
within its responsibilities.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street a remuneration 
consultancy, as external advisers. New Bridge Street is a trading 
name of Aon Hewitt Limited, which is part of the Aon Corporation. 
New Bridge Street has provided the Committee with advice in 
respect of certain aspects of main Board and senior executive 
remuneration. New Bridge Street provided no other services to the 
Company however the actuarial practice of Aon Hewitt Limited has 
provided actuarial and accounting assistance to the Company on 
pension schemes. No other services were supplied by any other 
part of Aon Corporation. The Committee has also appointed the 
remuneration practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers to provide 
advice in appropriate circumstances should the need arise. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers provided internal audit and tax advisory 
services to the Company during the year. The remuneration 
practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers operates separately from the 
rest of PricewaterhouseCoopers and there are provisions in place 
to ensure that there is no crossover of information between different 
practice areas. The Committee identified no conflict in the nature of 
services provided by its advisers.
The Committee also consults with the Chairman, who is not a 
member of the Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Head of HR and Change, save in respect of matters 
directly relating to their own remuneration. The Committee receives 
an annual briefing on senior management remuneration and terms 
applicable within the Group and is otherwise appraised of pay and 
conditions in the Group as a whole by the Head of HR and Change 
as necessary to allow the Committee to take such matters into 
account when framing executive remuneration policy.
remuneration Policy
Fiberweb’s remuneration policy is that the remuneration of the 
Company’s Executive Directors and other senior management 
should be designed to attract and retain executives of high calibre 
so that the Company can be managed effectively to the benefit of its 
stakeholders. Remuneration levels are set taking into account the 
remuneration practices found in other UK listed companies of similar 
size, geographical spread and complexity. Consideration  
is also given to the economic realities of the Company’s own  
specific circumstances (in particular the current stage of the 
Company’s development and the international nature of its business 
operations) and remuneration and employment conditions for all 
employees elsewhere in the Group. The Committee is conscious of 
the need to remain competitive in the different geographic  
areas in which the Company operates. In determining its 
remuneration policy, the Committee also takes account of UK 
corporate governance best practice and current market practice.
The remuneration policy of the Company is to pay base salaries and 
total remuneration around the median level for “on-plan” performance 
and to provide the opportunity, via bonuses and long-term incentive 
plans, for executives to be rewarded at the upper quartile for the 
delivery of outstanding levels of performance. The Committee is 
mindful of the dangers of following median remuneration levels and 
conducts external benchmarking less frequently than before.
The Committee has discretion to consider corporate performance 
on environmental, social and governance matters when setting the 
remuneration of Executive Directors but has chosen not to take these 
into account in setting the specific performance targets for 2011 and 
2012. The Committee believes that the structures in place neither 
encourage nor reward inappropriate behaviour in this regard and that 
relevant operational controls relating to such matters are in place. 
HS&E performance remains a key area for the Company.
The Committee considers that the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages contain a suitable balance of fixed and variable 
performance-related pay and that the targets set for performance- 
related pay are appropriate and demanding in the context of 
market practice, the Group’s trading environment and the current 
challenges that it faces. Performance-related remuneration forms 
a substantial element of the total remuneration package and 
is designed so as not to encourage excessive risk-taking but 
to be consistent with an approach which seeks to foster the 
generation of sustainable long-term returns for investors. Therefore, 
the Committee is satisfied that the Company’s remuneration 
policy and the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages do 
not encourage inappropriate operational risk taking and do not 
raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
46     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report   Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    47  
The Committee fully understands and is monitoring government 
proposals on the “clawback” of payments and awards for Executive 
Directors and expects to put arrangements in place once the 
consultation process is complete.
The main elements of the remuneration packages for the Executive 
Directors and senior management are as follows:
q 	 	base salary;
q 	 	benefits in kind;
q 	 	short-term cash based incentives;
q 	 	long-term share based incentives; and
q 	 	pension arrangements.
These elements for the Executive Directors are discussed in 
further detail below.
base Salary
Base salaries are reviewed in relation to market data for 
comparable companies in terms of size, market sector, complexity 
and geographic spread. Reviews generally occur on an annual 
basis and are based on performance, assessment of personal 
objectives where appropriate and any changes in responsibilities.
Daniel Dayan’s base salary for the period under review was 
£382,000 per annum and Daniel Abrams’ base salary for the 
period under review was £227,000 per annum. The total salaries 
received by Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams for the year under 
review are shown in Table 1 on page 50. 
Following the sale of the majority of the Group’s hygiene business 
at the end of 2011, Daniel Dayan proposed a reduction in his 
own salary of £50,000 per annum, having regard to the reduced 
scale and complexity of the Group. The Remuneration Committee 
accepted his proposal and accordingly, with effect from 1 March 
2012, Daniel Dayan’s base salary will be reduced to £332,000 
per annum.
As mentioned in the announcement issued on 3 January 2012, 
Daniel Abrams will resign as CFO in March 2012. Kate Miles 
will be appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director upon 
Mr Abrams’ departure and her base salary will be £180,000 per 
annum.
benefits in Kind
Benefits in kind for the Executive Directors include private medical 
insurance, personal accident insurance, permanent health 
insurance and life assurance. The Executive Directors are not 
provided with company cars and do not receive a car allowance.
Short-Term Cash based incentives
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Senior 
Management Bonus Scheme under which payments may 
be made based on the achievement of challenging financial 
targets. Appropriate financial targets are set by the Remuneration 
Committee at the beginning of the financial year for which the 
bonus is payable. As described more fully below, for 2011, 50% 
of the bonus opportunity is payable by reference to performance 
in the first six months of the year with the balance payable by 
reference to performance in the second six months of the year. 
For the Executive Directors however the bonus is only paid 
after the end of the financial year once the Committee has 
had an opportunity to consider performance for the full year.  
The Committee is satisfied that given the particular circumstances 
of the Company the approach to bonus payments is appropriate 
and that there is no likelihood that the aggregate size of bonuses 
payable in any year will not reflect overall Group performance for 
that year.
2011 bonuses
For 2011, the Senior Management Bonus Scheme provided an 
incentive opportunity of up to 100% of base salary for Executive 
Directors. Primarily, 70% of the bonus opportunity was based on 
the achievement of profit after tax targets and 30% of the bonus 
opportunity was based on the achievement of return on capital 
targets, with the Committee then considering performance in the 
round to determine what level of bonus (if any) should be paid. For 
achievement of 95% of budgeted performance under both metrics, 
a bonus of 40% of maximum bonus earning potential was payable.  
For achievement of 100% of budgeted performance under both 
metrics, a bonus of 50% of maximum bonus earning potential 
was payable. Budgeted performance was considered to represent 
challenging targets. In order not to reward underachievement, 
no payout occurs for achievement of below 95% of budget 
performance. In 2011, the Company did not achieve 95% of budget 
performance and based on performance against targets and 
taking account of overall performance in the year, no bonuses were 
paid to the Executive Directors.
2012 bonuses
For 2012, the Senior Management Bonus Scheme will provide a 
bonus opportunity of up to 120% of base salary for Daniel Dayan 
and up to 100% of base salary for Kate Miles. The increase in the 
bonus opportunity for Daniel Dayan from 100% in 2011 to 120% 
in 2012 reflects the reduction in base salary mentioned above and 
his pension reduction mentioned below. The bonus opportunity 
will be measured as follows:
q 	 40% of the bonus opportunity will be measured against underlying 
Group EBIT. There will be a payout of 30% of the maximum 
earning under this metric for achievement of budgeted 
performance and a payout of 100% of the maximum earning 
under this metric for achievement of 120% of budgeted 
performance. The payout for performance between budgeted 
performance and 120% of budgeted performance will be 
determined on a straight-line basis. There will be no payout under 
this metric for achievement of below budgeted performance.
q 	 	30% of the bonus opportunity will be measured against Group 
working capital as a percentage of sales. For all divisional 
managers, there will be a payout of 50% of the maximum earning 
under this metric for achievement of budgeted performance. This 
payout will rise on a straight-line basis so that there will be a 
payout of 100% of the maximum earning potential under this 
metric for achievement of working capital as a percentage of 
sales equal to or greater than 3 basis points below budgeted 
performance. There will be no payout for achievement below 
budgeted performance. The payout for the Executive Directors, 
expressed as a percentage of maximum earning under this 
metric, will be the average (weighted by budgeted external sales) 
of the payouts to divisional managers.
q 	 	30% of the bonus opportunity will be measured against 
personal objectives. There will be a payout of 33.33% of the 
maximum earning under this metric if some of the personal 
objectives are met, 66.67% of the maximum earning potential 
under this metric if most of the personal objectives are met and 
100% of the maximum earning potential under this metric if all 
of the personal objectives are met. There will be no payout if 
none of the personal objectives are met. The Remuneration 
Committee reserves the right to determine the level of payout 
to take account of performance, which may result in a payout 
between the thresholds mentioned above.
The Remuneration Committee has ultimate discretion to assess 
the extent of any payout under the Senior Management Bonus 
Scheme. Notwithstanding the above, there will be no bonus payment under 
the EBIT and working capital metrics to any scheme participants if:
q 	 	the Group’s return on operating assets for the second half of 
the year is less than 10%; or
q 	 the Group’s EBIT for the full year is below £15.1 million.
To the extent that the performance measures are met, payments  
will be made to all scheme participants only after the publication 
of the full year results. This approach gives the Committee the 
opportunity to ensure that the total bonus payable for the year 
reflects the full year Group performance before any actual payment 
is made.
Long-Term Share based incentives
Deferred Share Matching Plan (“DSMP”)
Shareholders approved the DSMP in November 2006 at the time 
of the demerger of the Company from BBA Group plc. Under 
the plan, a maximum of 50% of an executive’s net bonus may be 
voluntarily deferred into shares for three years. The deferred shares 
will then be matched at a rate of one to one (on a gross basis).  
The matching awards will vest three years after grant if and to 
the extent that performance targets attached to the awards are 
satisfied. The detailed targets will be discussed and communicated 
to shareholders in advance of such awards being made.  
No matching awards have so far been made under the DSMP.
Long-Term incentive Plan (“LTiP”)
Shareholders also approved the LTIP in November 2006.  
In summary, under the LTIP, awards over shares with a face value 
of up to 100% of annual salary (200% in exceptional circumstances) 
can be made to Executive Directors in each financial year which (in 
normal circumstances) vest three years after grant, subject to the 
achievement of stretching performance conditions. The exercise 
period in respect of the award expires one year thereafter.
Awards under the LTIP were granted to senior managers  
(including the Executive Directors) in 2006, 2008, 2009 and 2011. 
No awards were granted during 2007 and 2010.
The 2008, 2009 and 2011 awards are subject to total shareholder 
return (“TSR”) and earnings per share (“EPS”) targets. For the 2008 
awards the TSR target was based on absolute total shareholder 
return (see table below) as the Committee considered at the 
relevant time that this was more appropriate in the circumstances 
and provided greater alignment with shareholder interests than 
a relative measure of performance. The EPS target for the 2008 
awards measures EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 
2007 against EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 
2010. For the 2009 and 2011 awards the TSR target is based on 
Fiberweb’s performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 
SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts).The EPS target for the 
2009 awards measures EPS for the financial year ended 31 Events 
will be December 2008 against EPS for the financial year ended  
31 December 2011 and for the 2011 awards measures EPS for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2011 against EPS for the 
financial year ending 31 December 2014 (see table below).
These performance conditions were chosen to provide a  
balanced long-term incentive for senior executives to generate both 
above market returns to shareholders and strong levels of EPS growth.
These awards vest as shown in the table below. Sliding scale 
straight line vesting occurs for performance between the relevant 
threshold and maximum targets. LTIP awards (and DSMP awards 
if and when granted) do not have a “re-testing” facility. If the 
performance conditions are not met at the end of the relevant 
performance period, the awards will lapse.
The assessment of fulfilment of the TSR target and relevant TSR 
calculations will be undertaken by independent remuneration 
advisers. The Company’s external auditors will verify the 
Committee’s calculation of the extent to which the EPS targets 
have been met. These methods have been chosen to ensure that 
  Proportion of award  
  subject to relevant  
 Performance condition performance condition  How award vests
   2008 Normal LTiP Award
 T otal Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests if the Company’s absolute TSR (defined 
as the Company’s average share price over the last 90 days of the performance 
period, adjusted to reflect capital adjustments and the value of dividends 
declared over the performance period) is £0.80 and full vesting occurs at £1.50. 
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests if annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period is RPI plus 25% and full vesting occurs 
at RPI plus 35%.
   2009 Normal LTiP Award
 T otal Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant and full vesting occurs at the upper quartile.
 Earnings Per Share 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests if annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period is RPI plus 15% and full vesting occurs 
at RPI plus 25%.
   2011 Normal LTiP Award
 T otal Shareholder Return 50%  30% of this portion of the award vests at the median versus the FTSE SmallCap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) over a three year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant and full vesting occurs at the upper quartile. 
 Earnings Per Share 50%   30% of this portion of the award vests if annual average adjusted EPS growth 
over a three year performance period is RPI plus 7% and full vesting occurs at 
RPI plus 15%.
48     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    49  
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2011, of £100 invested in Fiberweb 
plc on 1 January 2007 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small 
Cap (excluding investment trusts) Index. The other points plotted are the values 
at intervening financial year-ends.
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Value (£)
  Jan-07             Dec-07                Dec-08                Dec-09                 Dec-10               Dec-11 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Source: Thomson Reuters
Fiberweb plc            FTSe Small Cap (excluding investment trusts) index
• •
the assessment and verification of targets are independent and are 
therefore considered fair in the circumstances.
After the publication of results for the year ended 31 December 
2010, it was confirmed that the 2008 LTIP awards vested in part due 
to full achievement of the EPS target to which 50% of this award 
was made subject and 55.48% achievement of the TSR target to 
which the other 50% of this award was made subject.
Accordingly:
q 	 	 the award of 857,143 shares granted to Daniel Dayan on 12 May 
2008, which was subsequently adjusted to 1,054,286 shares to 
take account of the rights offer implemented in 2011, vested in 
respect of 819,180 shares with the remaining 235,106 shares 
lapsing. Daniel Dayan exercised his award in respect of 819,180 
shares on 18 November 2011, on which date the mid-market 
price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share was 52.50p. The gain 
made by Daniel Dayan on exercise of the award was therefore 
approximately £430,061.
q 	 	 the award of 476,190 shares granted to Daniel Abrams on 
12 May 2008, which was subsequently adjusted to 585,714 
shares to take account of the rights offer implemented in 2011, 
vested in respect of 455,100 shares with the remaining 130,614 
shares lapsing. Daniel Abrams exercised his award in respect 
of 455,100 shares on 18 November 2011, on which date the 
mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share was 52.50p. 
The gain made by Daniel Abrams on exercise of the award was 
therefore approximately £238,928.
Further details of this award are set out in Table 3 on page 51.
At the date of this report a detailed analysis of the likely vesting of 
the 2009 and 2011 awards had not yet been conducted.
At its meeting on 28 February 2012, the Remuneration Committee 
approved in principle the grant of awards under the LTIP to senior 
managers (including the Executive Directors). The 2012 awards will 
be subject to total shareholder return (“TSR”), earnings per share 
(“EPS”) and return on operating assets (RoOA) targets. The TSR 
target is based on Fiberweb’s performance relative to the constituents 
of the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts). The EPS 
target measures EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 
2012 against EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2014. 
The RoOA target measures the growth in return on operating assets 
over the three year performance period.
The performance targets applied to future awards will be set by 
the Committee taking into account the outlook for the Company 
at that time and will be fully disclosed in the relevant Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. In addition, the Committee will regularly 
review the operation of the Company’s share based incentive 
arrangements in light of the circumstances and prospects of the 
Company as they develop and emerging trends in market and 
best practice.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP are 
set out in Table 3 on page 51.
executive Share Option Plan (“eSOP”)
The Company established the ESOP following shareholder 
approval in November 2006. Under the ESOP, the normal 
maximum grant limit will be 150% of salary per annum (200%  
in exceptional circumstances). Options will vest after three years, 
subject to the achievement of performance conditions that  
are deemed appropriate at the time of grant and that will be 
communicated to shareholders before grants are made.  
No grants were made under the ESOP during the year.
Performance Graph
The following graph shows the Company’s performance 
measured by Total Shareholder Return from 1 January 2007 until 
31 December 2011, compared with the equivalent information for 
the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts).
This index has been selected because it is a broad-based equity 
market index of which the Company is a constituent.
  Total shareholder return
As required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the chart  
above shows the Company’s total shareholder return performance 
over the last five financial years against a broad equity market 
index. The chart shows the value of a notional investment of 
£100 in Fiberweb plc shares on 1 January 2007 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap (excluding 
investment trusts) Index on the same date. It assumes that 
any dividends receivable on the notional shares are reinvested 
in further shares on the ex-dividend date and it shows the 
value of this notional shareholding at each financial year-end  
(to 31 December 2011) and therefore does not show actual 
share prices on these dates. The approach used in the chart is 
consistent with that prescribed in the Regulations and therefore 
differs slightly from that used to determine TSR performance 
under the LTIP. 
Fiberweb’s Total Shareholder return performance under 
the May 2008 LTiP
This graph shows Fiberweb’s TSR over the performance period for the May 2008 
LTIP awards. This performance resulted in 55.48% achievement of the TSR target 
to which 50% of this award was made subject. The other performance condition 
for the May 2008 LTIP awards was based on EPS growth which vested in full.
0 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 
120 
140 
160 
12-May-08 12-Nov-08 12-May-09 12-Nov-09 12-May-10 12-Nov-10 
Pence 
30% of the TSR element of the award vests if the share price 
plus the value of dividends reinvested is equal to 80 pence 
100% of the TSR element of the award vests if the share price 
plus the value of dividends reinvested is at least 150 pence 
Fiberweb’s 90 day average share price plus the 
value of dividends reinvested over the 
performance period 
This graph shows Fiberweb's TSR over the performance period for the May 
2008 LTIP awards.  This performance resulted in 55.48% achievement of the 
TSR target to which 50% of this award was made subject.  The other 
performance condition for the May 2008 LTIP awards was based on EPS 
growth which vested in full.
12-May-11   Table 1  emoluments and fees (audited) for the year ended 31 December 2011 
  Base Salary Benefits Pension Annual Total Total 
  and fees in Kind Contributions  Bonus 2011 2010 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
 Director  Note 1    
 M Coster 120  –  –    –  120  120 
 D Dayan 381  3  95  283 762  757 
 D Abrams 226  5  34  164  429  422 
 S Dryden 38   –   –  –   38  38
 R Stillwell  38   –   –   –  38  38 
 B Taylorson 32   –  –   –  32  32 
 
 Notes:
 1.   Benefits in kind for Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
 2.  The bonuses paid to Daniel Dayan and Daniel Abrams related to 2010 performance. No bonuses for 2011 performance have been or will be paid.
Directors’ shareholdings
The interests (beneficial and family interests) of the Directors in office at 31 December 2011 in the ordinary share capital of the Company 
were as follows:
 Table 2
  Ordinary 5p shares
 
 Director At 1 January 2011  31 December 2011
 M Coster 495,702 700,393
 D Dayan 1,160,674 2,039,686
 D Abrams 444,537 846,070
 R Stillwell 127,500 169,999
 S Dryden 10,000 10,000
 B Taylorson 6,000 48,000
  
 Notes:
 1.  There were no changes in Directors’ interests in the share capital between 31 December 2011 and 29 February 2012.
 2.  No Fiberweb ordinary shares were held in the Fiberweb Employee Benefit Trust as at 31 December 2011.
Pension Arrangements
In 2011 the Company made pension contributions at a rate of 25% 
of base salary to Daniel Dayan which was invested in a defined 
contribution scheme nominated by him. Daniel Abrams also received 
a pension contribution at the rate of 15% of base salary which was 
invested in a defined contribution scheme nominated by him.  
In addition, each director fulfilled a contractual obligation to contribute 
at least 7.5% of their salary to the Company defined contribution 
scheme. Details of Company pension contributions made in respect 
of the directors during the year under review are set out in Table 1. 
With effect from 1 March 2012, Mr Dayan’s entitlement to a pension 
supplement will be reduced in line with his reduction in base salary 
by about £12,500 per annum so that his pension contribution  
will continue to be made at a rate of 25% of base salary. Mr Dayan  
will no longer be required to pay into the Company defined 
contribution scheme. Kate Miles will be entitled to a pension 
contribution of 10% of base salary and will contribute at least  
7.5% of her base salary to the Company defined contribution 
scheme.
50     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    51  
Awards under Long-Term incentive Plan (“LTiP”) – (audited)
The awards are to be satisfied through a mixture of shares 
purchased in the market and newly issued shares. In accordance 
with the ABI guidelines, the Company operates a 10% in 10 year 
dilution limit for all its share schemes and a 5% in 10 year limit for 
discretionary schemes.
Service Contracts
Daniel Dayan’s service contract dated 27 October 2006 provides 
for 12 months’ notice by either party. In the event of early 
termination by the Company other than for cause, the Company 
may elect to make a single payment in lieu of notice or to make 
the payment in three instalments. The payment will include  
base salary, an assessment of lost bonus opportunity and 
benefits and, to the extent prescribed by the relevant plan rules, 
share award entitlements. If the payment is made in instalments, 
the first instalment is payable on termination and will comprise 
six months’ payment in lieu of notice (calculated to include  
the remuneration elements described above). The second 
and third payments will comprise three months’ notice each.  
The second payment will be made six months after termination 
and the third payment will be made nine months after termination. 
To recognise the duty to mitigate loss the second and  
third instalments will be reduced to take into account the 
remuneration paid pursuant to any alternative employment 
obtained by the executive director prior to such payments 
becoming due.
 Table 3
          Awards at 
    Awards at the Award Exercise Release   31 December
    start of the year Date Price Date Vested  Lapsed 2011
 D Dayan 857,143 12.05.08 Nil-cost The third  819,180 235,106 nil 
       anniversary of     
       the date of grant
    571,870 26.06.09 Nil-cost The third  – – 703,400
       anniversary of   (see note 3 below) 
       the date of grant
    – 03.05.11   Nil-cost The third  – – 488,449
       anniversary of     
       the date of grant
 
 D Abrams       476,190 12.05.08   Nil-cost The third  455,100 130,614 nil
       anniversary of    
       the date of grant
    332,302 26.06.09 Nil-cost The third  – – 408,731
       anniversary of   (see note 3 below) 
       the date of grant
    – 03.05.11 Nil-cost The third  – – 283,828
       anniversary of    
       the date of grant 
 Notes:
 1.   The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share on 12 May 2008 was 45p. The average middle market quotation for the five day period immediately 
preceding the date of the 2008 awards was 41.75p. In accordance with the Plan rules the price used to determine the number of nil- cost awards made 
to the Executive Directors on 12 May 2008 was 42p.
 2.    The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share on 26 June 2009 was 69.25p. The average middle market quotation for the five day period 
immediately preceding the date of the 2009 awards was 64.70p. In accordance with the Plan rules the price used to determine the number of nil-cost 
awards made to the Executive Directors on 26 June 2009 was 64.70p.
 3.  The awards dated 26 June 2009 were adjusted by a factor of 1.23 to take account of the rights offer which took place on 18 March 2011.
 4.   The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary share on 3 May 2011 was 73p. The average middle market quotation for the five day period immediately 
preceding the date of the 2011 awards was 75.75 pence. In accordance with the Plan rules the price used to determine the number of nil-cost awards 
made to the Executive Directors on 3 May 2011 was 75.75p.
 5.   The mid-market price of a Fiberweb plc ordinary 5p share on 30 December 2011 was 53.50p (2010: 93.75p). In the period from 4 January 2011 to  
31 December 2011 the highest and lowest prices for Fiberweb shares were 106.50p (2010: 93.75p) and 39.25p (2010: 49.25p) respectively.
 6.  Details of the performance conditions applying to these awards are set out on page 48. 52    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Kate Miles’ service contract will provide for 12 months’ notice 
by either party. In the event of early termination by the Company 
other than for cause, the Company may elect to make a single 
payment in lieu of notice or to make the payment by monthly 
instalments. The payment will include base salary, benefits and, 
to the extent prescribed by the relevant plan rules, share award 
entitlements. To recognise the duty to mitigate loss the monthly 
instalments will be reduced to take into account the remuneration 
paid pursuant to any alternative employment obtained by the 
executive director prior to such payments becoming due.
No provision is made for any termination payment in the event of 
early termination for cause and the Committee is conscious of the 
need to protect the Company against the risk of making payments 
in the event of failure whilst having regard to the Company’s legal 
obligations.
Under the terms of a compromise agreement between the 
Company and Daniel Abrams dated 9 January 2012, Mr Abrams’ 
service contract dated 1 February 2008 and his employment by 
the Company will terminate on 31 March 2012.
Mr Abrams is entitled under his service contract to 12 months’ 
notice. As he has remained an employee for 3 months of his 
notice period, he will receive a payment in lieu of notice of the 
balance of 9 months in accordance with his contract and which 
will be paid in two instalments:
q 	 	£173,573.49, which shall be paid within 28 days of the date of 
termination of employment; and
q 	 	£86,786.75, less any income and benefits Mr Abrams has 
derived or could reasonably expect to derive from any 
alternative employment up to and including 31 December 
2012, which shall be paid during October 2012. 
Mr Abrams is subject to an ongoing duty to mitigate by actively 
seeking alternative employment.
Mr Abrams will also receive his salary, holiday pay and benefits up 
to and including 31 March 2012 in accordance with his contract 
and an amount of £30,000 (which includes statutory redundancy) 
as compensation for loss of employment and in respect of UK 
statutory employment rights which shall be paid within 28 days 
of the date of termination of employment. The Company also 
made a contribution to Mr Abram’s legal fees capped at £3,000 in 
connection with his termination arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee determined that no bonus should 
be awarded to Mr Abrams for 2011. Under his service contract 
he is contractually entitled to a bonus of £20,532.50 for the period  
1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012 and this will be paid in April 2012.
Mr Abrams’ 2009 LTIP awards shall vest in accordance with the 
rules of the LTIP if and to the extent that the relevant performance 
targets are met. Only 50% of his 2011 LTIP awards shall vest in 
accordance with the rules of the LTIP, and only if and to the extent 
that the relevant performance targets are met.
Policy on external Directorships
The Board believes that the experience gained by Executive 
Directors through their involvement with other companies could 
be of benefit to the individual director and the Company. 
Executive Directors are, with the Board’s permission, allowed to 
accept one such appointment, as long as there is no conflict of 
interest and the time commitment involved does not undermine 
the performance of their duties at the Company. The executive 
director may keep the fees from his external appointment. 
Neither of the Executive Directors currently holds a non-executive 
appointment.
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
The original appointment of the Chairman was for a period expiring 
at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2010. His letter of 
appointment dated 19 October 2006 and amended by a letter dated 
29 October 2009 has been extended by a letter dated 29 April 2010 
until the close of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 
2013. His appointment letters are available for inspection on request.
The appointment of each of Richard Stillwell and Brian Taylorson 
as Non-Executive Directors was for an initial term of three 
years effective from the date of demerger in November 2006.  
The letters of appointment of Richard Stillwell and Brian Taylorson 
are dated 19 October 2006 and their appointments have been 
extended by letters each dated 29 April 2010 until the close of 
the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013. The letter 
of appointment of Stephen Dryden as a Non-Executive Director is 
dated 27 May 2009 and his appointment is for a period of three 
years from 1 June 2009 until 31 May 2012. The current letters 
of appointment for all the Non-Executive Directors are available 
for inspection on request. The Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in any Company’s pension arrangements or incentive 
plans. Appointments can be terminated by either party on three 
months’ notice or compensation, and six months’ notice or 
compensation in the case of the Chairman.
The level of fees for the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the 
Chairman and the Executive Directors. The Chairman’s fees are 
determined by the Board as a whole on the recommendation 
of the Remuneration Committee after consulting with the Chief 
Executive Officer. Fees are in line with current market practice of 
comparable organisations and are set taking account of the time 
commitment and responsibility of each Non-Executive Director. 
The Chairman’s base annual fee is £120,000 per annum having 
been increased by £10,000 per annum on 1 November 2009. 
The base annual fee for Non-Executive Directors is £32,000. 
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees each 
receive an annual supplement of £6,000 in recognition of the 
increased commitment placed upon them in performing their 
roles. Richard Stillwell does not receive an additional supplement 
for his role as Senior Independent Director.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have been 
regularly reviewed and remained unchanged during 2011. Details 
of Non-Executive Directors’’ fees for 2011 are set out in Table 1 
on page 50.
This report was approved by the Board on 29 February 2012 and 
is signed on its behalf by:
 
 
 
Richard Stillwell
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    53  
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). Under company law the directors must not approve the 
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss 
of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
q 	 	select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
q 	 	 make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
q 	 	state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
q 	 	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
q 	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
q 	 	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
q 	 	provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
q 	 	 make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
q 	 	the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
q 	 	the management report, which is incorporated into the 
directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
D Dayan   D Abrams 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
29 February 2012  29 February 2012
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Fiberweb plc
We have audited the group financial statements of Fiberweb 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income and the related notes 1 
to 34. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all 
the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the group financial statements:
q 	 	give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2011 and of its results for the year then ended;
q 	 	have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
q 	 	have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to iFrSs as issued by the iASb
As explained in note 2 to the group financial statements, the group 
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
q 	 	certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
q 	 	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
q 	 	 the directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ Report, 
in relation to going concern; 
q 	 	the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
q 	 	certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited. 
John Adam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, UK
29 February 2012
54    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    55  
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011
      (Restated)
(1)
 
  2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010
  Underlying* Note 5 Total   Underlying* Note 5 Total
 Note £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
revenue 3 297.8 – 297.8 269.2 – 269.2
Cost of sales  (232.7) (2.7) (235.4) (200.9) 0.1 (200.8)
Gross profit  65.1 (2.7) 62.4 68.3 0.1 68.4
       
Distribution costs  (28.9) – (28.9) (26.2) – (26.2)
Administrative expenses  (27.2) 5.2 (22.0) (21.9) (3.7) (25.6)
Other operating income 4 1.8 – 1.8 0.8 – 0.8
Share of results of associates 
and joint ventures  – – – (0.1) (0.6) (0.7)
Restructuring costs 5 – (4.6) (4.6) – 0.6 0.6
Operating profit/(loss) 
from continuing operations 3,4,5 10.8 (2.1) 8.7 20.9 (3.6) 17.3
       
Finance costs 6 (15.9) – (15.9) (14.8) – (14.8)
(Loss)/profit before tax  (5.1) (2.1) (7.2) 6.1 (3.6) 2.5
       
Income tax on operations 7 0.8 0.4 1.2 (3.7) – (3.7)
Recognition of deferred tax 7 3.0 – 3.0 3.6 –  3.6
Tax   3.8 0.4 4.2 (0.1) – (0.1)
(Loss)/profit for the year from 
continuing operations  (1.3) (1.7) (3.0) 6.0 (3.6) 2.4
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
discontinued operations  12.9 (1.1) 11.8 7.3 (2.5) 4.8
  11.6 (2.8) 8.8 13.3 (6.1) 7.2
       
Attributable to:       
Equity holders of the parent  11.6 (2.8) 8.8 13.3 (6.1) 7.2
 
* Underlying trading results before restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items as set out in  
note 5 to the consolidated financial statements
earnings per share, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent
Continuing operations:       
Basic 9   (1.8)p   1.8p
(1)
Diluted 9   (1.8)p   1.7p
(1)
From continuing and  
discontinued operations:
Basic 9   5.3p    5.4p
Diluted 9   5.3p    5.2p
Adjusted earnings
(2) 
per share, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent
Continuing operations:       
Basic 9   (0.8)p   4.5p
(1)
Diluted 9   (0.8)p   4.4p
(1)
From continuing and  
discontinued operations:
Basic 9   7.0p   9.9p
Diluted 9   7.0p   9.7p
(1)  
Restated following the disposal of the Hygiene business which is classified as a discontinued operation (note 30).
(2)  
Adjusted earnings per share are shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other 
non-recurring items because the directors regard this as providing additional useful information on trends in underlying performance. 
Before recognition of deferred tax assets of £3.0 million (2010: £3.6 million), adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations are 
(2.6)p (2010:1.8p).
Comparative figures for earnings per share have been restated to take account of the impact of the rights issue.      2011 2010
(1)
         Note  £’m £’m
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations        (3.0) 2.4
Profit for the year from discontinued operations        11.8 4.8
Foreign exchange transferred from reserves to profit on disposal of businesses   30  (32.9) –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations        2.7 3.4
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes      23  (9.3) (1.2)
Cash flow hedges:    
  – (Losses)/gains arising during the period          (1.9) 2.6
  – Less: reclassification adjustments for losses/(gains) included in profit       5.5 (1.4)
Tax on items recognised directly in equity          4.4 0.2
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year         (22.7) 10.8
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the parent          (22.7) 10.8
From continuing operations          (1.3) 12.6
From discontinued operations          (21.4) (1.8)
(1)  
Restated following the disposal of the Hygiene business which is classified as a discontinued operation (note 30).
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2011
56    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    57  
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2011
         2011 2010 
        Note £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets:      
 Goodwill        11 40.2 34.7
 Other        11 5.0 1.9
Property, plant and equipment        12 90.3 214.2
Investments in associates and joint ventures       13 – 55.4
Other investments        14 – 0.3
Deferred tax assets        24 14.4 18.2
          149.9 324.7
Current assets      
Inventories        15 40.9  49.4
Trade and other receivables        16 64.2  76.6
Cash and cash equivalents        16 182.3  26.1
Assets held for sale        16 –  15.0
          287.4  167.1
TOTAL ASSeTS         437.3  491.8
      
Current liabilities      
Trade and other payables        17 (53.4)  (68.8)
Tax liabilities         (8.8)  (8.3)
Obligations under finance leases        18 (0.3)  –
Bank overdrafts and loans        20 (159.9)  (7.6)
Provisions        22 (5.8)  (4.7)
          (228.2)  (89.4)
Net current assets         59.2  77.7
      
Non-current liabilities      
Obligations under finance leases        18 (0.1)  –
Bank loans        20 –  (169.7)
Retirement benefit obligations        23 (26.5)  (35.5)
Deferred tax liabilities        24 (3.7) (15.6)
Provisions        22 – (3.0)
          (30.3) (223.8)
TOTAL LiAbiLiTieS         (258.5) (313.2)
      
NeT ASSeTS         178.8 178.6
      
equity      
Share capital         26 8.7 6.1
Share premium account         110.8 84.5
Merger reserve         93.5 93.5
Other reserve         93.1 93.1
Capital reserve         0.8 1.0
Translation reserve         8.7 38.9
Hedging reserve         – (3.6)
Retained earnings          (136.8) (134.9)
equity attributable to equity holders of the parent       178.8 178.6
TOTAL eQUiTY         178.8 178.6
      
These consolidated financial statements of Fiberweb plc, registered number 05683352, were approved by the Board of Directors on  
29 February 2012 and signed on its behalf by
D Dayan    D Abrams
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011
  2011 2010  
 Note £’m £’m
Operating activities
Net cash flows from operating activities 29 20.5 37.7
investing activities   
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (22.6) (33.0) 
Purchase of intangible assets  (0.8) (0.2)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  18.3 1.9
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 30 (7.9) –
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 13 1.6 –
Net proceeds on disposal of businesses 30 161.2 –
Additional investment in joint venture  (0.3) 
Interest received  – 0.1
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities  149.5 (31.2)
   
Financing activities    
Interest paid  (9.4) (8.0)
Facility fees paid  – (4.8)
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (6.0) (5.2)
Cash paid on foreign exchange forward contracts carried at fair value through profit or loss  (1.2) –
Repayment of interest rate swap break costs  (1.8) (0.9)
(Repayment)/drawdown of external loans  (18.8) 16.5
Decrease in finance leases  (0.4) (1.5)
Proceeds from rights issue, net of costs  23.8 –
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (13.8) (3.9)
    
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  156.2 2.6
Foreign exchange differences  – 1.5
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  26.1 22.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  182.3 26.1
    
Net debt at beginning of year  (151.2) (136.6)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents  156.2 2.6
Increase in external loans  – (16.5)
Decrease in external loans  18.8 –
Crystallisation of interest rate swap break liabilities  – (5.4)
Interest rate swap break liability repaid  1.8 0.9
Facility fees paid  – 4.8
Facility fees amortised  (3.3) (1.2)
Decrease in finance leases  0.4 1.5
Gross debt acquired  (1.8) –
Foreign exchange differences  1.1 (1.3)
Net cash/(debt) at end of year  22.0 (151.2)
     
Comprising:     
Bank loans  (160.5) (181.2)
Less: unamortised prepaid facility fees  0.6 3.9
Bank loans 20 (159.9) (177.3)
Finance leases 18 (0.4) –
Cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts)  182.3 26.1
Net cash/(debt) at end of year  22.0 (151.2)
     
Cash and cash equivalents 16 182.3 26.1
Less: bank overdrafts 16, 20 – –
Net cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes   16 182.3 26.1
    
 
58    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    59  
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2011
  equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  
  Share Share Merger Other Capital Hedging  Translation Retained Total
  Capital Premium Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings equity
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2010  6.1 84.5 93.5 93.1 1.2 (4.8) 35.5 (136.5) 172.6
Profit for the year  – – – – – – – 7.2 7.2
Other comprehensive income  
for the year  – – – – – 1.2 3.4 (1.0) 3.6
Total comprehensive income  
for the year  – – – – – 1.2 3.4 6.2 10.8
Transfer to income:          
Share option costs  – – – – (0.2) – – 0.6 0.4
Dividends paid  – – – – – – – (5.2) (5.2) 
At 31 December 2010  6.1 84.5 93.5 93.1 1.0 (3.6) 38.9 (134.9) 178.6
Profit for the year  – – – – – – – 8.8 8.8
Other comprehensive income  
for the year  – – – – – 3.6 (30.2) (4.9) (31.5)
Total comprehensive  
income for the year  – – – – – 3.6 (30.2) 3.9 (22.7)
Transfer to income:          
Share option costs  – – – – (0.1) – – 0.2 0.1
Shares issued for acquisition  0.3 4.6 – – – – – – 4.9 
of subsidiary
Rights Issue  2.2 21.7 – – – – – – 23.9
Shares issued to satisfy LTIP awards 0.1 – – – (0.1) – – – –
Dividends paid  – – – – – – – (6.0) (6.0)
At 31 December 2011  8.7 110.8 93.5 93.1 0.8 – 8.7 (136.8) 178.8
      1. General information
Fiberweb plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom 
on 22 January 2006 under the Companies Act 2006. The Fiberweb 
Group (“Fiberweb” or “the Group”) is an international Group of 
businesses dedicated to the development, manufacturing and 
supply of specialist nonwoven fabrics.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because that is the currency of the ultimate parent company. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies 
set out in note 2.
Disposal of Hygiene business
The disposal of the hygiene business completed on 30 December 
2011 (see note 30). Comparatives have been restated to present 
the hygiene business disposed as a discontinued operation.
2. Accounting policies
basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on an 
historical cost basis, adjusted for certain derivative financial 
instruments which are stated at fair value. 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Policies (“UK GAAP”).
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
going concern basis as explained in the Directors’ Report on 
pages 38 to 40.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”). The financial statements have also been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union (“EU”) 
and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 
4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
Adoption of new and revised Standards
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards 
and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the 
amounts reported in these financial statements.
q 	 	Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
q 	 Elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009
q 	 Elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010
q 	 	Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations
q 	 Revisions to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
q 	 Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation; and
q 	 	 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts 
reported in these financial statements but may impact the 
accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following 
Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these 
financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and in some 
cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
q 	 Certain elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010
q 	 	 IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum 
Funding Requirements and their Interaction
q 	 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
The directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards 
and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on 
the financial statements of the Group.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following revised 
Standards and Interpretations or amendments that are not yet 
effective:
q 	 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement
q 	 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
q 	 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
q 	 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities
q 	 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
q 	 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
q 	 Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes
q 	 IAS 19 Employee Benefits
q 	 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (revised May 2011)
q 	 	IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (revised 
May 2011)
The principal accounting policies used in the preparation of these 
financial statements are detailed below. These accounting policies, 
presentation and methods of computation have been consistently 
applied to all periods presented.
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business 
that represents a separate major line of business or geographical 
area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is 
a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Classification 
of a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the 
operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier. 
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the 
comparative income statement is represented as if the operation 
had discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Fiberweb. Control exists 
when Fiberweb has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain economic 
benefit from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries 
are included in the Group’s financial statements from the date 
that control commences until the date that control ceases in 
accordance with the acquisition method of accounting. Where 
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than 
subsidiary or joint venture undertakings where the Group is in 
a position to exercise a significant influence, typically through 
the participation in the financial and operating decisions of the 
investee. Investments in associated undertakings are stated at 
cost, plus the Group’s share of post-acquisition reserves, less 
dividends received and provision for impairment.
Joint ventures are those entities other than subsidiary or associated 
undertakings where the Group is deemed to have joint control over 
the financial and operating policies of the entity. This is usually 
contractual. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using 
the equity method under IAS 31 and therefore are treated as 
investments in associated undertakings (above) upon consolidation.
basis of combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group 
in exchange for control of the acquire. The acquiree’s identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2011
60    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    61  
2.  Accounting Policies continued
for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the 
acquisition date. Costs attributable to the business combination are 
expensed as incurred for acquisitions post 1 January 2010 following 
the adoption of IFRS 3 (revised).
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and 
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, 
the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is either initially 
measured at fair value at the acquisition date, or at its proportionate 
interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of 
the acquiree. 
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of fair value of the 
consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired, 
is capitalised and tested for impairment on an annual basis, or 
more frequently when there is an indication that there may be an 
impairment. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the combination. If the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce 
the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then 
to the other assets of the unit. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled 
entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition 
to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill 
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been 
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent 
profit or loss on disposal.
Segmental reporting
The Group’s primary reporting segments are defined according to 
markets served: Technical Fabrics and Geosynthetics. Fiberweb 
manages the trading results of individual reporting entities and 
operational sites analysed by the specific markets they serve. 
Segmentation of assets and liabilities is on a reporting entity 
basis, as reported to the Fiberweb Executive.
Prior to the disposal of the Hygiene business, the Group’s primary 
reporting segments were Hygiene and Industrial.
revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable. Group revenue represents amounts 
receivable for goods supplied by the Group in the normal course 
of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes 
and excluding intercompany transactions and sales by associated 
undertakings. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
research and development expenditure 
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year 
in which it is incurred. An internally-generated intangible asset 
arising from the Group’s development expenditure is recognised 
only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable that the 
asset will generate future economic benefits and the development 
costs of the asset can be measured reliably. 
Share-based payments 
Fiberweb operates share-based compensation plans which are 
detailed in note 25. The equity-settled share-based payments 
under these schemes are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on 
a straight line basis over the vesting period based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
No expense is recognised (and any previously recognised 
expense is reversed) for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except where vesting is conditional upon a measure linked to 
Fiberweb plc’s share price (“a market condition”) or other market 
conditions. The likelihood of achieving the market condition is 
taken into account in the fair value and, therefore, the award 
is treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market 
condition is satisfied, provided that any other performance 
condition is met.
When an award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the 
date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cost of share-based compensation schemes is recognised 
as an expense within staff costs in the income statement (see 
note 10). 
Leases 
The group as lessor
Rental income from operating leases is recognised in income on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease, unless another 
systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which 
use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished. Initial direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are 
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised 
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The group as lessee
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights 
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as 
if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are 
shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values of 
the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter 
of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets 
concerned. The capital elements of future leases are recorded as 
liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the income 
statement over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate 
of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding. 
For all other leases (operating leases), the rental payments are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the 
lives of the leases.
Post-retirement benefits 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are 
charged as an expense as they fall due. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is 
determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out annually on 31 December. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they 
occur. They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in 
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested.  2.  Accounting Policies continued
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced 
by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of 
available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined by 
valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries. In certain 
overseas subsidiaries, to comply with local legislation and to obtain 
taxation advantages, provision is made for the total actuarial liability 
less the current surrender value of the supporting investment. 
Treasury 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the 
rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance 
sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that 
date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates 
subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the income 
statement. Where monetary assets and liabilities have been 
designated effective hedges against net investments in foreign 
operations, the exchange gains and losses arising on those assets 
and liabilities are taken directly to reserves.
The income statements of overseas operations are translated  
into Sterling at the average exchange rates for the year and  
their balance sheets are translated into Sterling at the exchange 
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences 
arising on consolidation are taken to reserves, subject to the 
requirements of IAS 21 “The Effect of Changes in Foreign 
Exchange Rates”. All other translation differences are taken to the 
income statement. 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise 
foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity 
derivatives. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to 
manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in 
line with the Group’s risk management policies. The Group 
designates these derivatives as either hedges of highly probable 
forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm 
commitments (cash flow hedges) or hedges of investments in 
foreign operations. 
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair 
value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments 
depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and 
the type of exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that 
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in 
equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in the 
same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item. 
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the 
gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from 
equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the 
asset or liability. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the 
hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that 
time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast 
transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 
gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for 
similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
Gains or losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve 
are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. 
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and 
after the share of results of associates and joint ventures, but before 
investment income and finance costs (see note 4).
Underlying earnings
The Company believes that underlying operating profit, underlying 
profit before tax and underlying earnings provide additional useful 
information for shareholders. The term underlying earnings is not a 
defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with 
similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.  
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS 
measures of profit. As the Company has chosen to present an 
alternative earnings per share measure, a reconciliation of this 
alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS 
is given in note 9. To meet the needs of shareholders and other 
external users of the financial statements the presentation of the 
income statement shows clearly, through the use of columns, 
our underlying business performance which provides more useful 
information on underlying trends.
The adjustments made to reported results comprise restructuring 
costs and non-recurring items as set in note 5 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Restructuring costs involve one-off 
incremental items of major expenditure and the Group views them 
as costs associated with investment in the future performance of 
the business and not part of the underlying performance trends of 
the business. Due to their significance and one-off nature, certain 
other items are classified as non-recurring items. The gains and 
losses on these discrete items, such as profits or losses on the 
disposal or impairment of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, 
investments and fixed assets, can have a material impact on the 
absolute amount of and trend in the Group’s operating profit and 
are therefore excluded in arriving at the underlying results. Non-
recurring items also include the ineffective portion of changes in the 
fair value of derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments, 
and fair value gains and losses on derivatives where it is not 
possible to obtain hedge accounting under IAS 39, which could be 
highly volatile depending on movements in exchange rates, interest 
yields or commodity prices. This volatility will not be reflected in 
the cash flows of the Group which will be determined by the fixed 
or hedged rate and accordingly is excluded from the underlying 
performance measures to reflect the cash flows that occur under 
the Group’s hedging arrangements.
Following the acquisition of Boddingtons International Limited  
(see note 30), the policy on underlying operating profit and 
underlying earnings per share has been clarified to exclude the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles arising on the acquisition of 
a business as it is not considered to be relevant to the underlying 
performance of the Group.
62    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    63  
2.  Accounting Policies continued
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes 
into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases in the 
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. 
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted 
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where 
the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference 
is not foreseeable. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or 
part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except 
when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance sheet at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment. 
Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of property, plant 
and equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on 
a straight line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the 
assets:
Land  not depreciated
Building 40 years maximum
Plant and Machinery  
(including essential commissioning costs) 3–15 years
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised 
within Plant and Machinery. 
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of 
major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part 
of those assets. The commencement of capitalisation begins when 
both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred 
and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are 
in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities 
that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete. 
During the year ended 31 December 2011, an average rate of 5.3% 
(2010: 5.2%) was used for the capitalisation of finance costs.
intangible assets excluding goodwill 
Licenses are shown at amortised cost. Amortisation provided on the 
cost of licenses is calculated on a straight line basis over the useful 
life of the licenses. 
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of 
computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset. 
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred 
to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Amortisation is 
provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a straight line 
basis over the useful life of the software. 
The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible 
assets arising on acquisitions. An intangible asset will be recognised 
as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or  
other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably. 
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset, excluding 
goodwill, and is calculated on a straight line basis over the following 
useful economic lives of the assets:
Customer relationships – 8 to 12 years
Technology – 10 years
Brand names and trade names – 10 to 12 years
Non-compete agreements – 3 years
impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding 
goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value 
of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment 
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested for 
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the 
asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to 
sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for 
which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.  
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately, unless the 
relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the 
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss 
been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior 
years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income 
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is 
treated as a revaluation increase. 
inventory 
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion 
of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished 
goods. Cost is calculated on a first in first out basis. Provision is 
made for slow moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Financial assets
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date 
where the purchase or sale of an investment is under contract 
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe  
established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at 
fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets 
classified as at fair value through profit and loss, which are initially 
measured at fair value. 2.  Accounting Policies continued
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial 
assets ‘at fair value through profit and loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held to maturity’ 
investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and 
receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of 
the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. 
As at 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group did not have any ‘held-
to-maturity’ investments or AFS financial assets. The Group does not 
enter into hedge transactions for speculative purposes.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset 
is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:
q 	 	it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the 
near future; or 
q 	 	it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that 
the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or
q 	 	it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging 
instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be 
designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
q 	 	such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise 
arise; or
q 	 	the financial asset forms part of a Group of financial assets or 
financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance 
is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s 
documented risk management or investment strategy, and 
information about the Group is provided internally on that basis; 
or
q 	 	it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or 
liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant 
gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss 
recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest 
earned on the financial asset. 
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market 
are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the 
effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the 
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The one-year Vendor Loan Note issued following the disposal of the 
Hygiene business is classified as an other receivable.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Financial liabilities and equity 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL’ 
or ‘other financial liabilities’.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial 
liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if:
q 	 	it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the 
near future; or
q 	 	it is part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that 
the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or
q 	 	it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging 
instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may 
be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
q 	 	such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise 
arise; or
q 	 	the financial liability forms part of a Group of financial assets or 
financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance 
is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s 
documented risk management or investment strategy, and 
information about the Group is provided internally on that basis; 
or
q 	 	it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or 
liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or 
loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on 
the financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured 
at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised 
costs of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life 
of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct 
issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the profit and 
loss account using the effective interest method and are added to 
the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not 
settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
64    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    65  
3a.  Segmental revenues and results
Year ended 31 December 2011    Technical  Unallocated 
     Fabrics Geosynthetics Corporate Total 
     £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin    234.5 63.3 – 297.8 
Underlying trading profit    23.5 (2.9) (9.8) 10.8
Allocation of global R&D and HSE costs    (2.8) (0.7) 3.5 –
Underlying operating profit    20.7 (3.6) (6.3) 10.8
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles  
and other non-recurring items    1.2 (4.7) 1.4 (2.1)
Segment result from continuing operations     21.9 (8.3) (4.9) 8.7
Finance costs       (15.9)
Loss before tax       (7.2)
Tax        4.2
Loss after tax from continuing operations       (3.0)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations      11.8
  8.8
*Profit after tax includes £7.3 million (2010: £4.1 million) share of results from associates and joint ventures within discontinued operations 
and a loss of £Nil (2010: £0.7 million) within Geosynthetics.
Other information – continuing operations   Technical  Unallocated 
     Fabrics Geosynthetics Corporate Total
     £’m £’m £’m £’m
Underlying operating profit margin %    8.8% (5.7)% – 3.6%
Capital additions    14.6 2.2 0.1 16.9 
Depreciation and amortisation    10.8 0.7 0.8 12.3 
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss    1.0 0.6 – 1.6
2.  Accounting Policies continued
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty 
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are discussed below. 
The judgements used by management in the application of the 
Group’s accounting policies in respect of these key areas of 
estimation are considered to be the most significant. 
Impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets 
Determining whether goodwill or tangible fixed assets are impaired 
requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating 
units to which the goodwill has been allocated or the individual 
assets. The value in use calculation requires the entity to  
estimate future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-
generating unit or asset and a suitable discount rate in order to 
calculate present value. The carrying amount of goodwill and tangible 
fixed assets at the balance sheet date was £40.2 million (2010: £34.7 
million) and £90.3 million (2010: £214.2 million) respectively. 
Details regarding the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying 
value and assumptions used in carrying out the impairment 
reviews are provided in notes 11 and 12. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
Determining the present value of future obligations of pension 
and other post-retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation 
of future mortality rates, future changes in employee benefits 
and length of service. These assumptions are determined in 
association with qualified actuaries. The net pension liability 
related to defined benefit type schemes at the balance sheet 
date was £26.5 million (2010: £35.5 million). Details regarding the 
carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying 
value are provided in note 23. 
3.  Segmental information
Historically the Group’s reportable segments were Hygiene and 
Industrial. Following the disposal of the majority of the businesses 
comprising the Group’s Hygiene Division, two new segments have 
been defined for management reporting purposes: T echnical Fabrics 
and Geosynthetics. The disposed hygiene business has been 
shown as a discontinued operation. Accordingly comparative figures 
for 2010 have been restated as set out below.
Technical Fabrics consists of the former Industrial divisions, 
excluding certain geotextile businesses in the USA which are now 
part of the new Geosynthetics segment, but including the retained 
drier sheet business at Old Hickory and the retained hygiene 
operations in Europe, which form an integral part of our sites at 
Biesheim, France and T erno d’Isola, Italy.
Geosynthetics is made up of the Group’s existing UK-based T erram 
geotextile operations, the Boddingtons and Tubex businesses 
acquired during 2011, and the Group’s geotextile and construction 
businesses in the USA. 3a.  Segmental revenues and results continued
Year ended 31 December 2010 (Restated)   Technical  Unallocated 
    Fabrics Geosynthetics Corporate Total 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Continuing operations
External sales by origin    218.7 50.5 – 269.2 
Underlying trading profit    32.8 (0.9) (11.0) 20.9
Allocation of global R&D and HSE costs (2.7)  (0.6) 3.3 –
Underlying operating profit 30.1 (1.5) (7.7) 20.9
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles 
and other non-recurring items 0.1 (1.0) (2.7) (3.6)
Segment result from continuing operations 30.2 (2.5) (10.4) 17.3
Finance costs    (14.8)
Profit before tax       2.5
Tax           (0.1)
Profit after tax from continuing operations           2.4
Profit after tax from discontinued operations          4.8
           7.2
Other information – continuing operations   Technical  Unallocated 
    Fabrics Geosynthetics Corporate Total
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Underlying operating profit margin %    13.8% (3.0)% – 7.8%
Capital additions    26.0 0.4 0.3 26.7
Depreciation and amortisation    10.5 0.1 0.6 11.2
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss   1.2 – – 1.2
Asset write-downs recognised in profit or loss   0.8 – – 0.8
3b.  Segmental assets and liabilities
 31 December 31 December*
 2011 2010  
 £’m £’m
Assets:   
Technical Fabrics 182.9 193.1
Geosynthetics 30.6 6.4
Consolidated total assets, excluding tax assets and cash 213.5 199.5
Unallocated corporate assets* 223.8 292.3
Consolidated total assets 437.3 491.8
  
Liabilities:   
Technical Fabrics 32.9 58.8
Geosynthetics 8.8 2.7
Segment liabilities, excluding tax liabilities and debt 41.7 61.5
Unallocated corporate liabilities 216.8 251.7
Consolidated total liabilities 258.5 313.2
* Comparative figures include assets and liabilities relating to the disposed hygiene business.
 66    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    67  
3c.  Geographical information
 Year ended 31 December 2011  Year ended 31 December 2010
 external sales  Non-current External sales Non-current
 by origin assets by origin* assets
 (Continuing  (Continuing 
 Group)  Group)
 £’m £’m £’m £’m
United Kingdom 31.6 16.3 19.1 55.6
United States 125.8 52.7 125.2 57.7
Sweden – – – 36.1
Germany 55.4 15.3 54.1 21.7
Italy 41.8 31.5 40.2 79.4
France 40.7 19.5 30.6 20.9
China – – – 34.6
Other
(1)
 2.5 0.2 – 0.5
 297.8 135.5 269.2 306.5
(1) 
Other includes countries which the Group does not consider to be individually material. 
*Restated (see note 1).
As required by IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current assets are shown above excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post 
employment benefit assets, and rights arising under insurance contracts.
3d.  information about major customers
In the continuing Group, no individual customer makes up more than 11% of the Group’s revenue. In the year ended 31 December 2011, 
revenues of £32.8 million (2010: £28.3 million) and £Nil (2010: £Nil) are included within Technical Fabrics and Geosynthetics revenues 
respectively which arose from sales to the Group’s single largest customer. 
4.  Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
 Continuing  Discontinued Total
  2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010  
 Note £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Net foreign exchange gains  0.2 (0.4) – (0.3) 0.2 (0.7)
   
Change in the fair value of derivative instruments  
outstanding at year end and classified as FVTPL  – 0.2 0.7 0.3 0.7 0.5
Other operating income  (1.8) (0.8) (1.1) (1.5) (2.9) (2.3)
Research and development costs  4.5 4.0 3.9 4.6 8.4 8.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 12.3 11.2 14.3 14.5 26.6 25.7
Impairment and write-downs of property,  
plant and equipment 12 1.5 1.7 3.1 – 4.6 1.7
Amortisation of intangible assets  
(included in administration expenses) 11 0.8 0.2 0.4 0.2 1.2 0.4
Impairment and write-downs of intangible assets 11 0.1 – – 0.1 0.1 0.1
Total depreciation and amortisation expense  14.7 13.1 17.8 14.8 32.5 27.9
Total employee costs 10 62.6 58.4 25.3 27.0 87.9 85.4
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense  232.7 200.9 179.7 162.8 412.4 363.7
   
Write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense:   
– underlying  (0.3) 0.3 – – (0.3) 0.3
– non-recurring  – – – – – –
Total write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense  (0.3) 0.3 – – (0.3) 0.3
* Restated (see note 1)
Other operating income for continuing operations of £1.8 million (2010: £0.8 million) comprises government grants, rental income and other 
sundry items.  68    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
4.  Profit/(loss) for the year continued
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
        2011 2010 
        £’m £’m
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and their associates  
for the audit of the company’s annual accounts      0.3 0.2
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and their associates  
for other services to the group  
The audit of the company’s subsidiaries      0.7 0.6
Total audit fees      1.0 0.8
  
Audit related assurance services      0.1 0.1
Other assurance services      0.4 0.4
T axation compliance services      – 0.1
Corporate finance services      1.0 0.3
Total non-audit fees      1.5 0.9
Total      2.5 1.7 
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services were: 
 –  Audit related assurance services of £84,000 (2010: £77,000) in respect of the review of the interim management report;
 –  Other assurance services of £445,000 (2010: £461,000) as reporting accountant in respect of the Hygiene disposal transaction 
completed in December 2011 and the Company’s right issue completed in March 2011. In 2010, this comprised reporting 
accountant services regarding an aborted acquisition opportunity;
 –  £32,000 (2010: £53,000) in respect of taxation services;
 –  £965,000 (2010: £327,000) in respect of Corporate Finance services principally for due diligence services relating to the Hygiene 
disposal transaction, inclusive of work on the sale and purchase agreement. In 2010, fees were related to Corporate Finance 
services principally for due diligence services in connection with the aborted acquisition opportunity; and 
 –  £12,000 (2010: £8,000) in respect of other services.
Details of the company’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another 
supplier and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 43.  
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    69  
5. restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items
   2011 2010*
   £’m £’m
Continuing operations
Cost of sales   (2.7) 0.1
Administrative expenses   5.2 (3.7) 
Other operating income   – – 
Restructuring costs   (4.6) 0.6
Share of results of associates and joint ventures   – (0.6)
Continuing operations – Total   (2.1) (3.6)
* Restated (see note 1) – restructuring costs and other non-recurring items in the discontinued hygiene business are disclosed in note 30.
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items included within statutory operating profit before tax 
in the continuing Group amounted to £2.1 million (2010: £3.6 million). The main items included within this are:
q 	 Year ended 31 December 2011
 Non-recurring cost of sales of £2.7 million comprise:
	 q 	 £0.7 million loss in respect of the ineffective portion of the mark-to-market valuation in respect of polypropylene hedge instruments.
	 q 	 	 Asset impairments of £1.0 million at T erno d’Isola in Italy and £0.6 million recorded in Geosynthetics for obsolete equipment in Wales 
which will not be transferred to the Maldon site.
	 q 	 Additional costs of £0.4 million arising on the sale and leaseback of the Utility plant at Old Hickory, USA.
 Non-recurring credit to administrative expenses of £5.2 million comprises:
	 q 	 	 £0.3 million in respect of transaction costs and related professional fees in connection with the acquisition of Boddingtons and T ubex 
and other potential transactions.
	 q 	 	A curtailment gain and immediate recognition of a past service cost credit of £6.4 million in respect of changes made to benefits 
under the Group’s US post retirement medical benefit schemes.
	 q 	 Amortisation of £0.6 million on the IFRS 3 acquired intangibles arising on the Boddingtons and T ubex acquisitions (see note 30).
	 q 	 In addition, a £0.3 million impairment arose on the Group’s 10% investment in Cordustex (Pty) Limited.
 Restructuring costs of £4.6 million comprise:
	 q 	 	 £2.3 million of restructuring costs for the cost reduction programme as a result of the disposal of the Hygiene business reflecting the 
smaller size of the Group.
	 q 	 	 £3.5 million in respect of the integration of Boddingtons and T ubex with T erram in the Geosynthetics division including the transfer of 
production from T erram’s Pontypool facility to the Geosynthetics facility in Maldon. 
	 q 	 	£1.7 million in respect of the transfer of production from the Königswinter site in Germany to Berlin in T echnical Fabrics.
	 q 	 	£0.1 million in respect of other restructuring activities across the Group offset by a £0.4 million write back of a provision not required 
for Korma. In addition, a £2.6 million gain was recognised on the sale of land and buildings on the Korma site which had been fully 
impaired following the cessation of operations in December 2008.
q 	 Year ended 31 December 2010
 Non-recurring cost of sales of £0.1 million credit comprising:
	 q 	 	£0.7 million gain in respect of the ineffective portion of the mark-to-market valuation adjustment in respect of polypropylene hedge 
instruments in the year ended 31 December 2010.
	 q 	 	 An impairment charge of £0.6 million was recorded on the transfer of the Old Hickory utility plant to assets held for sale to reflect fair 
value less costs to sell (see note 16).
 Non-recurring administrative expenses of £3.7 million comprising:
	 q 	 	 £3.7 million in respect of transaction costs and related professional fees in connection with the acquisition of Boddingtons International 
Limited in January 2011 (see note 30) and an aborted acquisition opportunity.
  Restructuring credit of £0.6 million in respect of a gain of £0.6 million on the disposal of assets that were previously impaired at our Korma 
site in Italy following its closure.
 In addition, Fiberweb’s share of non-recurring items associates and joint ventures comprise:
	 q 	 	 An impairment charge of £0.6 million to write off the cost of investment in the T erram Geosynthetics Private Limited, which is no longer 
considered to be recoverable. 70    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
6.  investment income and finance costs
         2011 2010*
         £’m £’m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts     (8.3) (6.4)
Interest on obligations under finance leases     (0.1) –
T otal interest expense     (8.4) (6.4)
Net finance expense from pension schemes (note 23)   (1.1) (1.3)
Interest capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets (note 12)   0.3 0.7
Other finance costs     (5.4) (5.1)
         (14.6) (12.1)
Fair value losses on interest rate swaps transferred from equity for cash flow hedges of floating rate debt (1.3) (2.7)
Total finance costs from continuing operations   (15.9) (14.8)
* Restated (see note 1).
Other finance costs of £5.4 million (2010: £5.1 million) include normal amortisation of prepaid facility fees of £1.5 million (2010: £1.2 million). 
In addition, a charge of £1.8 million (2010: £Nil) has been recognised within the costs of disposal of the Hygiene business within discontinued 
operations in respect of accelerated facility fee amortisation following the corresponding reduction in the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility 
(“RCF”). Other components are commitment fees on the undrawn RCF of £0.6 million (2010: £1.6 million) and amortisation of swap break costs  
of £3.3 million (2010: £2.3 million).
Capitalised finance costs relate to the construction of new lines at the Group’s manufacturing plants in Italy and in Berlin, Germany of  
£0.3 million (2010: £0.7 million).
In July 2010, the Group entered into US Dollar and Euro interest rate swaps for the term of the new RCF and for the majority of the new loan 
facility in each currency. As a consequence, the interest rate swap contracts under the old RCF were terminated, crystallising break costs of 
£5.4 million which were amortised through the Group’s finance charge over the original remaining term of the old RCF i.e. July 2010 to end 
of September 2011. These swap break costs were being repaid in quarterly instalments over the term of the new RCF . Following the Hygiene 
disposal, the outstanding balances under these contracts were repaid during January 2012.
No allocation of interest charges relating to the Group’s RCF has been made to discontinued operations on the basis that debt and related 
costs are managed on a Group basis and cannot meaningfully be directly allocated. 
7.  Taxation
      2011 2010* 
      £’m £’m
Current tax – continuing operations  
Current income tax charge on underlying activities    0.5 2.0
Current income tax credit on non-recurring activities    (0.7) –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods      (0.7) –
Deferred tax – continuing operations  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences on underlying activities   (1.9) 1.7
Origination and reversal of temporary differences on non-recurring activities  0.3 –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods      1.3 –
Income tax (credit)/charge on operations      (1.2) 3.7
 
Partial recognition of temporary differences on underlying activities in respect of 
US, UK and Italian operations      (3.0) (3.6)
Total income tax (credit)/ charge for the year – continuing operations   (4.2) 0.1
* Restated (see note 1).
The total tax credit for the year includes a credit of £5.5 million (2010: £0.1 million) in respect of UK operations. All other tax items relate to 
overseas operations. Domestic income tax is calculated at 26.5% (2010: 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for 
other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
In the light of post-demerger restructuring action and strategic focus in the Group’s US operations, and taking into account the forecast 
future profitability of the US operations, including management’s view of possible sensitivities to those forecasts, the Group has recognised 
a further asset of £6.1 million (2010: £6.4 million) in respect of US deductible temporary differences, generating a credit of £1.0 million (2010: 
£3.6 million in continuing operations, £1.1 million in discontinued operations) to the underlying deferred tax expense for the year and a credit 
of £5.1 million (2010: £1.7 million) directly in equity in relation to temporary differences on retirement benefit obligations. A full deferred tax 
asset is now recognised in respect of the US tax losses. In addition, as a result of future forecast profitability, deferred tax assets have been 
partially recognised on historic UK and Italian losses amounting to £2.0 million (2010: £Nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    71  
7.  Taxation continued
The total income tax credit for the year can be reconciled to the total accounting profit as follows:
      2011 2010*
      £’m £’m
(Loss)/profit before tax on continuing operations     (7.2) 2.5
Standard UK tax rate      26.5% 28.0%
  
(Loss)/profit before tax multiplied by the standard UK tax rate (1.9) 0.7
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  1.3 0.3
Losses not recognised  – 2.4
Increased recognition of deferred tax assets (3.0) (3.6)
Items on which deferred tax has not been recognised (2.6) (0.6)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.6 –
Effects of different tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 1.4 0.9
Tax (credit)/charge for the year (4.2) 0.1
  
Overall effective tax rate      58.3% 4.0%
  
Effective tax rate on underlying profits      74.5% (1.6)%
* Restated (see note 1).
The difference between the actual tax credit and that expected on the loss for the year has been based on the UK rate of Corporation tax 
of 26.5% (2010: 28%). The comparison of actual tax is made against the UK standard rate rather than the blended rate of taxation for the 
Group, in order to provide a more consistent approach; the use of a blended rate would lead to a distortion year on year as the mix of profits 
and losses has changed considerably as have the underlying tax rates in various jurisdictions. 
In addition to the income tax credit in the income statement, a net £4.4 million credit (2010: £0.2 million credit) has been recorded in equity 
in the period, comprising a debit of £0.7 million (2010: £1.4 million) in respect of fair value adjustments on financial instruments and a credit 
of £5.1 million in respect of retirement benefit obligations (2010: a credit of £1.6 million). 
The effective rate of tax on underlying continuing losses in the year ended 31 December 2011 of £(5.1) million (2010: profit of £6.1 million) 
is 74.5% (2010: 1.6%), due to the credit of £3.0 million (2010: £3.6 million) on the full recognition of deferred tax assets on historic US tax 
losses and partial recognition on UK and Italian losses. Excluding this credit, the effective rate of tax on underlying continuing profits was 
15.7% (2010: 60.7%). 
 
8.  Dividends
      2011 2010  
      £’m £’m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:  
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 2.5 pence (2009: 2.5 pence)    4.2 3.1
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 1.0 pence (2010: 1.7 pence)    1.8 2.1
       6.0 5.2
  
Proposed final dividend for the period ended 31 December 2011 of 2.0 pence (2010: 2.5 pence) per share   3.5 3.1
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements. There are no corporation tax consequences of the proposed dividend for the Group. 72    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
9.  earnings per share
              2011 2010
(1)
              £’m £’m
earnings
Continuing operations  
basic and diluted:  
(Loss)/Profit for the year – attributable to ordinary shareholders   (3.0) 2.4
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items (note 5, 30) 2.1 3.6
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items (note 7)      (0.4) –
Adjusted earnings         (1.3) 6.0
  
Discontinued operations
basic and diluted:  
Profit for the year – attributable to ordinary shareholders      11.8 4.8
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items (6.9) 2.9
Tax on restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items 8.0 (0.4)
Adjusted earnings 12.9 7.3
Total  
basic and diluted:  
Profit for the year – attributable to ordinary shareholders      8.8 7.2
Restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles        
and non-recurring items (note 5, 30)         (4.8) 6.5
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items (note 7, 30)   7.6 (0.4)
Adjusted earnings         11.6 13.3
Number of shares  
w eighted average number of 5p ordinary shares:  
For basic earnings per share         165,247,456 133,328,166
For diluted unadjusted earnings per share        165,736,162 137,822,155
For diluted adjusted earnings per share         165,736,162 137,822,155
earnings per share  
Continuing operations:  
Basic:  
Adjusted           (0.8)p 4.5p
Unadjusted          (1.8)p 1.8p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted           (0.8)p 4.4p
Unadjusted          (1.8)p 1.7p
  
Discontinued operations:  
Basic:  
Adjusted           7.8p 5.4p
Unadjusted          7.1p 3.6p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted           7.8p 5.3p
Unadjusted          7.1p 3.5p
Total
Basic:  
Adjusted           7.0p 9.9p
Unadjusted          5.3p 5.4p
  
Diluted:  
Adjusted           7.0p 9.7p
Unadjusted          5.3p 5.2p
(1) 
The prior year weighted average number of shares has been updated for the theoretical ex-rights adjustment following the Rights Issue 
(see note 26). 
Adjusted earnings per share are shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other 
non-recurring items because the directors consider this provides additional useful information on underlying performance trends. 
Before recognition of deferred tax assets (refer to note 7) of £3.0 million (2010: £3.6 million), adjusted earnings per share from continuing 
operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 are (2.6)p (2010: 1.8p). 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    73  
10.  employees
      2011 2010
      Number Number*
Average monthly number (including Executive Directors)  
by region  
Europe     780 619
North America     477 484
Rest of World         8 –
Continuing operations         1,265 1,103
Discontinued operations         645 700
 1,910 1,803
  
by market  
Technical Fabrics         994 973
Geosynthetics         271 130
Continuing operations         1,265 1,103
Discontinued operations         645 700
         1,910 1,803
  
 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
employment costs  
Wages and salaries 51.7 19.8 71.5 48.5 21.4 69.9
Social security costs  8.2 4.9 13.1 7.2 4.7 11.9
Pension costs (note 23)  2.5 0.6 3.1 2.3 0.9 3.2
Expense of share-based payments (note 25)  0.2 – 0.2 0.4 – 0.4
 62.6 25.3 87.9 58.4 27.0 85.4
* Restated (see note 1).
11.  intangible assets
      Acquired Software & 
     Goodwill Intangibles Licences Total  
     £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost 
At 1 January 2010   92.7 – 10.0 102.7
Exchange adjustments   1.5 – 1.0 2.5
Additions   – – 0.2 0.2
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items  – – (0.4) (0.4)
Disposals   – – (1.3) (1.3)
At 1 January 2011   94.2 – 9.5 103.7
Exchange adjustments   (0.1) – 0.4 0.3
Arising on acquisition   6.0 5.0 – 11.0
Additions   – – 0.7 0.7
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items  – – (0.1) (0.1)
Disposal of subsidiaries   – – (4.2) (4.2)
At 31 December 2011   100.1 5.0 6.3 111.4
     74    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
11.  intangible assets continued
      Acquired Software & 
     Goodwill Intangibles Licences Total  
     £’m £’m £’m £’m
Amortisation and impairment    
At 1 January 2010   (57.6) – (8.4) (66.0)
Exchange adjustments   (1.9) – (0.4) (2.3)
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items  – – 0.3 0.3
Charge for the year   – – (0.4) (0.4)
Disposals   – – 1.3 1.3
At 1 January 2011   (59.5) – (7.6) (67.1)
Exchange adjustments   (0.4) – (0.1) (0.5)
Charge for the year   – (0.6) (0.6) (1.2)
Disposal of subsidiaries   – – 2.6 2.6
At 31 December 2011   (59.9) (0.6) (5.7) (66.2)
    
Carrying amount:    
31 December 2011   40.2 4.4 0.6 45.2
    
31 December 2010   34.7 – 1.9 36.6
Licences are amortised over the period to which they relate, which is on average five years. 
Acquired intangibles consist of:
q 	 	 Order backlog
q 	 	Customer lists and relationships
q 	 	T echnology
q 	 	Brand and trade names
q 	 	 Non-compete agreements
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash- generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 
      2011 2010  
      £’m £’m
T echnical Fabrics – Europe (Veratec, T enotex and Coronor)       21.7 22.3
T echnical Fabrics – US (Reemay)         12.5 12.4
Geosynthetics (Boddingtons and T ubex)         6.0 –
 40.2 34.7
The business tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, based on pre-tax cash flows discounted using a pre-
tax discount rate. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected 
changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. 
The business prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management. Growth rates used for 
2012 to 2014 are based on selling price and cost assumptions for each business individually, built from management’s current knowledge 
and specific expectations for future profit evolution in the short term. Forecasts specifically exclude any incremental profits that may be 
generated through targeted investments in new technologies or strategic markets. Cash flows are then extrapolated for the following  
40 years; growth rates from 2014 are assumed to be Nil.
Value in use calculations assume an annual level of maintenance capital expenditure throughout the forecast period, with periodic higher 
investments included based on previous experience of the useful lives of the equipment in use. Specific capital injections to fund projects 
and new technologies are excluded from value in use calculations. 
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is estimated by reference to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and the degree 
of risk that management feels attaches to a CGU. The discount rates applied in the review at December 2011 range from 9% to 11%  
(2010: 9% to 10%). Headroom ranges between 12% and 99%.
T enotex, which represents the majority of the goodwill in T echnical Fabrics – Europe, is a key part of the Group’s European T echnical Fabric 
business. It has several production lines and a new dual-technology thermobond and air-though bond line was installed in the fourth quarter 
of 2011 and which will be fully commissioned in the first quarter of 2012. The discount rate applied to this CGU is 10.4%. 
The Reemay goodwill is comfortably supported by the US Technical Fabrics forecasts. A discount rate of 10.4% in line with the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital has been applied. 
Management believes that there are no reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions which would result in the carrying amount of 
the CGUs exceeding the recoverable amounts.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    75  
12.  Property, plant and equipment
    Land & Fixtures &   
    Buildings Equipment Total
    £’m £’m £’m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2010   110.9 350.1 461.0
Exchange adjustments   1.7 5.6 7.3
Additions   3.0 30.5 33.5
Interest capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets  – 0.7 0.7
Disposals   (1.9) (3.8) (5.7)
Assets reclassified as held for sale   (0.3) (15.3) (15.6)
Asset write-downs    (0.9) (3.3) (4.2)
At 1 January 2011   112.5 364.5 477.0
Exchange adjustments   (0.3) (0.3) (0.6)
Additions   0.6 20.3 20.9
Interest capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets  – 0.3 0.3
Disposals   (1.3) (1.0) (2.3)
Arising on acquisition   0.1 3.5 3.6
Disposal of subsidiaries   (62.7) (176.1) (238.8)
Asset write-downs    (4.6) (4.0) (8.6)
At 31 December 2011   44.3 207.2 251.5
    
Accumulated depreciation and impairment    
At 1 January 2010   (45.5) (196.2) (241.7)
Exchange adjustments   (0.8) (2.6) (3.4)
Depreciation charge for the year   (3.6) (22.1) (25.7)
Disposals   1.8 3.7 5.5
Asset write-downs in respect of non-recurring items  0.1 2.4 2.5
At 1 January 2011   (48.0) (214.8) (262.8)
Exchange adjustments   0.4 1.1 1.5
Depreciation charge for the year   (3.7) (22.9) (26.6)
Disposals   0.1 0.2 0.3
Impairments   – (1.5) (1.5)
Disposal of subsidiaries   24.6 97.8 122.4
Asset write-downs   4.6 0.9 5.5
At 31 December 2011   (22.0) (139.2) (161.2)
Carrying amount:    
31 December 2011  22.3 68.0 90.3 
31 December 2010  64.5 149.7 214.2
No assets were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2011. At 31 December 2010, assets of £15.3 million relating to the Old Hickory 
utility plant and £0.3 million relating to Peine land were classified as held for sale (see note 16). Non-recurring asset write downs comprise 
primarily of obsolete equipment at the T enotex T erno d’Isola business in T echnical Fabrics and equipment at the Pontypool plant which is not 
being transferred to the Geosynthetics Maldon site as part of the integration (see note 5).
       2011 2010  
       £’m £’m
Capital commitments  
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided     6.5 8.9
The carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures and equipment includes an amount of £0.4 million (2010: £ Nil) in respect of assets held under 
finance leases. 
At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures and equipment includes an amount of £5.4 million (2010: £7.1 million)  
in respect of assets in the course of construction relating to plant and machinery in Maldon, Germany and Italy.
Where assets have been impaired, the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value in use, estimated using a discount 
rates of 10.4% (2010: 9%). 
  76    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
13.  interests in associates and joint ventures
     2011 2010
     £’m £’m
Cost of investment in associates and joint ventures    55.4 49.5
Dividends received    (1.6) –
Share of post-tax profits – discontinued operations    7.3 6.5
Impairment    – (0.6)
Disposal    (61.1) –
     – 55.4
   
Share of results of:  
FitesaFiberweb     7.3 4.0
Total accumulated share of results    13.8 6.5
The names and interests in major associated undertakings and joint ventures are shown in note 3 to the Company Financial Statements.  
The Group’s share of the FitesaFiberweb joint venture was disposed of on 30 December 2011 as part of the disposal of the Hygiene business.
In the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group invested £0.8 million to acquire 26% of the shares in T erram Geosynthetics Private Limited. 
This initial cost of investment was reduced by £0.2 million in respect of the Group’s unrealised share of the post tax gain on T erram’s sale of its 
previously mothballed production line to the associate. This investment has subsequently been impaired as this is no longer considered to be 
recoverable.
Aggregate amounts relating to associates and joint ventures:
       2011 2010  
       £’m £’m 
        Restated
Total assets      – 245.3
Total liabilities      – (134.5)
Net assets      – 110.8
  
Within discontinued operations:
Revenue      196.0 160.6
Profit after tax      14.6 8.1
Share of profit for the year      7.3 4.0
Share of capital expenditure contracted for but not provided    – 19.1
14.  Other investments
        2011 2010  
        £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January        0.3 0.3 
Impairment       (0.3) –
At 31 December       – 0.3
The Group’s investment in Cordustex (Pty) Limited was fully impaired during the year.
15.  inventories
       2011 2010
       £’m £’m
Raw materials      13.2 19.3
Work-in-progress      5.3 4.1
Finished goods      22.4 26.0
       40.9 49.4
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    77  
16.  Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables
      2011 2010  
      £’m £’m
Trade receivables      30.1 55.7
Amounts owed by related parties (note 32)      4.0 3.9
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income     13.4 16.1
Vendor Loan Note      16.7 –
Derivative financial instruments      – 0.9
       64.2 76.6
  
Assets held for sale      – 15.0
In 2010, assets held for sale of £15.0 million comprise £0.3 million of land at Peine, in the former Hygiene segment, and £15.3 million in 
respect of the Old Hickory utility plant (Technical Fabrics segment), less £0.6 million to adjust to fair value and for costs to sell. The Peine 
land was sold in September 2011. The utility plant at Old Hickory was sold to a third party and leased back under an operating lease in 
February 2011.
As part of the proceeds for the disposal of the Hygiene business, the Group issued a one-year Vendor Loan Note to Petropar for $26 million 
at a coupon rate of 6% payable on redemption. The Loan Note is due for redemption on 30 December 2012.
Trade receivables
The average credit period granted on sales of goods is 45 days (2010: 50 days). No interest is charged on receivables paid within their due 
date. Thereafter, the seller reserves the right to charge interest on the overdue outstanding balance at rates ranging from 1.5% to 4% above 
the bank base interest rate of the relevant jurisdiction. An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale 
of goods of £3.1 million (2010: £4.8 million). This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and taking into 
account the Group’s credit insurance cover. Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit scoring system, available 
for use via the provider of its credit insurance cover, to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and define credit limits by customer.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
Amounts owed by related parties includes amounts owed by the former parent company of £3.6 million (2010: £3.6 million) in respect  
of indemnities provided for corporation tax liabilities in accordance with the terms of the Demerger Agreement. This balance also includes 
£0.4 million (2010: £0.3 million) receivable from the FitesaFiberweb joint venture for transition services (see note 32).
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £3.5 million (2010: £3.4 million) which are past due 
at the reporting date and for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts 
are still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances, as in the event of default, the Group would 
pursue reimbursement by claiming on its credit insurance cover. 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
       2011 2010  
       £’m £’m
Amounts overdue by:  
Less than 30 days      3.5 3.4
Between 30 – 60 days      – –
Between 60 – 90 days      – –
More than 90 days      – –
       3.5 3.4
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
       2011 2010  
       £’m £’m
Amounts overdue by:  
Less than 30 days      1.1 2.8
Between 30 – 60 days      0.7 1.0
Between 60 – 90 days      0.4 0.2
More than 90 days      0.9 0.8
       3.1 4.8
Movement in the allowance for estimated unrecoverable amounts in respect of trade receivables
      2011 2010  
      £’m £’m
Balance at the beginning of the period      4.8 5.1
Reduction from discontinued operations      (0.5) –
Impairment losses recognised      0.2 0.7
Amounts released/written off      (1.4) (1.0)
Exchange adjustments      – –
Balance at the end of the year      3.1 4.8 78    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
16.  Other financial assets continued
Cash and cash equivalents
      2011 2010  
      £’m £’m
Cash on hand and at bank      182.3 26.1
Cash and cash equivalents      182.3 26.1
Less: bank overdrafts      – –
 Net cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes     182.3 26.1
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the business and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents at the reporting date are denominated in the following currencies. Note that 
the Group operates a multi-currency cash pooling arrangement with a legal right to set off overdraft facilities against cash.
   Swedish   
 US Dollar Euro  Krona Sterling Other Total 
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2011      
Cash on hand and at bank 167.4 14.3 0.1 0.4 0.1 182.3
31 December 2010      
Cash on hand and at bank 13.7 16.6 1.2 (6.7) 1.3 26.1
Restricted cash – the Group received the $260 million proceeds from the disposal of the Hygiene business on 30 December 2011.  
This money was held on Trust at 31 December 2011 to be used to pay down the Group’s outstanding debt under the Revolving Credit 
Facility. The cash was used to repay the outstanding drawdowns under the RCF on 5 January 2012.
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The credit risk on liquid 
funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances 
for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience,  
is evidence of a reduction of the cash flows. The Group has global credit insurance cover to mitigate the risk of a material bad debt. 
The Group policy provides cover up to agreed limits, but which is subject to an aggregate deductible of €0.6 million. In the event that cover 
is either restricted or withdrawn, Group policy continues to require rigorous review of the customer’s current financial health and careful 
management of the maximum exposure to the Group at any one time. The amount of risk accepted by the Group is subject to defined 
approval limits up to the Executive Directors. Whilst every effort is made to limit the Group’s exposure to potential credit risk, the provision for 
such risk has been decreased from £4.8 million at 31 December 2010 to £3.1 million at the end of the current year. 
The Group’s concentration of credit risk has reduced following the disposal of the Hygiene businesses, where a significant percentage of 
sales were to a small Group of key customers. Refer also to the Business Review on page 29.
Categories of financial assets
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset are disclosed in note 2.
      Carrying value 
        2011 2010  
        £’m £’m
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships     – 0.9
Receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)      246.5 116.8
        246.5 117.7
17.  Trade and other payables
        2011 2010  
        £’m £’m
Trade payables       29.0 41.3
Other taxation and social security       3.0 0.7
Accruals and deferred income       18.3 23.2 
Financial guarantee contracts (note 32)       0.7 1.9
Derivative financial instruments       2.4 1.7
        53.4 68.8
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade 
purchases is 52 days (2010: 50 days). The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    79  
17.  Trade and other payables continued
Categories of financial liabilities
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial liability are disclosed in note 2.
      Carrying value 
      2011 2010
      £’m £’m
 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships       – 1.7
Fair value through profit or loss          2.4 – 
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost          217.1 252.1
          219.5 253.8
 
18.  Obligations under finance leases 
      Present value  
     Minimum  of minimum  
     lease payments lease payments
    2011 2010 2011 2010 
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
Amounts payable under finance leases:    
Within one year, present value of lease obligations   0.3 – 0.3 – 
In the second to fifth years, present value of lease obligations  0.1 – 0.1 –
 
There were no finance lease obligations in 2010. Finance lease obligations were acquired as a result of the Boddingtons and Tubex 
acquisitions.
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases. For the year ended 31 December 2011, the 
average effective borrowing rate was 8.3% (2010: Nil%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date or vary based on prevailing interest rates. 
Finance lease obligations are denominated in GBP £0.1 million and Euro £0.3 million. 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. 
Obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets. 
19.  Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee 
     2011 2010  
     £’m £’m
 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 3.1 1.5
At the balance sheet date, the business has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
     2011 2010  
     £’m £’m
Within one year     3.3 1.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive     9.4 1.7
After 5 years     9.0 – 
 21.7 3.1
Operating lease payments represent amounts payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, plant and equipment. Leases are 
negotiated for an average term of one year for office properties, twelve years for warehouses and four years for equipment. Rentals are 
generally fixed or adjusted for based on inflation. The increase in the year reflects the amounts payable on the operating lease on the  
Old Hickory utility plant which was subject to a sale and operating leaseback during 2011.
The Group as lessor
No rental income was earned during the year (2010: £Nil). At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with Petropar for the 
following future minimum lease payments:
     2011 2010  
     £’m £’m
Within one year     0.8 –
In the second to fifth years inclusive     0.3 –
After 5 years     – – 
 1.1 – 80    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
20.  bank overdrafts and loans
     2011 2010  
     £’m £’m
Bank overdrafts     – –
Bank loans     159.9 177.3
 159.9 177.3
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
     2011 2010  
     £’m £’m
On demand or within one year     159.9 7.6
In the second year      – 8.6
In the third to fifth years inclusive     – 161.1
     159.9 177.3
Less: Amount due for settlement within one year (shown under current liabilities)  (159.9) (7.6)
Amounts due for settlement after more than one year    – 169.7
All of the Group’s borrowings under the RCF have been disclosed as due for settlement within one year as these amounts were repaid in full 
on 5 January 2012 following the disposal of the Hygiene business.
The fair value of the Group’s borrowings is not materially different from their carrying values. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings at the reporting date are denominated in the following currencies:
     Swedish
   US Dollar Euro  Krona Sterling Other Total
   £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2011      
Bank overdrafts  – – – – – –
Bank loans  75.9 55.9 13.0 15.0 0.1 159.9
   75.9 55.9 13.0 15.0 0.1 159.9
31 December 2010      
Bank overdrafts  – – – – – –
Bank loans  84.8 67.2 21.8 3.5 – 177.3
   84.8 67.2 21.8 3.5 – 177.3
The average interest rates on borrowings from unrelated third parties are as follows:
       2011 2010 
United States Dollar      4.28% 3.36%
Euro       5.34% 3.73%
Swedish Krona      5.99% 3.57%
Great British Pounds      3.73% 3.50%
A new loan facility (“the new RCF”) was entered into in February 2010 for a term of 3½ years until July 2013 and for an amount of £200 million, 
comprising multi-currency facilities of €110 million and US$170 million. Following the disposal of the Hygiene business on 30 December 
2011, the multi-currency facilities were reduced to €30 million and US$40 million.
The majority of borrowings are arranged at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to interest rate risk, against which the Group seeks to 
protect itself through interest rate swaps (see note 21). The effective rates on borrowings during 2011 are not materially different from their 
nominal interest rates. 
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. The business has secured loans of £0.2 million (2010: £1.2 million). The RCF is guaranteed by 
a number of the Group’s trading entities in respect of the parent’s liabilities. All other bank loans are unsecured, although there are some 
cases where parent guarantees have been issued in respect of bank loans to overseas subsidiaries.
At the year end, the Group had available $Nil (2010: $27.8 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. Following the Hygiene 
disposal, the amounts outstanding under the RCF were repaid on 5 January 2012 and the full facilities under the revised RCF were undrawn.
Covenants include an EBITDA/net debt gearing covenant of 2.75x and an interest cover covenant of 5.0x for the majority of the term of the 
RCF , with more relaxed covenants during the initial period. Under the facility, covenant tests are required on a quarterly basis. 
In addition, the Geosynthetics segment has a £3.5 million invoice discounting facility of which £1.1 million was utilised at 31 December 2011.
Liquidity risk management
The Group is exposed to short term liquidity risks if outflows exceed the funds currently available at the time. Ultimate responsibility for 
liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors. The board in conjunction with the Group’s treasury function have built an 
appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long term funding and liquidity 
management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves under the revolving credit facility and 
continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring adequate funds are drawn down to cover any outflows required, 
subject to the restrictions imposed by the Group’s banking covenants. The additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to 
further reduce liquidity risk are set out above. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    81  
20.  bank overdrafts and loans continued
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its non-derivative financial assets. The table has been drawn up based on 
undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets.
      Within   
      1 year 1-5 years Total  
      £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2011       
Non-interest bearing     46.8 – 46.8
31 December 2010      
Non-interest bearing     90.7 – 90.7
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up 
based on undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities and includes both interest and principal cash flows.
  Within   
  1 year 1-5 years +5 years Total 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2011 
Non-interest bearing 56.1 – – 56.1  
Finance lease liability 0.3 0.1 – 0.4 
Variable interest rate instruments 159.9 – – 159.9 
  216.3 0.1 – 216.4
  Within   
  1 year 1-5 years +5 years T otal
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2010     
Non-interest bearing 69.9 3.0 – 72.9
Finance lease liability – – – –
Variable interest rate instruments 7.6 169.7 – 177.3
  77.5 172.7 – 250.2
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The table has been drawn up based on the 
undiscounted net cash inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows/(outflows) 
on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been 
determined by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
    Within Within Within  
    1 month 1-12 months 2-5 years Total  
    £’m £’m £’m £’m
31 December 2011        
Interest rate swaps   – – (2.0) (2.0)
Commodity derivatives   (0.4) – – (0.4)
    (0.4) – (2.0) (2.4)
    
31 December 2010    
Interest rate swaps   – – (1.7) (1.7)
Commodity derivatives   0.6 0.3 – 0.9
Foreign exchange forward contracts   – – – –
    0.6 0.3 (1.7) (0.8)
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt which includes 
borrowings disclosed in this note, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued 
capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 26 to 28. The Group reviews its capital structure regularly and as part of such 
review, it considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
externally imposed capital requirement
Under the revolving credit facility described above, the Group is subject to the same capital requirements of a gearing ratio (net debt to 
EBITDA) and an interest cover ratio (EBITDA to interest) which will be measured every three months on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September 
and 31 December. EBITDA is defined as underlying operating profit adjusted to exclude interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 
and certain other non-cash items. 
The net debt to EBITDA requirements are set out in the following table.  82    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
20.  bank overdrafts and loans continued
relevant period ending:   Consolidated Net borrowings shall not exceed
30 June 2010, 30 September 2010 and 31 December 2010  3.20 times EBITDA
31 March 2011   3.125 times EBITDA
30 June 2011, 30 September 2011 and 31 December 2011  3.00 times EBITDA
31 March 2012 – 30 June 2013   2.75 times EBITDA
The EBITDA to interest ratio will also be measured every three months and is as follows:
relevant period ending:   ebiTDA to exceed or be equal to
30 June 2010 – 31 March 2011    4.50 times interest
30 June 2011 – 30 June 2013   5.00 times interest
The Group has remained within the limits of its facility at all times over the life of the facilities. 
The immediate impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s net debt versus the slower impact on the Group’s trading results can 
adversely impact the calculation of the Group’s gearing covenant at the covenant test dates. This risk is mitigated by the existence of a 
clause in the RCF Agreements allowing net debt to be translated at the cumulative average exchange rates for the relevant period, if, and 
only if, the Group would be in breach of the covenant if spot rates are used to retranslate net debt. 
21.  Derivative financial instruments
  2011 2011 2010 2010 
  Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
Derivatives that are designated and effective
as hedging instruments carried at fair value    
Interest rate swaps – – – (1.7)
Commodity derivatives – – 0.9 –
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)    
Held for trading derivatives that are not designated in 
hedge accounting relationships: 
Interest rate swaps – (2.0) – –
Forward foreign currency contracts – (0.4) – –
Note 16, 17 – (2.4) 0.9 (1.7)
The fair values of all derivative financial instruments shown in the table above are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the 
balance sheet date and are held as assets and liabilities within other receivables and payables. Derivative instruments are fair valued based 
on the estimated market valuations provided by the respective bank with which the instrument is held. 
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position
The Group is required to analyse its financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, and to classify 
them into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
q 	 Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
q 	 	 Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for 
the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
q 	 	 Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All fair value measurements of financial instruments recognised in the statement of financial position are classified as Level 2 as defined 
above. Note that there were no transfers between the levels during the year.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s corporate treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial 
markets, and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to operations. These risks include market risk (including currency risk, fair 
value interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk. 
The Group seeks to manage the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these exposures. The use of financial 
derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, 
interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. 
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer on a continuous basis and periodically by internal 
audit. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into a variety of financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
q 	 	forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising in trading subsidiaries, primarily through net sales to 
customers and purchases from suppliers in currencies other than their domestic local currency;
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    83  
21.  Derivative financial instruments continued
q 	 interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates, and
q 	 forward foreign exchange swaps to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on net balance sheet exposure around the Group.
There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk. 
Foreign currency risk management
The overall policy of Fiberweb is to use borrowings in currency to manage the translational currency risk arising from assets and earnings in 
overseas subsidiaries. The currency profile of borrowings under the RCF broadly mirrors both the currency profile of the Group’s net assets 
and EBITDA. Foreign currency-denominated borrowings are largely designated as net investment hedges. Foreign exchange forwards are 
used to manage the net balance sheet exposure. It is the Group’s policy not to undertake speculative currency transactions. 
Fiberweb’s business is characterised by a relatively low level of cross border activity, and therefore the Group has little transactional currency 
exposure. Overall, the volume of transactions with a currency impact is below 10% of turnover. However, the Group’s policy is that, where 
significant transactional exposures exist, these exposures should be hedged with maturities not to exceed twelve months.
The Group monitors the translational foreign currency exposures of its financial assets and liabilities on a monthly basis, adapting its portfolio 
of loans and hedges as may be required. 
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge transactional risk are taken to the income statement.  
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £18.4 million (2010: £33.4 million) of forward contracts to buy 
or sell foreign currency. The fair value of such transactions was £Nil (2010: £Nil). 
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding at the year end:
Forward foreign exchange contracts
 Average   
 exchange rates Foreign currency Contract value Fair value
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
     £’m £’m £’m £’m
Outstanding contracts: 
Buy EUR/sell GBP 1.20 1.18 4.5 6.5 3.7 5.5 – 0.1
Buy GBP/sell EUR 1.20 – 12.0 – 9.9 – – –
Buy USD/sell GBP  1.57 1.56 7.5 7.5 4.8 4.8 – –
Buy USD/sell RMB – 6.58 – 10.0 – 6.4 – –
Sell SEK/buy GBP – – – – – – – –
Sell EUR/buy SEK  – 8.97 – 19.5 – 16.7 – (0.1)
     18.4 33.4 – –
All contracts mature within thirty days of year end.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
The Group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate applicable for the US Dollar and the Euro. Operating profit, EBITDA and net 
debt are the key inputs into the Group’s gearing covenant and the exchange impacts on these variables are monitored closely. 
The following table illustrates the impact on the Group’s continuing underlying operating profit, EBITDA, net debt and equity of a 10% 
increase and decrease in Sterling against each of these currencies, assuming all other variables are unchanged. The use of a 10% variation 
has been chosen in light of the magnitude of recent fluctuations in both the US Dollar and Euro values against Sterling. These values 
have been computed using the currency profile of the Group’s operating profit, EBITDA and net debt. For the restatement of the Group’s 
operating profit and EBITDA, the Sterling equivalents have been retranslated by flexing the cumulative average exchange rates used by the 
Group for the relevant periods. For the restatement of the Group’s net debt and equity, the Sterling equivalents have been retranslated by 
flexing the actual closing exchange rates used by the Group at the period ends. The relevant cumulative average and closing exchange rates 
used by the Group for 2010 and 2011 are published in the Business Review on page 29.
         2011 2010*
         £’m £’m
Flexing the USD/£ cross rate   
Continuing underlying operating profit:  
As reported         10.8 20.9
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate       9.6 19.6
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate       12.2 22.6
  
Continuing underlying ebiTDA:  
As reported        23.1 32.2
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate       21.4 30.3
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate       25.3 34.6
  
Net cash/(debt):  
As reported        22.0 (151.2)
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate       12.3 (144.8)
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate       33.8 (158.9)
   84    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
21.  Derivative financial instruments continued
         2011 2010*
         £’m £’m
equity:
As reported        178.8 178.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the USD/£ cross rate       172.2 172.6
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the USD/£ cross rate       187.5 186.0
Flexing the euro/£ cross rate  
Continuing underlying operating profit:  
As reported         10.8 20.9
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate       10.6 20.3
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate       11.0 21.7
  
Continuing underlying ebiTDA:  
As reported        23.1 32.2
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate       22.6 31.2
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate       23.8 33.4
Flexing the euro/£ cross rate  
Net cash/(debt):  
As reported        22.0 (151.2)
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate       25.8 (146.6)
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate       17.4 (156.8)
  
equity:  
As reported        178.8 178.6
Restated assuming a 10% increase in the Euro/£ cross rate       169.4 169.8
Restated assuming a 10% decrease in the Euro/£ cross rate       191.0 189.3
* Restated (see note 1).
The impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s operating profit and EBITDA in 2010 and 2011 has not been as notable as might be 
expected in the face of significant movements in both the Euro and USD cross rate with Sterling. This is attributable to the use of a 13 month 
cumulative average exchange rate to convert profits, which slows the impact of spot changes in the cross rate. 
interest rate risk
The Group is predominantly exposed to interest rate fluctuations on the portion of the revolving credit facility that is not covered by hedging 
arrangements. The total amount drawn down under the RCF at the year end was £157.8 million (2010: £173.7 million). This was repaid in 
full on 5 January 2012 using the proceeds from the disposal of the Hygiene business. The Group’s policy is to use a combination of debt 
and derivative instruments to hedge portions of its interest rate exposure for varying periods, up to the maturity of its underlying borrowing 
facilities. Interest rate swaps are entered into after due consideration by the Group’s treasury function of actual base interest rates and 
financial market projections for future changes to those rates based on economic conditions, and such swaps must be approved by the 
board of directors in line with Group policy. 
As a result of the new RCF, the Group entered into a series of interest rate swaps for totals of US$100 million and Euro 60 million (2010: 
US$100 million, Euro 60 million), spread over several banks, whereby it pays a blended average fixed rate of 1.79% for US Dollar and 1.89% for 
Euros and receives floating rate. The interest rate swaps settle on a semi-annual basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 6-month  
US Dollar LIBOR and 6-month EURIBOR respectively. The Group will settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net 
basis. The interest rate swaps settlements and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is 
recognised in the profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact profit or loss. 
Following the disposal of the Hygiene business and the repayment of all amounts drawn under the RCF, the swaps were terminated in 
January 2012. The swaps were due to mature in 2013 and had been designated interest risk hedges. As a result of the Hygiene Disposal,  
the underlying cashflows were no longer highly probable and the hedge relationship was broken following shareholder approval of the 
disposal of 6 December 2011. The fair market value of the swaps at 31 December 2011 was a loss of £1.9 million (2010: a loss of £1.7 million) 
and this loss has been recognised as part of the costs of disposal of the Hygiene business (2010: loss debited to the hedging reserve). 
The following table summarises the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of the interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at 
the reporting date:
Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts:
  Average contract Notional  
  fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value
   2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
   % % £’m £’m £’m £’m
Maturing in 2013    2.86 1.83 114.3 115.3 (2.0) (1.7)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    85  
21.  Derivative financial instruments continued
interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The interest sensitivity analysis below is based on the assumption that changes in market interest rates affect the interest income or expense 
of variable interest financial instruments and that a change in market interest rates only affects interest income or expense in relation to 
financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at their fair value.
Under these assumptions, if market interest rates over the course of the year were on average 1% higher or lower for all currencies in which 
the Group had borrowings this would increase or decrease profit before tax and equity as follows:
         2011 2010  
         £’m £’m
Average amount drawn down under the revolving credit facility      159.6 172.3
Average amount covered by hedging arrangements        114.7 112.2
  
Average amount exposed to interest rate fluctuations       44.9 60.1
Effect on profit before tax and equity in the event of a 1% rise or fall  
in average interest rates over the period         0.4 0.6
During the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2011, there was no notable change in the Group’s sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations as 
a result of the high proportion of the Group’s borrowings that are hedged by interest rate swaps, effectively restricting exposure to changes 
in variable relevant base interest rates. Following the disposal of the Hygiene business on 30 December 2011 and the repayment of amounts 
outstanding under the RCF , the Group’s interest rate exposure has been reduced significantly and the interest rate swaps were terminated 
during January 2012.
Commodity risks 
The Group faces commodity raw material price exposure to a number of raw materials, mainly polypropylene and, to a lesser extent, 
polyester and polyethylene. The monthly management reporting process highlights the net impact, adverse or favourable, of fluctuations 
in raw material prices and this is considered by the board. The Group prefers to manage its exposure to polypropylene and others through 
business arrangements with its suppliers and customers, which neutralise part of the exposure. However , the market for appropriate hedging 
instruments is monitored continuously by management with a view to mitigate this risk. 
The Group took out three hedge contracts during the year for 16,000 tonnes of polypropylene purchases for periods between 1 January 
2011 and 31 December 2011. As at 31 December 2011, the Group owed £0.3 million in respect of the final settlement of this contract.
In July 2010, the Group took out a hedge contract for 12,000 tonnes of polypropylene purchases for the period 1 July 2010 to 31 December 
2010; as at 31 December 2010, the Group was owed £0.3 million in respect of the final settlement of this contract. In December 2010, the 
Group entered into a contract to hedge the price of 14,400 tonnes of polypropylene purchases in the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 
2010. As at 31 December 2010, the fair value of this hedge was a gain of £0.7 million, which was recognised directly in the hedge reserve 
within Group equity. 
Further discussion of the key risks to which Fiberweb is exposed can be found on pages 29 to 31 of the Business Review. 
22.  Provisions
      Restructuring  
      provisions  
      £’m
At 1 January 2011     7.7
Exchange gains     (0.1)
Created in the year     9.5 
Disposed with subsidiaries      (3.2)
Released during year     (0.4)
Utilised in the year     (7.7)
At 31 December 2011     5.8
Restructuring provisions represent costs provided in relation to obligations existing at the balance sheet date for reorganisation around the globe: 
 –     Provisions include £0.5 million in respect of redundancy costs and a balance of £1.4 million in respect of the closure in December 
2008 of our Korma, Italy facility;
 –     £0.2 million in respect of accrued professional fees; and
 –    £0.4 million in respect of potential warranty claims on connection with the Group’s disposal of Bidim in June 2008.
 –   Restructuring costs of £2.7 million related to the Group restructuring performed following the Hygiene disposal.
 –   Integration costs of £0.6 million arising following the acquisitions of Boddingtons and T ubex.
The provision brought forward relates primarily to the restructuring of the US Hygiene business (£3.2 million), with £1.7 million relating to 
European restructuring and £2.0 million in respect of the closure of our Korma, Italy facility. 
      2011 2010
Analysed as:     £’m £’m
Current liabilities     5.8 4.7
Non-current liabilities     – 3.0
      5.8 7.7 86    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
23.  Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of pension plans worldwide. The majority of these are defined contribution in nature. The normal pension cost 
for the Continuing Group, including early retirement costs, was £2.5 million (2010 £2.3 million) of which £2.3 million (2010: £2.1 million) was 
in respect of foreign schemes. This includes £2.3 million (2010: £1.6 million) relating to defined contribution schemes. The pension costs are 
assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries, where practicable, using a variety of methods and assumptions 
and otherwise, in respect of certain foreign schemes, in accordance with local regulations. 
The Group’s foreign pension schemes mainly relate to defined contribution plans. 
The most significant defined benefit pension plans are in North America, where the Group operates two funded final salary pension 
arrangements. Pension costs for these plans have been calculated by independent qualified actuaries, using the projected unit method and 
assumptions appropriate to the arrangements in place. 
The Group also operates a number of post-retirement benefit plans in North America which principally cover healthcare and life assurance 
benefits for its current and future retirees. The costs of these benefits are also assessed by independent qualified actuaries using methods 
and assumptions appropriate under IAS 19. 
In accordance with IAS 19 the latest actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare plans have been 
reviewed and updated as at 31 December 2011. The following weighted average financial assumptions have been adopted: 
 North America  Rest of World
p.a. (%) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
Discount rate 4.1 5.3 5.8 4.5 4.8 5.1
Rate of increase to pensionable salaries – – – 2.8 2.8 2.5
Price inflation 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
Rate of increase to pensions in payment – – – 1.0 1.8 1.8
Rate of healthcare cost increases    8%         
   reducing 
    to 5% over
    the next 
  –    3 years   – –  –
Mortality assumptions
Mortality assumptions for the US plans are based on the US standard table RP2000 with allowance for future improvements in mortality 
allowed for in line with projections scale AA. Generational tables have been used so that the basis used to calculate liabilities in respect 
of future pensioners assumes lower mortality (i.e. a larger allowance for improvements) than for current pensioners. The expected future 
lifetimes calculated using these assumptions are summarised as follows:
         2011 2010 
Expected future lifetime of:  
 – a 65 year old current male pensioner      19.8 years 19.7 years
 – a 65 year old current female pensioner      21.7 years 21.6 years
 – a 65 year old future male pensioner (currently aged 45)      21.4 years 21.2 years
 – a 65 year old future female pensioner (currently aged 45)      23.2 years 22.5 years
The key sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities relate to the discount rate and the mortality 
rate and are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption   impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5%  Decrease/increase by 5.6%/6.2%
Rate of mortality Increase by 1 year  Increase by 3.0%
Since the majority of the Group’s defined benefit liabilities relate to frozen US schemes, changes to inflation and salary assumptions do not 
have a material impact on the Group’s liabilities. 
The fair value of the assets and liabilities of the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
 North America Rest of World Total
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Assets         
Equities 13.6 12.5 11.6 11.5 16.0 – – – – 0.1 13.6 12.5 11.6 11.5 16.1
Government bonds 6.0 10.0 13.4 15.9 11.0 – – – – 0.1 6.0 10.0 13.4 15.9 11.1
Corporate bonds 16.4 9.5 3.7 4.5 0.9 – – – – – 16.4 9.5 3.7 4.5 0.9
Other 0.7 2.2 0.8 1.2 1.3 1.1 0.8 1.0 1.1 0.8 1.8 3.0 1.8 2.3 2.1
Total fair value of  
scheme assets 36.7 34.2 29.5 33.1 29.2 1.1 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.0 37.8 35.0 30.5 34.2 30.2
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    87  
23.  Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
 North America Rest of World Total
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Obligations         
Present value of  
funded defined  
benefit obligations (58.7) (50.8) (47.1) (50.9) (37.5) (1.3) (1.2) (1.1) (1.2) (0.9) (60.0) (52.0) (48.2) (52.1) (38.4)
Present value of  
unfunded defined  
benefit obligations (1.4) (13.5) (11.9) (10.7) (7.8) (1.6) (5.0) (5.3) (6.9) (5.8) (3.0) (18.5) (17.2) (17.6) (13.6)
Total value of  
scheme obligations (60.1) (64.3) (59.0) (61.6) (45.3) (2.9) (6.2) (6.4) (8.1) (6.7) (63.0) (70.5) (65.4) (69.7) (52.0)
Past service costs 
not yet recognised (1.3) – – – – – – – – – (1.3) – – – – 
Liability recognised  
on the balance  
sheet date (24.7) (30.1) (29.5) (28.5) (16.1) (1.8) (5.4) (5.4) (7.0) (5.7) (26.5) (35.5) (34.9) (35.5) (21.8)
The funding policy for the schemes is reviewed on a systematic basis and in consultation with an independent qualified actuary where 
appropriate in order to ensure that the funding contributions from sponsoring employers are appropriate to meet the liabilities of the 
schemes over the long term.
The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect the Group’s best estimate of the investment returns (net of tax and expenses) that will be 
earned on each asset class over the long term. The expected return on assets in the analysis of the income statement is based on weighted 
average returns using these rates, and taking into account the asset allocation of each plan.
      North America
%     2011 2010 2009 
Long term expected rate of return on plan assets   
Equities     7.8 8.3 8.5
Government bonds     2.9 4.3 4.5
Corporate bonds     4.1 5.3 5.5
Other     0.6 0.3 0.3
Total     5.2 5.8 6.1
  North America Rest of World Total
  2011  2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
  £’m  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Analysis of income statement charge      
Current service cost – continuing operations  0.1  0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.5
Current service cost – discontinued operations 0.1  0.1 – 0.3 0.1 0.4
Interest cost – continuing operations  2.9  3.1 0.2 0.1 3.1 3.2
Interest cost – discontinued operations  0.2  0.3 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4
Expected return on assets – continuing operations (1.9)  (1.9) – – (1.9) (1.9)
Immediate recognition of losses arising over the year –  
continuing operations  –  – – 0.1 – 0.1
Recognition of past service cost – continuing operations (5.7)  – – – (5.7) –
Recognition of past service costs – discontinued operations (1.5)  – – – (1.5) –
Gains due to settlements and curtailments –  
continuing operations  (0.7)  – – (0.1) (0.7) (0.1)
Gains due to settlements and curtailments – 
discontinued operations  (1.3)  – – – (1.3) –
Pension liability disposed   (2.9)  – (3.0) – (5.9) –
      
Expense recognised in income statement – continuing operations (5.3)  1.4 0.3 0.4 (5.0) 1.8
Expense recognised in income statement – discontinued operations (5.4)  0.4 (2.9) 0.4 (8.3) 0.8
  88    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
23.  Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
Current service costs in respect of underlying trading operations have been recognised in the income statement within administrative 
expenses. During the year, the Group made changes to the benefits provided under the US post retirement benefit plans. As a result a 
curtailment gain and a credit in respect of the immediate recognition of past service costs arose. These gains have been recognised as part 
of non-recurring items in the year.
As part of the disposal of the Hygiene business, the Group disposed of pension and post retirement schemes in the US, Italy and Germany 
which are disclosed within pension liabilities disposed in the table above.
Net interest payable of £1.1 million (2010: £1.7 million) has been recognised within finance costs for continuing operations (see note 6). 
  North America Rest of World Total
  2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Changes to the fair value of scheme assets during the year      
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 34.2 29.5 0.8 1.0 35.0 30.5
Expected return on assets 1.9 1.9 – – 1.9 1.9
Actual employer contributions 4.2 3.2 0.7 1.1  4.9 4.3
Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 – –  0.3 0.3
Net benefits paid out (3.8) (3.9) (0.3) (1.0)  (4.1) (4.9)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on assets (0.4) 2.3 (0.1) –  (0.5) 2.3
Foreign currency exchange rate changes 0.3 0.9 – (0.4)  0.3 0.5
Settlements – – – 0.1  – 0.1
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 36.7 34.2 1.1 0.8  37.8 35.0
  North America Rest of World Total
   2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
   £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Changes to the defined benefit obligation during the year      
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year  64.3 59.0 6.2 6.4 70.5 65.4
Current service cost  0.2 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.9
Interest cost  3.1 3.4 0.3 0.2 3.4 3.6
Contributions by plan participants  0.3 0.3 – – 0.3 0.3
Past service costs  (7.2) – – – (7.2) –
Gains due to settlements and curtailments  (2.0) – – – (2.0) –
Actuarial (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities *  9.0 3.3 (0.2) 0.2 8.8 3.5
Net benefits paid out  (3.8) (3.9) (0.3) (1.0) (4.1) (4.9)
Past service costs not yet recognised  (1.3) – – – (1.3) –
Pension liability disposed of (see note 30)  (2.9) – (3.0) – (5.9) –
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  0.4 1.9 (0.2) (0.2) 0.2 1.7
Defined benefit obligation at end of year  60.1 64.3 2.9 6.2 63.0 70.5
*Includes changes to the actuarial assumptions.
  North America Rest of World Total
     2011 2010  2011 2010 2011 2010 
     £’m £’m  £’m £’m £’m £’m
Actual return on scheme assets    1.6 4.2  (0.1) – 1.5 4.2
Analysis of amounts recognised in the  
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income      
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the year   (9.4) (1.0)  0.1 (0.2) (9.3) (1.2)
Total losses in the Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income     (9.4) (1.0)  0.1 (0.2) (9.3) (1.2)
Cumulative amount of losses recognised in the  
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income    (28.1) (18.7)  (1.6) (1.7) (29.7) (20.4)
A 1% increase in assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate charge in the income statement by £Nil (2010: £0.2 
million) and increase the net liability by £Nil (2010: £1.7 million). A 1% decrease in assumed medical cost trend rates would reduce the 
aggregate charge in the income statement by £Nil (2010: £0.1 million) and reduce the net liability by £Nil (2010: £1.4 million). 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    89  
23.  Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
   North America     Rest of World     Total
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
History of Asset 
Values, Defined  
benefit Obligations         
Fair value of assets 36.7 34.2 29.5 33.1 29.2 1.1 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.0 37.8 35.0 30.5 34.2 30.2
Defined benefit  
obligations 60.1 64.3 59.0 61.6 45.3 2.9 6.2 6.4 8.1 6.7 63.0 70.5 65.4 69.7 52.0
Deficit (23.4) (30.1) (29.5) (28.5) (16.1) (1.8) (5.4) (5.4) (7.0) (5.7) (25.2) (35.5) (34.9) (35.5) (21.8)
            
Experience  
(losses)/gains on  
scheme assets (0.4) 2.3 0.2 (7.1) 2.0 (0.1) – (0.1) – 0.7 (0.5) 2.3 0.1 (7.1) 2.7
Experience  
(losses)/gains on  
scheme liabilities 0.8 0.9 (1.6) (0.1) (2.3) 0.3 – 0.2 – (0.3) 1.1 0.9 (1.4) (0.1) (2.6)
   North Rest of  
   America World Total  
   £’m £’m £’m
Employer contributions in 2012 are estimated to be:  3.8 0.1 3.9
24.  Deferred tax 
    Goodwill Tax losses   
  Fixed Other and and tax Retirement 
  assets assets intangibles credits benefits Total 
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2011 (19.2) 1.4 (1.3) 14.5 7.2 2.6
(Charged)/credited in year  (0.8) 1.2 (0.8) 8.2 (2.8) 5.0
Recognised directly in equity – (0.4) – (0.3) 5.1 4.4
Arising on acquisition – (0.3) (1.3) – – (1.6)
Disposal of subsidiaries 7.4 0.4 (0.3) (6.6) (0.8) 0.1
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 – (0.1) 0.1 0.2
At 31 December 2011 (12.5) 2.4 (3.7) 15.7 8.8 10.7
      
In accordance with IAS 12, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax 
balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
      2011 2010 
      £’m £’m
Deferred tax liabilities      (3.7) (15.6)
Deferred tax assets      14.4 18.2
      10.7 2.6
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses and other temporary differences of  
£4.9 million (2010: £13.3 million) available for offset against future profits. These assets have not been recognised as the precise 
incidence of future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be predicted accurately at this time. The Group’s tax losses 
may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for 
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £0.1 million (2010: £0.1 million). No liability has been recognised in respect 
of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable 
that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
T emporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant.  90    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
25.  Share-based payments
In the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recognised a total expense, within staff costs, in relation to share-based payments under 
equity-settled schemes of £0.3 million (2010: £0.4 million).
The schemes in operation during the year are as follows. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) The LTIP provides for the grant of free shares in the form of contingent shares. 
The first award of shares under the LTIP was made 27 November 2006, when 1,143,938 shares were granted. Further awards of 1,333,333 
shares, 1,807,029 shares and 2,284,172 shares under the LTIP were made 12 and 29 May 2008 and 26 June 2009 respectively. In 2011, 
awards of 2,440,434 shares and 85,000 shares were made on 3 May 2011 and 14 November 2011 respectively. 
Shares in relation to all three of these awards will be released to participants at the end of an expected three year performance period, 
dependent on the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied. Subject to good leaver provisions, awards are forfeited 
if the employee leaves before the end of the vesting period. 
Fifty per cent of the shares awarded under the grants are governed by a TSR market based performance condition. The remaining fifty per 
cent is governed by an EPS performance condition.
The Group recognised a total expense in relation to LTIP awards of £0.3 million (2010: £0.4 million). Awards outstanding at the end of the 
year were 3,028,385 (2010: 4,134,342). The weighted average fair value of the LTIP awards during the period 71.0 pence per share or  
£2.2 million in total (2010: 55.7 pence per share or £2.3 million).
The following table summarises the evolution of the Group’s LTIP awards during the period:
Number of shares outstanding  2008 2009 2011 Total
  LTIP LTIP LTIP Shares
At 1 January 2011  2,330,170 1,804,172 – 4,134,342
Adjustment for Rights Issue  – 414,960 – 414,960
Granted  – – 2,525,434 2,525,434
Lapsed through employee turnover  (120,408) (147,600) (30,750) (298,758) 
Lapsed on vesting  (2,209,762) – – (2,209,762) 
Lapsed on disposal of the Hygiene business  – (802,332) (735,499) (1,537,831)
At 31 December 2011  – 1,269,200 1,759,185 3,028,385
  
  £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2011  0.4 0.6 – 1.0
Charged to income   – 0.2 0.1 0.3 
Released through retained earnings on vesting  (0.4) – – (0.4)
At 31 December 2011  – 0.8 0.1 0.9
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £0.3 million (2010: £0.4 million), all of which related to  
equity-settled share-based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge to the income statement was £0.3 million (2010:  
£0.4 million). The weighted average remaining contractual life of share-based payment schemes outstanding at 31 December 2011 was  
1.6 years (2010: 0.9 years).
Fair value assumptions
The fair value of shares awarded under the plans has been calculated using the market value of shares adjusted to take into account the 
TSR market based performance condition where applicable. The calculation has been performed using the stochastic pricing model.  
The assumptions made in performing the calculation for each award are listed below:
   2009 LTiP 2011 LTiP 2011 LTiP
 
Grant date   26 June 3 May 14 November 
   2009 2011 2011 
Number of participants   21 33 2 
Performance period   3 years 3 years 3 years 
Risk free rate   7.8% 1.48% 0.6%
Stochastic model assumptions:   
  – Share price at grant date (pence)   69.25 73.00 56.25 
  – Exercise price (pence)   – – – 
  – Volatility   50.0% 52.1% 44.2%
  – Expected dividend yield   6.0% 5.75% 6.22%
Fair value of shares:    
 – TSR element (pence)   47.51 43.20 25.22 
 – EPS element (pence)   57.75 60.94 46.50 
Expected volatility for the grants is based on the historical volatility taking into account the expected vesting term for each grant. Awards of 
shares with no exercise price are not affected by the risk free rate of interest. In calculating the income statement charge in relation to the 
EPS element of the 2006 plans, an expected vesting percentage of 50% (2010: 100%) has been applied to the fair values. In relation to the 
EPS element of the 2008 and 2010 LTIP plans, expected vesting percentages of 50% applied to both. These vesting percentages have been 
calculated after taking into account expected staff retention rates and the probabilities attached to attainment of the performance condition.
The weighted average exercise price of all share-based payment schemes outstanding at December 2010 and 2011 was Nil.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    91  
26.  Share capital
        2011 2010 
        £’m £’m
Authorised: 200 million ordinary shares of 5p each       10.0 10.0
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p        8.7 6.1
        Number of Number of
        shares shares
At 1 January        122,658,136 122,440,375
Issued to satisfy LTIP awards        2,226,966 217,761
Issued to satisfy Rights Issue        42,387,882 –
Issued on Boddingtons acquisition        4,505,512 –
Issued on Tubex acquisition        1,805,055 –
At 31 December        173,583,551 122,658,136
Number of shares in issue
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
On 10 January 2011, the Company issued 4,505,512 ordinary shares as part of the consideration for the acquisition of the Boddingtons 
International Limited (see note 30).
On 2 March 2011, the Company announced a rights issue which provided shareholders with the right to acquire one additional ordinary 
share at an issue price of 60p for every three ordinary shares held on 2 March 2011. The rights issue resulted in the issue of an additional 
42,387,882 ordinary shares on 18 March 2011 and raised net proceeds of £23.8 million, consisting of gross proceeds of £25.4 million net 
of issue costs of £1.6 million.
On 19 May 2011, the Company issued 1,805,055 ordinary shares as part of the consideration for the acquisition of Tubex Limited  
(see note 30).
On 3 June 2011, the Company issued 2,226,966 ordinary shares (2010: 217,761) to satisfy LTIP awards granted in 2008 vesting under 
the rules of the LTIP . 217,761 shares were issued on 8 March 2010 to satisfy the 2006 LTIP awards which vested in part due to the part 
satisfaction of the EPS target to which the awards were subject.
27.  Movements on reserves
On demerger in November 2006, former parent company, BBA Aviation plc (“BBA”) waived loans owed to it by Fiberweb entities totalling 
£90.0 million and creating distributable reserves in Fiberweb plc. BBA also converted £87.4 million of debt to equity in Fiberweb plc. 
The merger reserve comprises the excess between the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of the transfer of subsidiaries 
and the book value of those subsidiary investments transferred. 
The other reserve comprises adjustments in respect of the Group reorganisation which took place as part of the demerger. This reserve 
primarily represents the difference between the capital structure of the Fiberweb entities that were owned directly by BBA prior to the 
demerger and the capital structure of Fiberweb plc and its subsidiaries after completion of the demerger restructuring. This reserve is not 
distributable. 
The capital reserve represents amounts accrued in respect of the cost of equity-settled share options in accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-
based Payments” (see note 25). 
The hedging reserve represents unrealised gains or losses on hedge instruments. 
The translation reserve represents the gains or losses on translation of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries. 
28.  reconciliation of movements in total shareholders’ equity
         2011 2010  
         £’m £’m
Comprehensive (expense)/income for the year      (22.7) 10.8
Equity dividends paid to shareholders        (6.0) (5.2)
Movement on reserve for share option costs       0.1 0.4 
Shares issued        28.8 –
Net movement in total shareholders’ equity for the year      0.2 6.0
Total shareholders’ equity at beginning of year      178.6 172.6
Total shareholders’ equity at end of year        178.8 178.6 92    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
29.  Cash flow from operating activities
  2011 2010 
  £’m £’m
Operating profit from continuing operations      8.7 17.3
Operating profit from discontinued operations     12.1 5.2
Pre-tax profit on disposal of Hygiene business     8.9 –
Share of profit from associates      (7.3) (3.4)
Profit from operations      22.4 19.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 12)     26.6 25.7
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 11)      0.6 0.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets      0.6 –
(Profit)/Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment     0.9 (0.5)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions       1.2 (1.6)
Excess of pension scheme contributions over charge     (4.8) (3.0)
Share-based payments (note 25)      0.2 0.4
Profit on disposal of Hygiene businesses (note 30)     (8.9) –
Non-cash impairment and asset write-downs (note 12)     5.1 1.7
Non-recurring profit on sale of previously impaired equipment    (2.6) –
Non-recurring pension curtailment and past service cost gains (note 23)    (8.4) –
Other non-cash items      0.8 0.1
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital     33.7 42.3
Increase in working capital      (9.8) (4.3)
Cash generated by operations      23.9 38.0
Income taxes paid      (3.4) (0.3)
Net cash from operating activities 20.5 37.7
    
30.  Acquisitions and disposals 
Year ended 31 December 2011
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Boddingtons International Limited, a leading specialist geosynthetic and accessory 
manufacturer , the parent company of the Boddingtons group of companies, on 6 January 2011 for approximately £8.2 million total consideration 
consisting of £4.6 million in cash and 4,505,512 Fiberweb plc shares. At acquisition, the Boddingtons Group had net debt of £0.9 million. 
Boddingtons has been integrated into the Group’s Geosynthetics segment. The business has been renamed Fiberweb Geosynthetics.
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of T ubex Limited, the largest European specialist producer of tree shelters, the parent 
company of the Tubex group of companies, on 17 May 2011 for approximately £5.1 million total consideration consisting of £3.85 million 
in cash and 1,805,055 Fiberweb plc shares. At acquisition, T ubex had net debt of £0.1 million. T ubex has been integrated into the Group’s 
Geosynthetics segment.
The Group’s sales would have been £4.4 million higher and operating profit would have been £0.9 million higher had T ubex been acquired 
on 1 January 2011.
The formal review of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is still in progress and will be completed within 12 months 
of the acquisition date of each business. At 31 December 2011, the allocation period for both acquisitions remained open and accordingly 
the fair values presented are provisional. Adjustments are made to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period 
to the extent that further information and knowledge come to light that more accurately reflect conditions at the acquisition date. To date 
the adjustments made have impacted assets acquired to reflect more accurately the estimated realisable or settlement value. Similarly 
adjustments have been made to acquired liabilities to record onerous commitments or other commitments existing at the acquisition date 
but not recognised by the acquire. Adjustments have also been made to reflect the associated tax effects.
The consideration paid in respect of the acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, including the issue of Fiberweb plc shares. 
The fair value of the shares issued as consideration was the market value at the date of the acquisition.
Transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement as non-recurring items.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    93  
30.  Acquisitions and disposals continued
Based on the initial estimate of the fair value of the assets and liabilities for Boddingtons and Tubex at the date of acquisition, the Group 
has recognised provisional goodwill of £3.5 million in respect of Boddingtons and £2.5 million in respect of T ubex. The acquisitions provide 
opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns. This provisional goodwill cannot be allocated to 
identifiable assets and liabilities and reflects:
q 	 	The assembled workforce
q 	 	 The benefits of synergies and economies of scale resulting from the integration with existing Fiberweb businesses. Significant synergies 
will arise from the integration of Boddingtons with T erram and with Acorn and T ubex in the UK.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
A summary of the effect of the acquisitions is detailed below:
     Book value Provisional Fair value 
     at fair value of assets 
     acquisition adjustments acquired 
     £’m £’m £’m 
Intangible assets     0.3 4.7 5.0
Property, plant and equipment     2.9 0.7 3.6
Inventories     2.2 – 2.2
Trade and other receivables     4.7 – 4.7
Trade and other payables     (4.3) (0.2) (4.5)
Bank loans and overdrafts     (1.1) – (1.1)
Finance leases     (0.7) – (0.7)
Cash     0.8 – 0.8
Provisions for liabilities and charges     (0.1) (0.4) (0.5)
Tax and deferred tax     (0.7) (1.5) (2.2)
     4.0 3.3 7.3
Goodwill       6.0
Consideration        13.3
Satisfied by:   
  Cash consideration       8.4
  Shares       4.9
Net debt acquired       1.0
Transaction costs and expenses       0.4
Total expected spend in respect of current year acquisitions    14.7
   
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisition comprised:
Cash consideration       8.4
Net debt acquired       1.0
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions      9.4
Acquisition related costs       0.4
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions     9.8
The fair value of the financial assets includes receivables with a fair value of £4.7 million and a gross contractual value of £4.9 million.  
The best estimate at acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected was £0.2 million. 
The acquired businesses contributed £19.4 million to the Group’s sales and increased the Group’s underlying profit before interest and tax 
for the period by £1.8 million. 94    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
30.  Acquisitions and disposals continued
Disposal of the Hygiene business
On 30 December 2011, the Group disposed of the Hygiene business following the transfer of control to Petropar SA. The business disposed 
differed from the previously disclosed Hygiene segment as the disposal excluded the Drier Sheet business in the US, the T enotex plant in 
Italy, the Biesheim plant in France and the Coronor business in Germany.
The net assets of the Hygiene business at the date of disposal were as follows:
   30 December 
   2011
   £’m
Intangible assets       1.6
Property, plant and equipment       116.4
Investment in associate       61.8
Inventories       15.0
Trade and other receivables       38.9
Amounts owed by Fiberweb Group       1.3
Cash and cash equivalents       3.1
Trade and other payables       (23.6)
Current and deferred tax liabilities       (6.2)
Retirement benefit obligations       (5.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges       (3.2)
Sub-total       199.2
Cumulative translation reserve       (32.9)
Net assets       166.3
Profit on disposal       1.5
Total consideration  167.8
Satisfied by:   
Cash consideration       167.3
Cash disposal costs       (3.0)
       164.3
Vendor Loan Note       16.7
Non-cash disposal costs       (2.3)
Deferred cash disposal costs       (3.5)
Non-cash tax on profit on disposal       (7.4)
  167.8
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:   
Cash consideration received less disposal costs      164.3
Less cash and cash equivalents disposed       (3.1)
  161.2
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows:
  Period ended Year ended  
  30 December 31 December 
  2011 2010
  £’m £’m
Revenue       210.8   194.0
Expenses       (196.6)   (185.9)
Underlying operating profit       14.2   8.1
Finance costs       (0.5)   (0.6)
Profit before tax and non-recurring items       13.7   7.5
Tax on the above       (0.8)   (0.2)
Non-recurring items       (2.6)   (2.5)
– before tax       (2.0)   (2.9)
– tax        (0.6)   0.4
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations      1.5   –
– before tax       8.9   –
– tax        (7.4)   –
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations (attributable to the owners of the company)  11.8   4.8
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    95  
30.  Acquisitions and disposals continued
During the year, the Hygiene business contributed £19.9 million (2010: £1.6 million) to the Group’s net operating cash flows, paid £5.2 million 
(2010: £8.4 million) in respect of investing activities and paid £Nil (2010: £1.4 million) in respect of financing activities.
A gain of £1.5 million arose on the disposal, being the proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of the businesses’ net assets plus disposal 
costs. The proceeds of disposal consisted of $260 million in cash and a $26 million one-year Vendor Loan Note. The consideration is subject 
to a completion accounts process which is still in progress at the balance sheet date.
Disposal costs include various finance costs directly related to the disposal which consist of:
q 	 Write-down of prepaid facility fees of £1.8 million to reflect the reduced RCF following the Hygiene disposal
q 	 	 Break fees and related costs of £0.1 million incurred on the early repayment of the RCF drawdowns with the proceeds of the Hygiene disposal 
q 	 	 Interest rate swap hedge ineffectiveness of £1.2 million arising as a result of cashflows from the underlying RCF drawdowns ceasing to 
be probable as a result of the disposal of the Hygiene business
q 	 	Offset by a credit of £0.8 million in respect of the immediate recognition of past service costs on the post retirement medical benefit 
scheme as a result of the disposal
Within discontinued operations, non-recurring costs include:
q 	 	 A curtailment gain and immediate recognition of a past service cost credit of £2.0 million in respect of changes made to benefits under 
the Group’s US post retirement medical benefit schemes
q 	 	 An impairment charge of £3.0 million in respect of the impairment of assets at the Fiberweb Technical NonWovens in Asia which was 
closed during 2011
q 	 Restructuring costs of £1.7 million 
q 	 Gains on the disposal of land at Peine and Simpsonville of £0.7 million
In 2010, non-recurring items for discontinued operations comprised:
q 	 	Impairment charges of £1.3 million relating to the non-recurring write down of a number of IT assets in our US businesses following the 
closure of a data centre 
q 	 	 Non-recurring restructuring costs of £1.5 million comprising severance costs across the Group from the completion of the restructuring 
programmes
q 	 Share of non-recurring items in the FitesaFiberweb joint venture of £0.1 million
Year ended 31 December 2010
There were no acquisitions or disposals in the year nor were any changes made to the accounting for prior year transactions.
31.  Contingent liabilities
The Fiberweb business is party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business, including specific product 
liability and environmental claims in Fiberweb North America. Any liabilities are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance, reserves 
and third party indemnities.
The Directors do not currently anticipate that the outcome of the proceedings and claims set out above either individually, or in aggregate, 
will have a material adverse effect upon Fiberweb’s financial position.
32. related party transactions
Transactions between Fiberweb plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Details of transactions between Fiberweb and other related parties are detailed below.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate. 
  2011 2010 
  £’m £’m
Short-term benefits      2.4 2.6
Post-employment benefits      0.2 0.1
Termination benefits      0.9 –
Share-based payments      0.2 0.3
 3.7 3.0
Amounts included in the above expense that are outstanding at 31 December 2011 are £0.9 million (2010: £0.3 million). 96    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
32. related party transactions continued
Transactions with associates and joint ventures
Terram Geosynthetics Private Limited
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group invested £0.8 million to acquire a 26% interest in associate Terram Geosynthetics 
Private Limited in India. In addition, Terram Limited sold previously impaired production equipment to the associate for proceeds of £1.75 
million, recognising a gain on disposal, after elimination of the 26% unrealised portion of the gain, of £0.8 million within non-recurring cost of 
sales. This investment was impaired by £0.6 million during 2010 as it is no longer considered to be recoverable.
Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited
In connection with the acquisition of the remaining 35% share in Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens Company Limited for RMB 
9,120,000, the Group paid RMB 5,472,000 during the year. The balance of the purchase price of RMB 3,648,000 was payable in the year 
ended 31 December 2010 and was included within Trade and Other Payables at 31 December 2010. RMB 250,000 is also included within 
Administrative expenses in 2010 for rent of the plant from the ex-joint venture partner. 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture
FitesaFiberweb was formed on 31 July 2009. It was subsequently disposed on 30 December 2011 as part of the disposal of the hygiene 
business. In accordance with a Transition Services Agreement signed on completion, the Group continues to provide certain administrative 
support services for FitesaFiberweb, primarily in connection with accounting, IT and human resource support. The Group also provides R&D 
services for the joint venture. Administrative support services are charged at cost plus an appropriate mark-up, based on either time spent 
or volume of transactions processed. R&D fees are charged at an agreed rate per volume of product sold. 
  2011 2010 
  £’m £’m
Amounts included in Other Operating Income (note 4):  
Transition services provided (administrative & IT support) 0.9 0.9
Research and development fees 0.4 0.4
  1.3 1.3
Amounts included in Other Receivables (note 16) 0.4 0.3
The amounts outstanding at 31 December are unsecured and will be settled in cash. As part of the FitestaFiberweb joint venture’s financing 
arrangements, the Group provided a guarantee for a loan of £24.9 million. This guarantee will be released following the disposal of  
the Hygiene business (see note 34). During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group received a fee for this guarantee of £0.2 million 
(2010: £0.1 million). 
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Other related party transactions
      2011 2010 
      £’m £’m
Net amounts owed by BBA – tax indemnity (see note 16)    3.6 3.6
33. Subsidiary and associated undertakings
The detailed list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2011 is shown in note 3 to the 
Company Financial Statements.
34. Subsequent events
Following the disposal of the hygiene business on 30 December 2011, the consideration of $260 million was held on Trust at 31 December 
2011 for the repayment of amounts due under the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility. The amounts due were repaid on 5 January 2012. 
In addition, the interest rate swaps held against the RCF were broken and settled in January 2012.
Under the terms of the joint venture agreement with Petropar SA, the Group guaranteed its 50% share of certain debt in the resulting 
FitesaFiberweb joint venture up to €30 million. Petropar SA undertook to secure the formal release of Fiberweb from its obligations under 
this guarantee by the date of completion of the disposal of the hygiene business. The condition for release was waived at completion in the 
expectation that release would be obtained soon thereafter. 
The closure of the final T erram line in Pontypool is scheduled for mid-2012 following the successful commissioning of the needlepunch line 
at Maldon. No amounts have been provided in these financial statements for the closure costs and related redundancies which are expected 
to be in the range of £1.5 to 2.0 million.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    97  
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which 
comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 
to 14. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.  
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
q 	 	give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2011
q 	 	have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
q 	 	have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
q 	 	the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
q 	 	the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
q 	 	adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
q 	 	the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
q 	 	certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
q 	 	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of 
Fiberweb plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
John Adam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, UK
29 February 2012
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Fiberweb plc 98    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2011
   2011 2010 
  Note £’m £’m
Fixed assets   
Investments in subsidiaries 3 120.1 309.7
Property, plant and equipment 4 0.3 0.5
   120.4 310.2
   
Current assets   
Debtors 5 59.3 33.8
Cash at bank and in hand   171.9 5.7
Corporation tax  – 0.1
 231.2 39.6
   
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year   
Trade and other creditors 6 (45.6) (11.0)
Bank loans and overdrafts 7 (157.8) (1.3)
 (203.4) (12.3)
   
Net current assets  27.8 27.3
   
Total assets less current liabilities  148.2 337.5
   
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year   
Bank loans 7 – (169.7)
NeT ASSeTS 148.2 167.8
   
CAPiTAL AND reSerVeS   
Called-up share capital 9 8.7 6.1
Share premium account 10 110.8 84.5
Capital reserve 11 0.8 1.0
Profit and loss account 12 27.9 76.2
  13 148.2 167.8
The financial statements of Fiberweb plc, registered number 05683352, were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue 
on 29 February 2012. They were signed on its behalf by:
Daniel Abrams
Director
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the 
year. Fiberweb plc reported a loss for the year ended 31 December 2011 of £42.3 million compared to a loss in 2010 of £1.9 million.
The Company audit fee is included within the Group audit fee in the current year and cannot be separately identified.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet. Notes to the Company Balance Sheet
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    99  
1.  basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical 
cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law and accounting standards. They have also been prepared on the 
going concern basis as described in the Going Concern Statement 
in the Directors’ Report on page 39 of the Group’s Annual Report. 
The principal accounting policies are set out below. They have all 
been applied consistently throughout the period.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in 
FRS1 “Cash Flow Statements” and has not produced a cash flow 
statement. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
contained in FRS8 “Related Party Transactions” and has not 
reported transactions with fellow Group undertakings. 
investments
Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at 
cost less provision for impairment. Given that Group Reconstruction 
Relief is available under section 611 of the Companies Act 2006 
(“the Act”), the Company has taken advantage of the related option 
under section 611(1) of the Act to record the cost of the investments 
in Terram and the US subsidiaries at the nominal value of the shares 
issued in satisfaction of the acquisition. 
Treasury
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the 
rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet 
date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. 
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent 
to the date of transaction is recognised in the income statement. 
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for and presented 
under FRS26 (Revised) “Financial Instruments – Measurement” 
and FRS25 “Financial Instruments – Disclosure and Presentation”. 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Company comprise 
foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity 
derivatives. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to 
manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in 
line with the Group’s risk management policies. All derivative 
instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. 
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends 
on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type 
of exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of gains or losses on hedges is deferred in 
reserves until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in 
the income statement. The ineffective portion of such gains and 
losses is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 
income statement as they arise. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at 
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual 
interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the 
profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Share-based payments 
Fiberweb plc operates four share-based compensation plans 
which are detailed in note 25 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Under FRS 20 the equity-settled share-based 
payments under these schemes are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is 
expensed within staff costs in the income statement on a straight 
line basis over the vesting period based on the Group’s estimate 
of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of 
non-market based vesting conditions.
The fair value of shares awarded under the plans has  
been calculated using the stochastic pricing model using  
the market value of shares adjusted to take into account market 
based performance conditions where applicable. The charge  
is adjusted each year to reflect the expected and actual level  
of vesting.
Tangible fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet 
at cost. Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of 
property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and 
is calculated on a straight line basis over the following estimated 
useful lives of the assets:
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease
Office fixtures and equipment 3-5 years
Plant and equipment  10 years 100    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
1.  basis of accounting continued
Leases 
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights 
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as 
if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are 
shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values of 
the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter 
of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets 
concerned. The capital elements of future leases are recorded as 
liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the income 
statement over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate 
of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding. 
For all other leases (operating leases), the rental payments are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the 
lives of the leases. 
Pension and post-retirement benefits 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are 
charged as an expense as they fall due. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes 
into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities. In accordance with FRS 
19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that 
it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities have not been discounted. 
2. Dividends
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a final 
dividend of 2.0 pence per share (2010: 2.50 pence per share) will 
be paid to shareholders on 25 May 2012. This dividend is subject 
to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in 
accordance with FRS 21, “Events after the Balance Sheet Date”, 
has not been recorded as a liability in these financial statements.  
The proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the 
Register of Members on 25 April 2012. The total estimated dividend 
payable is £3.5 million (2010: £3.1 million).
3.  investments 
 Investment in Loans to 
 subsidiaries subsidiaries Total  
Cost and carrying value £’m £’m £’m
As at 1 January 2011 42.9 266.8 309.7
Loans repaid in the period – (188.0) (188.0) 
Additions in the period 53.8 – 53.8
Disposed in the period (53.8) – (53.8) 
Exchange losses – (1.6) (1.6)
As at 31 December 2011 42.9 77.2 120.1
The following is a list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2011, each of which is 
wholly-owned unless otherwise stated. Subsidiaries marked * are owned directly by the company.
 Country of 
 incorporation 
 and principal
Name operation
Subsidiaries  
Fiberweb (Tianjin) Speciality Nonwovens  
Company Limited  China
Fiberweb France SAS France
Fiberweb Holdings Deutschland GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Berlin GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Linotec GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Blowitex GmbH Germany
Fiberweb Asia Pacific Limited Hong Kong
Fiberweb Italia SpA Italy
Korma SpA Italy
T enotex SpA Italy
Fiberweb Holdings Limited * UK
Fiberweb US Holdings Limited * UK
T erram Limited * UK
Fiberweb Geosynthetics Limited UK
 Country of 
 incorporation 
 and principal
Name operation
Subsidiaries
T ubex Limited UK
Fiberweb Joint Venture 1 Limited * UK
Fiberweb Joint Venture 2 Limited UK
Fiberweb Brazil Limited UK
Fiberweb Washougal, Incorporated USA
Fiberweb Incorporated USA
Fiberweb Industrial T extiles Corporation USA
Fiberweb USA Holdings, Incorporated USA
  
Associates and
other investments  % interest
Cordustex (Pty) Limited 10 South Africa
T erram Geosynthetics 
Private Limited 26 India
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    101  
4.  Property, plant and equipment
  Leasehold Fixtures &  
  improvements fittings Total 
  £’m £’m £’m
Cost   
At 1 January 2011 0.2 0.7 0.9
Additions – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2011 0.2 0.8 1.0
   
Accumulated Depreciation   
At 1 January 2011 – (0.4) (0.4)
Depreciation charge for the year (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 December 2011 (0.1) (0.6) (0.7)
    
Net book value    
31 December 2011 0.1 0.2 0.3
31 December 2010 0.2 0.3 0.5
5.  Debtors
     2011 2010 
     £’m £’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    40.1 30.2
Other debtors    17.5 1.4
Prepayments    0.2 0.2
Guarantee fee    0.7 1.9
VAT recoverable    0.8 0.1
 59.3 33.8
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings comprise management recharges, group insurance recharges and loan interest invoiced during 
the year.
Restricted cash – The Group received the $260 million proceeds from the disposal of the Hygiene business on 30 December 2011.  
This money was held on Trust at 31 December 2011 to be used to pay down the Group’s outstanding debt under the Revolving Credit 
Facility. The cash was used to repay the outstanding drawdowns under the RCF on 5 January 2012.
6.  Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
          2011 2010 
          £’m £’m
Trade creditors         4.1 1.0
Accruals and deferred income         10.4 8.0
Other taxes and social security         0.8 0.1
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings         29.6 –
Guarantee fee         0.7 1.9
          45.6 11.0
As part of the separation plan in advance of the Hygiene disposal, the Company issued a Promissory note to Fiberweb Italia SpA which is 
included within amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings.  102    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011
7. bank loans and overdrafts
      2011 2010 
      £’m £’m
Bank loans and overdrafts – repayable within one year    158.4 1.3
Bank loans and overdrafts – repayable in 2-5 years    – 173.6
Less: unamortised prepaid facility fees     (0.6) (3.9)
      157.8 171.0
A new loan facility (“the new RCF”) was entered into in February 2010 for a term of 3½ years until July 2013 and for an amount of £200 million, 
comprising multi-currency facilities of €110 million and US$170 million. Following the disposal of the Hygiene business on 30 December 
2011, all outstanding RCF balances were committed to be repaid and were repaid in full on 5 January 2012. The RCF multi-currency facilities 
were reduced to €30 million and US$40 million. The term of the facility is unchanged.
The majority of borrowings are arranged at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to interest rate risk, against which the Group seeks 
to protect itself through interest rate swaps. Details can be found in the notes to the Group statutory financial statements (see note 21). 
Following the repayment of the outstanding RCF balances in January 2012, the interest rate swaps held against these drawdowns were 
terminated.
At year end the Group had available $Nil (2010: $27.8 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. Following the Hygiene disposal,  
the amounts outstanding under the RCF were repaid on 5 January 2012 and the full facilities under the revised RCF were undrawn.
8. Share-based payments
Since demerger, Fiberweb has issued its own share-based payment compensation plans. These plans are explained in detail in note 25 to 
the consolidated financial statements. 
9. Called-up share capital
          2011 2010 
          £’m £’m
Authorised: 200 million ordinary shares of 5p each        10.0 10.0
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p         8.7 6.1
Number of shares in issue    
At 1 January         122,658,136 122,440,375
Issued to satisfy LTIP awards         2,226,966 217,761
Issued to satisfy rights issue         42,387,882 –
Issued on Boddingtons acquisition         4,505,512 –
Issued on Tubex acquisition         1,805,055 –
At 31 December         173,583,551 122,658,136
On 10 January 2011, the Company issued 4,505,512 ordinary shares as part of the consideration for the acquisition of the Boddingtons 
International Limited (see note 30 to the Group accounts).
On 2 March 2011, the Company announced a rights issue which provided shareholders with the right to acquire one additional ordinary 
share at an issue price of 60p for every three ordinary shares held on 2 March 2011. The rights issue resulted in the issue of an additional 
42,387,882 ordinary shares on 18 March 2011 and raised net proceeds of £23.8 million, consisting of gross proceeds of £25.4 million net 
of issue costs of £1.6 million.
On 19 May 2011, the Company issued 1,805,055 ordinary shares as part of the consideration for the acquisition of T ubex Limited (see note 
30 to the Group accounts).
On 3 June 2011, the Company issued 2,226,966 ordinary shares (2010: 217,761) to satisfy LTIP awards granted in 2008 vesting under the 
rules of the LTIP .
217,761 shares were issued on 8 March 2010 to satisfy the 2006 LTIP awards which vested in part due to the part satisfaction of the EPS 
target to which the awards were subject. Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    103  
10. Share premium account
         2011 2010 
         £’m £’m
At 1 January      84.5 84.5
Issued to satisfy rights issue      21.7 –
Issued on Boddingtons acquisition      3.4 –
Issued on Tubex acquisition      1.2 –
At 31 December 110.8 84.5
11. Capital reserve
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payments, equity settled share-based payments are credited to an equity reserve. The Company 
recognised a total expense in relation to share-based payments under equity-settled schemes of £0.3 million (2010: £0.4 million).
            2011 2010 
            £’m £’m
At 1 January          1.0 1.2
Share-based payments charge          0.3 0.4
Share options lapsed           (0.5) (0.6)
At 31 December  0.8 1.0
12. Profit and loss account
            2011 2010 
            £’m £’m
At 1 January           76.2 82.7
Dividends paid          (6.0) (5.2)
Share options lapsed and deferred tax on options          – 0.6
Loss for the year          (42.3) (1.9)
At 31 December 27.9 76.2
The loss for the year was due primarily to a loss on disposal and related transaction costs arising on the disposal of the hygiene business 
(see note 30 of the consolidated financial statements).
13. reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
            2011 2010 
            £’m £’m
At 1 January           167.8 174.5
Loss for the year          (42.3) (1.9)
Dividends paid          (6.0) (5.2)
Reduction in capital reserves          (0.2) (0.2)
Share options lapsed and deferred tax on options         – 0.6
Increase in share capital          2.6 –
Increase in share premium          26.3 –
At 31 December  148.2 167.8
Equity comprises share capital, share premium, capital reserve and retained earnings.
14. related party disclosures
For periods beginning before 6 April 2008, FRS 8.3(c) provided an exemption from disclosure in the financial statements of subsidiary 
undertakings, 90 per cent or more of whose voting rights are controlled within the group, of transactions with entities that are part of the 
group or investees of the group qualifying as related parties, provided that the consolidated financial statements in which that subsidiary is 
included are publicly available. 
This paragraph is amended in the revised Standard and in the Companies Act 2006, for periods beginning on or after 6 April 2008, so that 
the exemption includes the parent company as well as subsidiaries and so deals with intra-group transactions with 100% subsidiaries. 
However it does not provide exemption from disclosure of transactions with partly owned subsidiaries or with parties outside the group.  
The Company wishes to take advantage of this exemption therefore only these transactions are disclosed. These can be found in the notes 
to the Group statutory financial statements (note 32).  104    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Five Year Review
  2011 2010 2009 2008  2007
(1)
  £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
results
Revenue 297.8 269.2 254.2 255.4 218.7
Underlying profit from operations 10.8 20.9 14.7 5.6 5.3
Net finance costs (15.9) (14.8) (9.1) (9.3) (10.0)
     
Underlying profit before tax (5.1) 6.1 5.6 (3.7) (4.7)
Restructuring costs and other non-recurring items (2.1) (3.6) 0.8 (30.2) (72.7)
Total profit/(loss) before tax (7.2) 2.5 6.4 (33.9) (77.4)
     
Profit/(loss) attributable to the equity holders 
of Fiberweb plc 8.8 7.2 0.5 (22.0) (112.5)
     
Assets employed     
Non-current assets 149.9 324.7 322.3 354.7 299.7
Current assets 287.4 167.1 153.8 191.1 173.3
Current liabilities (228.2) (89.4) (94.9) (126.0) (104.8)
Non-current liabilities (30.3) (223.8) (208.6) (223.2) (182.9)
Net assets 178.8 178.6 172.6 196.6 185.3
     
(Loss)/earnings per share (1.8)p 1.8p 3.4p (25.0)p (53.8)p
     
Adjusted
(2)
 (loss)/earnings per share (0.8)p 4.5p 4.7p (2.6)p (3.4)p
(1)  
  Figures for the years ended 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2010 are presented for continuing operations following the disposal of 
the Hygiene Wipes business in May 2007 and the disposal of the Hygiene business in December 2010.  
(2)
   Adjusted earnings per share is shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other 
non-recurring items because the directors consider this gives a better indication of underlying performance.  Designed and produced by Weber Shandwick Financial Design
printed by park Communications
Shareholder information
Analysis of Shareholdings
Ordinary shareholdings at 31 December 2011
Dividend Re-investment Plan
The Company has a Dividend Re-investment plan (“DRip”) which 
allows private shareholders to reinvest cash dividends from their 
investments cheaply and easily back into Fiberweb plc shares 
and so obtain the benefits of compounding.
The DRip is managed by Capita iRG Trustees Limited which is 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Full 
details of the DRip and its charges, together with mandate forms, 
are available from the Registrars.
Share Dealing Services
A quick and easy share dealing service is available to either buy or 
sell Fiberweb plc shares. An on-line and telephone dealing facility 
is available providing shareholders with an easy to access and 
simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, 
please contact the registrars at www.capitadeal.com (on-line 
dealing) or 0871 664 0364 (telephone dealing – calls cost 10p per 
minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30am – 4.30pm  
Mon-Fri).
Shareholder Communication
From 2012 we will be using our website as our main method of 
communicating with shareholders. This is a more efficient, cost-
effective and environmentally friendly method of communication 
and we are actively encouraging shareholders to sign up to e-mail 
communication. Electronic communication allows you to access 
all your shareholder documents quickly and easily online. 
Registration is via the Capita Registrars website www.
capitashareportal.com. On the registration page you can review 
the questions and answers section for further information on 
electronic communication with shareholders.
You are also able to register for news alerts on our website  
www.fiberweb.com/alerting so that you are notified by e-mail 
whenever we release trading updates and other announcements 
to the London Stock Exchange. 
Key dates
Financial year end  31 December 2011
Final dividend ex dividend date 25 April 2012
Final dividend record date 27 April 2012
Annual General Meeting 2 May 2012
Final dividend payment date 25 May 2012
 
half year end  30 June 2012
half year results announcement Estimated during August 2012
interim dividend payment date Estimated during November 2012
Share price information
The price of the Company’s shares is available on the Company’s 
website at www.fiberweb.com/investors. 
Registered office
Forsyth house, 211-217 Lower Richmond Road, Richmond on 
Thames, London TW9 4LN.
Company number: 05683352
Company Secretary
Anthony O’Carroll
Company Registrar
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU.
T elephone: 0871 664 0300
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 
8.30am – 5.30pm Mon-Fri).
E mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Web site: www.capitaregistrars.com
please contact the registrars directly if you wish to advise a 
change of name, address or dividend mandate. Alternatively, you 
can view up to date information and manage your shareholding 
through our Registrars’ Share portal where you will be able to 
access and maintain your holding at your own convenience. You 
will require your unique investor code, which can be found on your 
share certificate or dividend tax voucher. The URL for the portal is 
www.capitashareportal.com.
  % of total Number % of
 Number of number of of shares share  
 shareholders shareholders held capital
1 – 1,000 2,293 66.44 595,147 0.34
1,001 – 5,000 536 15.53 1,272,627 0.74
5,001 – 10,000 206 5.97 1,547,491 0.89
10,001 – 50,000 227 6.58     4,794,260 2.76
50,001 – 100,000 49 1.42 3,441,663 1.98
100,001 upwards 140 4.06 161,932,363 93.29
 3,451  173,583,551 
 
Holders    
individuals 2,681 77.69 11,333,545 6.53
Deceased Accounts 34 0.99 17,090 0.01
investment Trusts 1 0.03 8,000 0.01
pension Funds 7 0.2 22,635 0.01
Nominee and  
other Companies 698 20.23 161,521,242 93.05
Limited Companies 19 0.55 262,715 0.15
Bank and  
Bank Nominees 5 0.14 276,971 0.16
Other institutions 6 0.17 141,353 0.08
 3,451  173,583,551 
FibeRweb PLC  ANNUAL REpORT AND FiNANCiAL STATEMENTS 2011    105   www.fiberweb.com
