 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
This has been a year of excellent progress 
across the Group, building on our position 
as the leading transport provider .
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality 
and reliable services throughout our business. 
The safety of our passengers and employees 
is our highest priority and we strive to lead the 
industry in this area and achieve the highest 
possible standards across the Group. 
44 Consolidated balance sheet
45 Consolidated cash flow statement
46 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
80 Independent auditors’ report
82 Group financial summary
83 Company balance sheet
84 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
90 Independent auditors’ report
91 Shareholder information
92 Financial calendar
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
3 Chief Executive’s review
17 Finance Director’s review
22 Board of Directors
24 Corporate governance
31 Directors’ remuneration report
38 Directors’ report
41 Directors’ responsibilities
42 Consolidated income statement
43 Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
FirstGroup plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Principal and Registered Office
FirstGroup plc
395 King Street
Aberdeen AB24 5RP
Telephone: 01224 650100
Facsimile: 01224 650140
Registered in Scotland
number SC157176
London Office
FirstGroup plc
50 Eastbourne Terrace
Paddington
London W2 6LX
Telephone: 020 7291 0505
Facsimile: 020 7636 1338
www.firstgroup.com Annual Report and Accounts 2007
This has been a year of excellent progress 
across the Group, building on our position 
as the leading transport provider .
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality 
and reliable services throughout our business. 
The safety of our passengers and employees 
is our highest priority and we strive to lead the 
industry in this area and achieve the highest 
possible standards across the Group. 
44 Consolidated balance sheet
45 Consolidated cash flow statement
46 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
80 Independent auditors’ report
82 Group financial summary
83 Company balance sheet
84 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
90 Independent auditors’ report
91 Shareholder information
92 Financial calendar
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
3 Chief Executive’s review
17 Finance Director’s review
22 Board of Directors
24 Corporate governance
31 Directors’ remuneration report
38 Directors’ report
41 Directors’ responsibilities
42 Consolidated income statement
43 Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
FirstGroup plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Principal and Registered Office
FirstGroup plc
395 King Street
Aberdeen AB24 5RP
Telephone: 01224 650100
Facsimile: 01224 650140
Registered in Scotland
number SC157176
London Office
FirstGroup plc
50 Eastbourne Terrace
Paddington
London W2 6LX
Telephone: 020 7291 0505
Facsimile: 020 7636 1338
www.firstgroup.com Group overview
We are the leader in safe, innovative, reliable,
sustainable transport services – global in scale
and local in approach.
UK Rail: We are the UK’ s largest rail
operator running nearly a quarter of the
UK passenger rail network and carrying
some 260 million passengers a year .
We have a strong, balanced portfolio and we are the only
operator to run every type of overground rail service in the
UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight sleepers
to local branch lines, regional and commuter services and
open access, light rail and freight operations. We operate
four passenger rail franchises: First Capital Connect, First
Great Western, First ScotRail and First T ransPennine
Express. We also operate Hull T rains, a non-franchised open
access operator . We also provide freight services through
GB Railfreight and operate the Croydon T ramlink network
which carries over 24 million passengers per annum. We
have a strong track record of innovation and investment
delivering improved services, such as new rolling stock
and customer facilities across our rail operations.
Our fleet of nearly 9,000 buses carries 2.9 million
passengers every day in over 40 major towns and cities.
The majority of our operations are in urban areas where 
the bus is the most effective means of tackling traffic
congestion. We continue to develop and promote 
effective partnerships and we are working with local
authorities and other stakeholders to provide punctual 
and reliable services for passengers through Punctuality
Improvement Partnerships, bus priority and other traffic
management schemes.
First Student
We are the second largest provider of student transportation in
North America with a fleet of approximately 22,000 yellow school
buses, operating every day across the US and Canada. We are
dedicated to providing the safest and most efficient student
transportation service in North America. Our ethos is ‘A safer 
and better way to the school day’.
First Transit
We are one of the largest private sector providers of transit
management and contracting, managing public transport systems
on behalf of transit authorities in cities such as Los Angeles,
Houston and Denver . We are also one of the largest providers of
airport shuttle bus services in the US, serving airports in cities 
such as Baltimore, Philadelphia and Miami. We also manage call
centres, paratransit operations and other light transit activities.
First Services
Our Services division is the largest private sector provider of
vehicle maintenance and support services in the US. We provide
fleet maintenance for private and public sector customers such as
the Federal Government, cities and fire and police departments.
We also provide a range of services including vehicle maintenance,
logistics support and facilities management to public and private
sector clients including the US Navy and US Air Force.
UK Bus: We are the UK’s largest bus
operator , running more than one in 
five of all local bus services.
North America: Headquartered
in Cincinnati, Ohio, our three 
divisions have operations across 
the US and Canada.
UK Bus operations UK Rail operations
First ScotRail
Hull Trains
First Great Western
First TransPennine 
Express
First Capital Connect
GB Railfreight
Sleeper Trains are shown as 
dotted lines in the corresponding 
rail company colour.
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
First Student
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
St. Croix, 
Virgin Islands
Puerto Rico
First Services
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Puerto Rico
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
First Transit
Designed by Pauffley.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, a Carbon
Neutral
®
company.
The paper used to produce this Report is
made from Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF)
pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
The inks are vegetable based. The printer 
and manufacturing mill is accredited with 
the ISO 14001 Environmental Management
System (BS-EN-ISO12001:2006). 
When you have finished with this Report,
please dispose of it responsibly. Group overview
We are the leader in safe, innovative, reliable,
sustainable transport services – global in scale
and local in approach.
UK Rail: We are the UK’ s largest rail
operator running nearly a quarter of the
UK passenger rail network and carrying
some 260 million passengers a year .
We have a strong, balanced portfolio and we are the only
operator to run every type of overground rail service in the
UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight sleepers
to local branch lines, regional and commuter services and
open access, light rail and freight operations. We operate
four passenger rail franchises: First Capital Connect, First
Great Western, First ScotRail and First T ransPennine
Express. We also operate Hull T rains, a non-franchised open
access operator . We also provide freight services through
GB Railfreight and operate the Croydon T ramlink network
which carries over 24 million passengers per annum. We
have a strong track record of innovation and investment
delivering improved services, such as new rolling stock
and customer facilities across our rail operations.
Our fleet of nearly 9,000 buses carries 2.9 million
passengers every day in over 40 major towns and cities.
The majority of our operations are in urban areas where 
the bus is the most effective means of tackling traffic
congestion. We continue to develop and promote 
effective partnerships and we are working with local
authorities and other stakeholders to provide punctual 
and reliable services for passengers through Punctuality
Improvement Partnerships, bus priority and other traffic
management schemes.
First Student
We are the second largest provider of student transportation in
North America with a fleet of approximately 22,000 yellow school
buses, operating every day across the US and Canada. We are
dedicated to providing the safest and most efficient student
transportation service in North America. Our ethos is ‘A safer 
and better way to the school day’.
First Transit
We are one of the largest private sector providers of transit
management and contracting, managing public transport systems
on behalf of transit authorities in cities such as Los Angeles,
Houston and Denver . We are also one of the largest providers of
airport shuttle bus services in the US, serving airports in cities 
such as Baltimore, Philadelphia and Miami. We also manage call
centres, paratransit operations and other light transit activities.
First Services
Our Services division is the largest private sector provider of
vehicle maintenance and support services in the US. We provide
fleet maintenance for private and public sector customers such as
the Federal Government, cities and fire and police departments.
We also provide a range of services including vehicle maintenance,
logistics support and facilities management to public and private
sector clients including the US Navy and US Air Force.
UK Bus: We are the UK’s largest bus
operator , running more than one in 
five of all local bus services.
North America: Headquartered
in Cincinnati, Ohio, our three 
divisions have operations across 
the US and Canada.
UK Bus operations UK Rail operations
First ScotRail
Hull Trains
First Great Western
First TransPennine 
Express
First Capital Connect
GB Railfreight
Sleeper Trains are shown as 
dotted lines in the corresponding 
rail company colour.
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
First Student
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
St. Croix, 
Virgin Islands
Puerto Rico
First Services
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Puerto Rico
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
First Transit
Designed by Pauffley.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, a Carbon
Neutral
®
company.
The paper used to produce this Report is
made from Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF)
pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
The inks are vegetable based. The printer 
and manufacturing mill is accredited with 
the ISO 14001 Environmental Management
System (BS-EN-ISO12001:2006). 
When you have finished with this Report,
please dispose of it responsibly. 1 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial highlights
£108.8m
UK Rail operating profit up 36.7%
£103.0m
UK Bus operating profit up 4.7%
$130.5m
North America operating profit 
up 8.6%
22.4%
increase in revenue to
£3,708.8m
9.1%
increase in adjusted basic
earnings per share to 33.7p
10.0%
increase in dividend per share 
to 15.5p 
2007 2006
Revenue (£m) 3,708.8 3,030.9
Adjusted operating profit
1
(£m) 259.2 229.7
Operating profit (£m) 203.6 210.7
Adjusted profit before taxation
1
(£m) 195.8 176.4
Profit before taxation (£m) 140.2 157.4
Adjusted basic EPS
1
(pence) 33.7 30.9
Basic EPS (pence) 23.1 27.4
Adjusted EBITDA
2
(£m) 398.9 351.7
Adjusted EBITDA: interest cover
3
6.3x 6.6x
Net debt (£m) (516.2) (704.4)
Share price at year end (pence) 665 425
1
Before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets
2
Adjusted operating profit as defined above plus depreciation
3
Adjusted EBITDA divided by the net of finance costs and investment income 2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s statement
The Board’s commitment to increase
dividends by 10% for a further three
years reflects our confidence in the
Group’s strong cash generation and
prospects for further growth. 
I am delighted to report a very successful year for the
Group delivering on our clear strategy to profitably grow in
our core markets and create further value for shareholders.
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality and reliable
services throughout our business. The safety of our
passengers and employees is our highest priority and we
strive to lead the industry in this area and achieve the
highest possible standards across the Group. 
This has been a year of excellent progress across our
business. We achieved a record set of results with revenue
increased to £3,708.8m (2006: £3,030.9m) and adjusted
profit before tax (before intangible asset amortisation, 
non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and loss
on disposal of fixed assets) increased to £195.8m (2006:
£176.4m). Profit before tax was £140.2m (2006: £157.4m)
reflecting higher one-off costs primarily as a result of 
non-recurring rail franchise mobilisation costs and lower
property results. I am very pleased that the Group has
delivered this strong performance despite the additional
fuel cost increase during the year which impacted Group
operating profit by £37.1m. EBITDA (Group operating
profit* plus depreciation) increased to a record £398.9m
(2006: £351.7m) and cash generation has been excellent.
Adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 9.1% to
33.7p (2006: 30.9p). The Board has proposed a final
dividend, subject to approval by shareholders, of 10.5p
making a full year payment of 15.5p, an increase of 10%.
The dividend is covered 2.2 times, before intangible asset
amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring
items and loss on disposal of fixed assets. It will be paid on
24 August 2007 to shareholders on the register on 20 July
2007. The Board’s commitment to increase dividends by
10% for the foreseeable future, at least for a further three
years, reflects our confidence in the Group’s strong cash
generation and prospects for further growth. 
On 9 February 2007 we were delighted to announce the
proposed acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. the
leading provider of school and intercity bus transportation
and a supplier of public transit services in North America.
Following the approval for this transaction from both our
shareholders and Laidlaw stockholders on 20 April 2007
we now only await the necessary antitrust regulatory
approvals in the US and Canada for completion. We
believe this transformational acquisition will significantly
enhance shareholder value and underpins future growth.
The integration of Laidlaw with FirstGroup gives us a
unique opportunity to become the leading operator in the
large, fragmented North American transport market and
leverage value through scale. We have an excellent track
record of successfully acquiring and integrating businesses
and we are excited by the opportunities this acquisition 
will bring to increase the service offering to customers. 
We recognise that our staff are our greatest asset. On
behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank all of our staff for their continued hard work and
commitment in delivering another excellent year for the
Group. I would also like to welcome new employees who
have joined our businesses in the UK and North America
during the period. 
I am very pleased with the progress achieved by the Group
this year building on our position as a leading transport
provider . We are delivering on our clear strategy to create
shareholder value by sustainable growth in our core
businesses and exploring opportunities to develop in new
markets. We have made a significant investment in our
business to ensure that we offer the highest level of service
to our customers and we remain committed to increasing
the dividend by 10% per annum for the foreseeable future.
This is an exciting time for the Group as we consolidate our
position in the highly attractive North American market and
continue to deliver improved operating performance and
revenue growth in our UK businesses. The Board is
optimistic about the opportunities for the business and
looks forward to the future with confidence.
Martin Gilbert
Chairman
*Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit
before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring
items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets. 3 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s review
All of our businesses have delivered a
very strong performance. Our strategy
is focused on delivering high quality
services for customers and value 
for shareholders.
Overview
Safety
The safety and security of our passengers and staff is
fundamental to everything that we do. We continually seek
to improve the safety culture throughout our business and
apply a ‘zero tolerance’ approach to unsafe acts and
practices. Over the past few years we have made great
strides in improving our working practices and procedures
and in monitoring our performance in this area. We are
never complacent and continually strive to meet the
highest possible standards of safety for our passengers
and staff. For example, our Injury Prevention Programme
(IPP) is not only innovative but unprecedented in our
industry. I am pleased to report that IPP has been rolled out
across all of our operations and is designed to engage all
our staff and encourage good safety practices to embed
the safety culture in all of our operations. 
Results
I am delighted with the excellent performance of the 
Group which has delivered a record year of growth. 
Group revenue increased by 22.4% to £3,708.8m (2006:
£3,030.9m). Adjusted operating profit was £259.2m 
(2006: £229.7m). This strong performance is all the more
notable as we have faced strong headwinds during the
year , primarily the significant rise in fuel costs. In these
results operating profit was impacted by £37.1m by
additional fuel costs. Foreign exchange translation on
North American results reduced sterling earnings year on
year by £3.8m - the average rate for 2006/07 was $1.89
compared to $1.79 for 2005/06. Profit before tax was
£140.2m (2006: £157.4m) reflecting higher one-off costs
primarily as a result of non-recurring rail franchise
mobilisation costs and lower property results. Strong cash
generation is a feature of this business and I am pleased to
report that the Group generated record EBITDA (adjusted
operating profit plus depreciation) of £398.9m (2006:
£351.7m) an increase of 13.4%, enabling us to continue 
to invest in the business as well as increasing the dividend
by 10% for the third consecutive year .
UK Rail
The UK Rail division operates passenger and freight
services in the UK. We have a strong, balanced portfolio 
of intercity, regional and commuter franchises. Passenger
rail franchises consist of First Great Western, First Capital
Connect, First T ransPennine Express and First ScotRail.
We also operate Hull T rains, a non-franchised open access
intercity passenger train operator , and we provide rail
freight services through GB Railfreight. We are the UK’s
largest rail operator carrying almost 260 million passengers
per annum.
Results
Our successful rail division has delivered its best ever 
year of growth. We are committed to the long-term
development of railways in the UK and are investing to
deliver improved services for passengers. We are the 
only operator to run every type of overground rail service 
in the UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight
sleepers to local branch lines, regional and commuter
services and open access, light rail and freight operations.
We will continue to build on our reputation of investment,
innovation and customer service. 
Operating profit
UK Rail £108.8m
UK Bus £103.0m
North America £68.2m
Excluding central items of £20.8m
Revenue
UK Rail £1,824.1m
UK Bus £1,073.7m
North America £802.9m
Excluding other revenue of £8.1m 4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Revenue in the Group’s rail division increased by 56.6% 
to £1,824.1m (2006: £1,164.9m) and operating profit
increased by 36.7% to £108.8m (2006: £79.6m) reflecting
a full year contribution from the new and enlarged rail
franchises together with strong volume growth across 
our network. Across all of our rail operations we have
experienced good growth in passenger volumes. 
First Great Western
At First Great Western we are working hard to ensure that
we deliver our franchise plans and we are investing £200m
to improve the services we offer our customers. Since 
we commenced operation of the new enlarged franchise
(combining First Great Western, First Great Western Link
and Wessex T rains) we have integrated three diverse
railway businesses into one operation. First Great Western
operates more high speed trains into London than any
other operator and provides train services for 1.5 million
passengers each week. 
During the past 12 months we have consolidated depots,
introduced a new management structure and common
systems, brought together 4,400 staff, introduced new
amalgamated timetables, commenced a substantial fleet
refurbishment programme and started the many major
improvements which we committed to as part of our
franchise. Despite our best efforts to ensure a seamless
transition we faced some operational challenges
principally as a result of changing the rolling stock
maintenance depot and the introduction of a new
consolidated timetable. We made great efforts to swiftly
rectify those issues, the majority of which we have now
overcome. The new timetables which will be introduced in
May and December this year will further improve services. 
As part of our £145m investment to completely overhaul
the High Speed T rain (HST) fleet, we have commenced the
installation of new more reliable, environmentally friendly
engines. We have already fitted 42 new engines which
have improved operating performance, doubled reliability,
cut CO2 emissions by 64% and smoke emissions by 42%.
The remainder of these new engines will be in place by 
the end of this year . We are also making good progress 
on our fleet refurbishment programme. A new stylish and
contemporary interior for the HST s will offer a step change
in quality for rail passengers and provide an additional 
3 million seats for passengers per annum. The first of these
new designed carriages are now in service and we are 
on track to complete the refurbishment of more than 
405 carriages by the end of the financial year . We are also
spending £4m on an interior refresh of our fleet of regional
trains. The new platform at Bristol Parkway opened in May
2007 and will ease congestion of trains into and departing
from the station and reduce delays for passengers
travelling to London, Wales, Birmingham and the South
West. We are working with Network Rail to upgrade the
majority of the Reading to London relief line to 90mph 
by mid-2008 creating greater capacity, reliability and
improved journey times for commuters in the Thames
Valley. We have progressed our plans to deliver a range 
of improvements across the franchise area including the
installation of automatic ticket gates at Exeter St Davids,
Plymouth and Swindon, reducing both ticket fraud and
crime on the railways. We have also invested in station
A year into the franchise First
Capital Connect is working on 
a range of initiatives to increase
capacity across the network.
We have started a programme
to refresh our Class 319 trains,
part of our £30m investment in
the train fleet.
Discounted tickets such 
as First Great Western’s
‘firstminutefares’ have been 
a big success. More than
100,000 are available each
week and 2.2 million have
been sold in just nine months,
saving customers £28m
compared with the equivalent
‘walk up’ fares.
As we improve our services to
give people a real alternative to
using cars and other transport
modes, bus and rail passenger
numbers continue to increase
with strong volume growth in
both our UK Bus division and
across our UK Rail division. 5 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
improvements such as the installation of more than 120
additional ticket vending machines, increased car parking
at stations, refurbished facilities and waiting areas at 
a number of stations across our network. We have
simplified our fares structure and now offer more than
100,000 significantly discounted tickets each week for
advance purchases and off peak travel. For example,
‘firstminutefares’ enables our customers to save up to
80% on regular fares when booking early. This has been
very popular and already more than 2.2 million tickets have
been sold saving customers a total of £28m compared to
the equivalent ‘walk up’ fare. First Great Western faces
major challenges from ageing infrastructure and the effect
this has on performance. We are working closely with
Network Rail, the infrastructure provider , to tackle the
deep-rooted performance issues on the network and
overcome the recurring infrastructure problems on our
main line. A number of initiatives have been designed to
improve performance and we are committed to working 
in partnership to deliver improved infrastructure and
services across our network. 
First Capital Connect
First Capital Connect, which operates across London and
the South East, had an equally busy first 12 months of
operation and made an overall improvement in operational
performance. PPM, the industry measurement of
punctuality and reliability, improved to over 88% and 
we were particularly pleased to achieve the highest ever
recorded PPM of over 95% on the Great Northern part of
the network. We are investing £55m, the majority in the first
three years of the franchise term, to improve the service we
offer our customers. During the year we commenced the
refurbishment of waiting rooms and facilities at a number
of our stations across the network. In addition we
embarked on a programme to refresh the interiors of our
Class 319 fleet. Eight units have already been completed
and we will continue to roll this out to the remaining units 
in due course. In December last year we announced a
further investment of £2m, over and above our franchise
commitment, to improve the interiors of the trains that
operate on the Great Northern route. This additional work,
which will improve on-board comfort for passengers,
commenced in March 2007 and will be completed by the
end of the year . During this period we also brought the
engineering of our fleet in house which delivered greater
service quality and cost efficiency. In April 2007 we
First Capital Connect has
invested £1m to provide 
24 Police Community Support
Officers and five British
Transport Police Officers for
the network and has started to
introduce gatelines at stations
to further improve security for
customers and employees.
Our £145m ‘Refresh’
programme of the First Great
Western HST fleet will improve
reliability, deliver punctuality
benefits and enhance our
customers’ journeys. New
engines for the entire HST fleet
will reduce fuel consumption
by 15% and carbon dioxide
emissions by 64%.
First Great Western and
Network Rail are investing 
£1 billion across the franchise 
in the next two years. Our
investment will improve
punctuality and reliability 
and provide customers 
with an additional 3 million 
seats a year. 
HST investment
£145m 6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
welcomed the announcement by the Department for
T ransport that the remaining 12 Class 319 trains will 
be transferred to First Capital Connect from Southern
Railway. These trains will provide up to 8,000 extra 
seats per day during the peak periods and help to ease
crowding on our very busy Thameslink route. In addition
improvements to be introduced in the May timetable will
also increase capacity at peak times, providing more 
seats for customers in the morning and evening peak with
additional services and an increased number of carriages
on some of our busy routes. One of our key priorities is to
improve security on the network and reduce ticket fraud
through improved revenue protection. We have provided
customers with improved ticketing facilities and have
already reduced revenue leakage through the introduction
of additional staff to carry out further ticket checks and 
the installation of automatic ticket gates at a number of
stations across the network including Blackfriars, City
Thameslink and Stevenage. Further automatic ticket 
gates will be installed at key stations across the network 
in the coming months. We have also invested over £1m 
to provide additional Police Community Support Officers
and British T ransport Police to serve our network. These
initiatives are proven to improve security, reduce ticketless
travel and lessen vandalism.
First ScotRail
We are proud to operate Scotland’s train services through
our First ScotRail operation. Since we took over the
franchise in October 2004 we have established a
successful record of delivering improved services for
passengers together with a strong focus on operating
performance and service quality. We have reduced
operator delays, for which we are responsible, by some
39%, over and above our franchise commitment of 2% 
per annum. Performance has continued to improve over
the year and we are now regularly running services at 
more than 90% punctuality. We were pleased to record 
the highest PPM performance in seven years for the last
period. In addition customer satisfaction has been
recorded at its highest level and outperformed the average
for regional train operators. During the year we continued
to invest in fleet reliability and passenger comfort and also
provided additional services to meet demand such as
increased late night services on 18 routes out of Glasgow
Central on Fridays. Increased security and revenue
protection is a key priority and we have installed automatic
Overall customer satisfaction
with First ScotRail has reached
its highest ever level at 88%,
according to a survey by
Passenger Focus. Punctuality
and reliability are improving
across the network and First
ScotRail has reduced delays 
by 39% since the start of the
franchise in October 2004.
Our successful and innovative
freight business GB Railfreight
has won £45m in new contracts
with customers including Royal
Mail, Metronet, Serco Rail
operations and Drax Power and
added to its fleet with a £28m
investment programme. 
At First TransPennine Express
we have invested £250m in
new trains, improved station
facilities and delivered a more
punctual and reliable service.
Customer satisfaction has
increased and we were
awarded four titles at the
HSBC Rail Business Awards
2006, including ‘Rail Business
of the Y ear’.  7 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
ticket gates at stations including Aberdeen, Ayr , Dundee
and Stirling. Security is further enhanced by the installation
of CCTV on almost the entire First ScotRail fleet and we 
are continuing our investment programme to roll out 
CCTV , customer information systems, induction loops 
and help points at stations across the country. Over the 
last year a number of investments have been made to
improve the level and availability of facilities at stations in 
Scotland. In February 2007, an extension to Haymarket
Depot in Edinburgh was opened. This extension of two
maintenance facilities will assist in further improving 
the reliability of the Class 170 and Class 158 fleets, by
providing the opportunity for more trains to be maintained
more quickly.
First TransPennine Express
First T ransPennine Express had another successful year
with excellent operational performance coupled with
strong revenue and volume growth reflecting the high
demand for its services in the region. Passenger journeys
increased by 7.3% to 18.5 million during the year . 
Our focus on performance has ensured that PPM is
consistently over 90% and overall customer satisfaction
has exceeded the national average for all train operators.
Since we commenced operation of the franchise two 
years ago we have introduced an entire fleet of brand new
100mph Siemens trains which have a range of new, high
quality features such as improved seating, air conditioning,
on-board security cameras and easier access for all
passengers. We continued our station investment
programme during the year and spent £2m refurbishing
waiting areas and customer and staff facilities. We secured
additional funding from the Department for T ransport to
provide accessibility improvements such as automatic
doors, disabled facilities and ticket counters at stations
across our network. During the year we successfully
managed the integration of the Manchester Airport to
Blackpool routes which we took over in June 2006. 
We have demonstrated our competence in delivering 
the process both smoothly and cost efficiently. From
December 2007 we will further extend our T ransPennine
network to operate the Manchester Airport to Glasgow 
and Edinburgh services. We are very proud of our
achievements at First T ransPennine Express and were
delighted that our efforts were recognised by the industry
when we were awarded an unprecedented four national
awards, including ‘Rail Business of the Y ear’ at the HSBC
Rail Business Awards 2006. 
Hull Trains
Hull T rains, our non-franchised, open access intercity 
train company operating between London Kings Cross
and Hull, performed well during the year with strong
passenger volume growth which increased by 30%. In
December we were pleased to be awarded an additional
train path by the Office of Rail Regulation bringing our
number of weekday services to seven in each direction.
This clear response to passenger demand ensures that 
we can offer our customers a greater choice and level 
of service. Our focus on operational performance has
ensured that we are once again ranked as the most reliable
long distance operator on the East Coast Mainline with
performance figures that exceed the industry average for
long distance operators. 
First Great Western is
introducing new and improved
catering services including 
a redesigned buffet and an
extended at-seat service.
Every year First Great Western
customers consume nearly 
1 million litres of tea and
coffee, 400,000 litres of
mineral water and over 
1 million sandwiches.
Hull Trains introduced an
additional weekday service
between Hull and London
Kings Cross taking its total
number of weekday services 
to seven in each direction. 
Over 2 million passengers have
now used Hull Trains services.
First TransPennine Express 
has introduced an entire fleet 
of new trains. This, combined
with our focus on performance
and customer service, has led
to passenger satisfaction
reaching a record high. 8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
GB Railfreight
We are pleased with the progress of GB Railfreight (GBRf),
our innovative and demand responsive freight company.
GBRf enjoyed another successful year winning further
contracts worth some £45m to provide rail freight services
around the UK for customers such as Drax Power , 
EDF Energy, Mendip Rail and Serco. In addition, we were
pleased that Royal Mail extended a contract for GBRf 
to move mail by rail, demonstrating the success of the
operation and the service provided. In August 2006 we
successfully commenced a significant contract to
transport infrastructure materials for Metronet as part 
of the renewal programme on the London Underground. 
In March 2007 we were pleased to run the first freight train
transporting coal between the Port of T yne directly into
Drax Power Station in North Y orkshire. We have invested 
in a number of freight locomotives and wagons in order to
support the new contracts and the ongoing development
of the business. GBRf has delivered further growth and
contract wins through the development of its innovative
and customer focused business model and we are
optimistic about the future prospects for this business.
New franchises
This has been a busy year for the Group as we
commenced operation of our two franchises First Great
Western and First Capital Connect and integrated the 
new areas with existing operations. We are committed to 
a long-term future in the UK’s railways and are delighted to
be shortlisted for three further franchises: East Midlands,
New Cross Country and InterCity East Coast. We have 
an impressive and unrivalled track record of integrating
services and delivering on large investment programmes.
Our bid team is highly experienced and committed to
delivering plans that meet the needs of passengers by
bringing new investment and improved services that are
cost efficient. 
North America
In North America the Group is currently the second largest
provider of student transportation with approximately
22,000 yellow school buses operating every day across
the US and Canada. We operate a transit contracting and
management business in North America and we have a
services division providing fleet maintenance and ancillary
services to public and private sector clients. 
Our North American business has delivered solid and
consistent returns for shareholders since we entered the
market in 1999. During that time we have generated
$1,335.8m of EBITDA. This division is cash generative after
self-financing maintenance capital expenditure, organic
growth within existing contracts and the acquisition of
small in-fill businesses.
Our successful growth in North America confirms our 
view that this is a highly attractive market which offers
significant growth opportunities for our business. We 
have built up significant experience and expertise in 
this marketplace and believe that it offers opportunities 
to deliver further attractive earnings growth and value 
for shareholders. 
On 9 February 2007
FirstGroup announced 
the $3.6 billion proposed
acquisition of Laidlaw
International, Inc. the leading
operator of school buses, the
provider of Greyhound bus
services and a supplier of
public transit services in 
North America.
At First Student over 6,500
drivers have now been trained
in the Smith System Advanced
Driving module, which focuses
on ‘five keys to safe driving’.
All our North American
operating companies now
participate in the Automotive
Service Excellence (ASE)
programme for training 
and testing technicians. 9 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Results 
I am pleased with the performance of our North American
division which delivered margin improvement during the
year . Revenue from our three businesses was £802.9m 
or $1,522.4m (2006: £826.3m or $1,476.0m). Revenue in
these results is £45.8m lower than the prior year due to
foreign exchange movements. Operating profit increased
to £68.2m or $130.5m (2006: £67.1m or $120.2m) despite
absorbing additional fuel costs of $11.2m or £5.9m. 
First Student
We have had a successful year within our school bus
business despite continued fuel cost pressure. US Dollar
revenue increased by 5.4% and operating profit rose by
14.7%. During the year we have worked hard to mitigate
the impact of cost pressures through the contract 
renewal cycle and have won or renewed business on 
terms which reflect the increased costs that we face.
Margin enhancement has been a priority for us this year 
and through contract bidding, tight management of
controllable costs and a strong focus on productivity 
we have improved margins to 10.9% (2006: 10.0%). 
We enjoyed a good bidding season with contract 
retention, which is a key feature of this business, at over
95%. We continued to grow our share of this large, 
fragmented market through a mixture of new contract
wins, organic growth and in-fill acquisitions. During the
year we expanded into Sedona, Arizona and we won 
a significant contract in Savannah, Georgia. In addition 
we completed five tuck-in acquisitions in New Jersey,
Connecticut, New Y ork and Illinois that either complement
our existing operations or enable us to enter new markets.
We were pleased to retain almost 100% of our business 
in Canada which remains an attractive market for First
Student in which we aim to grow further .
Looking forward we had a successful bidding season 
and continue to focus on profitable growth and margin
enhancement. Our strategy is to continue to improve our
product offering and closely manage our cost base in order
to offer a compelling service to our customers, parents 
and students. This year sees the further rollout of new
technology such as GPS and Zonar equipment which
provides us with detailed and accurate information which
will enable us to schedule services and labour more
efficiently as well as provide our customers with real time
information about services.
First Transit
First T ransit had a successful year with US Dollar revenue
increased by 1.7% and operating profit by 15.6%. Our
strategy to improve the margin and implement a significant
cost control and efficiencies programme throughout the
division has delivered good results with margin increased
to 4.9% (2006: 4.3%).
During the year we continued to grow the business with the
award of new business including paratransit contracts in
California and Ohio. We also continued to grow our share
of the outsourced call centre market with a new contract in
Oregon. This is in line with our strategy to further penetrate
the faster growing light transit markets in North America.
We now operate ten call centres in cities such as Chicago,
Denver , Hartford, New Y ork and Portland. 
4.6m
calls handled 
every year
First Transit is the industry
leader in specialised
transportation management
services with more than 
20 paratransit management
contracts nationwide. Our 
call centres handle over 
4.6 million transportation 
calls every year.
First Student carries over 
1 million students to and 
from school every day. From
Alaska to Florida and from
Massachusetts to California the
primary focus and mission of
our drivers and technicians is
to transport students in safety.
The proposed acquisition 
of Laidlaw will create a strong
platform to secure long-term
growth in our North American
business. On completion, the
deal will create North America’s
leading transport services
company operating over 
60,000 yellow school buses. 10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We were also awarded new transit management business
through contracts won in Iowa, Ohio, T exas and Virginia.
We were pleased to win the contract to operate more 
than 170 buses in El Paso, T exas and renew a contract in
Minnesota for an additional five years. The private shuttle
bus market is an area of growth for First T ransit and during
the year we acquired Cognisa. This in-fill acquisition 
further strengthened our presence in the US private shuttle
bus market with 19 customer contracts located across 
seven states. First T ransit is one of the leading providers 
of shuttle bus services with contracts to serve airports in
cities such as Cincinnati, Houston, Miami, Philadelphia,
Portland and Las Vegas. I am pleased with the progress
made at First T ransit this year . This business, which
requires little or no capital expenditure, has improved its
margin and continues to deliver returns. We continue to
grow our expertise in this market and develop potential 
for future profitable growth. 
First Services
This year First Services, which provides a range of
outsourced vehicle maintenance, operations and 
support services in the private and public sectors, 
renewed a significant contract within the large, federal
market. US Dollar revenue was, as anticipated, down 
by 1.9% reflecting the renewal, at a lower margin, of 
a substantial contract to provide land-based support
services to the US Navy. This important contract with
revenues of over $450m over the term was re-awarded 
to First Services for ten years in July. Our strategy is to
achieve organic growth within the existing contract
through the provision of additional add-on services. We
also won new business in the large federal market through
the award of a contract to provide support services to the
Defense Logistics Agency in San Joaquin, California. 
We expanded our fleet maintenance business with new
business wins for the City of Newport, Rhode Island and
Ocean T ownship, New Jersey and with customers such 
as Eastman Chemical, Allegheny Power and Motiva Shell.
Looking ahead our focus is to achieve organic growth
within the large federal contracts and continue to use our
expertise and strong track record of customer service to
grow in these areas.
Proposed acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc.
On 9 February 2007 the Group announced the proposed
acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc., the leading
At First Student our driver
turnover has reduced by 3.5%
this year. Our management has
been working hard to identify
ways to improve driver retention
including an increased emphasis
on communication to ensure
good information flow and
enable employees to raise 
any concerns. 
Thousands of First Student’s
buses utilise the latest, state-
of-the-art safety and security
advances, including GPS 
and Zonar, a hand-held
computerised inspection tool
used by school bus drivers prior
to and following every bus trip.
We continue to invest in the
latest technology to ensure the
safety of the students we carry.
First Student successfully
retained over 95% of its
contracts which came up 
for renewal during the year.
First Student has more than
doubled in size since we
entered the North American
market in 1999 by winning 
new business, organic growth
and in-fill acquisitions.
Our First Vehicle Services
location in Fort Wayne, Indiana
was named most efficient fleet
at the ‘Best Fleets in North
America’ awards. Fort Wayne
operates a 1,400-vehicle fleet
with a 99% average overall
vehicle availability and has
reduced maintenance costs 
by 15% over the last decade.  11 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
operator of school and intercity bus transportation and 
a supplier of public transit services in North America for a
consideration of $3.6 billion. We have received approval
from both FirstGroup and Laidlaw shareholders, and the
acquisition now remains conditional on the receipt of
necessary antitrust approvals in the US and Canada. 
We are working with the relevant antitrust authorities 
to provide the necessary information, including the
Department of Justice to comply with their second 
request process.
This is a transformational deal with considerable 
prospects for value creation. This is a unique opportunity
to establish the leading position in the North American
transportation market and generate significant value and
returns for shareholders. In bringing together FirstGroup
America and Laidlaw we believe we can create a stronger ,
more robust business in a highly fragmented market. 
We aim to leverage value through scale and grow earnings
through improved operating efficiencies and extraction 
of substantial synergies. This acquisition will provide 
a strong platform for us to improve our offering to
customers by bringing further operational and cost
efficiencies, economies of scale and a greater range of
services. Since the announcement we have made good
progress on a number of plans for the integration of 
the businesses.
Laidlaw International, Inc. has some 62,500 employees
and operates three main business segments in the US 
and Canada: 
Laidlaw Education Services which operates approximately
40,000 yellow school buses in 37 states in the US and six
provinces in Canada.
Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled
intercity bus transportation services in the US and Canada.
Greyhound provides scheduled passenger services to
approximately 2,400 destinations throughout the US and
Canada carrying approximately 24 million passengers
annually. We consider Greyhound to be an attractive
business with exciting growth prospects and have
committed to carry out a strategic review of the business.
Laidlaw T ransit Services provides municipal public
transportation services in North America specialising 
in paratransit and fixed route contract services in
approximately 23 states in the US.
UK Bus
The Group is the largest bus operator in the UK with a fleet
of nearly 9,000 buses and a market share of approximately
23%. We carry over 2.9 million passengers every day. 
Results
I am pleased to report another year of strong trading
performance from our UK Bus division. Revenue increased
to £1,073.7m (2006: £1,031.2m) as a result of revenue and
passenger growth initiatives and increased journeys
including concessions and pricing. Operating profit was
£103.0m (2006: £98.4m). This is a particularly notable
achievement as operating profit was adversely impacted
by £28.2m as a result of increased fuel costs. 
This year First Vehicle Services
introduced an online quarterly
customer service survey. Over
90% of our customers are
either ‘satisfied’ or ‘very
satisfied’ with the service 
that is delivered.
First Student has worked 
very hard to progress its safety
culture and safety performance.
This year we achieved
significant reductions in
employee injuries, collisions
and passenger injuries.
First, Sheffield City Council and
South Y orkshire Passenger
Transport Executive signed
‘The Sheffield Bus Agreement’,
a Voluntary Quality Partnership
Agreement that will lead to a
range of significant measures,
including £16.9m of funding,
that will benefit millions of 
First customers in Sheffield
each year. 
First Transit’s acquisition of
Cognisa more than doubled
our shuttle bus business
adding a further 19 customer
contracts located in seven
states across the US. 12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We continue to deliver improvements in operational
performance and efficiency within the business. T argeting
improvements in quality, allied to initiatives to tightly
control our costs, continues to underpin our strategy of
margin enhancement. Depot and route optimisation, a
focus on headway management together with revenue and
passenger growth initiatives, contributed to a turnaround
in profitability and service quality of operations. We are
also implementing a programme to target a consistent
level of fleet cleanliness and appearance. I am pleased to
report that the significant investment in our maintenance
and engineering functions in recent years, and the
implementation of initiatives to improve engineering
efficiency and planning and to standardise our processes,
has continued to reduce our lost mileage this year .
In London we have focused on operational performance
and cost efficiencies and are pleased to report that our
overall punctuality and reliability has improved again this
year . Our operations in the West of London are currently
top of the T ransport for London (TfL) league tables. In
preparation for the western extension of the Congestion
Charge, TfL increased the frequency of a number of our
services to provide additional passenger capacity. 
We welcome the Government’s commitment to buses and
its recognition that buses are a crucial part of our transport
system, set out in ‘Putting Passengers First’. We believe
that the industry has demonstrated that the most effective
way to deliver better services to passengers is through
voluntary partnership agreements. Working in partnership
with local authorities to deliver improved bus services for
passengers continues to deliver encouraging results in our
business. Passenger numbers are increasing throughout
our operations, supported by growing numbers of
concessionary fares passengers benefiting from the
Government’s introduction of a new scheme in April 2006.
We are seeing particularly strong growth in passenger
numbers where, working in partnership with local
authorities, we are delivering measures to improve the
punctuality and reliability of our services. 
We are pleased to report the commitment of local
authorities across the UK to delivering improved bus
services for passengers through partnerships. In
November we signed a ‘Stability and Growth Pact’ with
Glasgow City Council and Strathclyde Partnership for
T ransport. The pact will bring major improvements to
Glasgow’s bus services including an annual Route
Development Plan, a Joint Performance Improvement 
Plan to make significant improvements in punctuality and
reliability and sustained growth in bus passenger numbers
with a commitment for reasonable fares. The pact builds
on the city’s award-winning £30m Streamline Partnership
between First and Glasgow City Council, Strathclyde
Passenger T ransport and the Scottish Executive last year . 
At the start of May 2007 we signed ‘The Sheffield Bus
Agreement’, a Voluntary Quality Partnership (VQP)
Agreement with Sheffield City Council and South Y orkshire
Passenger T ransport Authority. We believe that this
agreement is the most comprehensive VQP ever agreed.
The agreement will give customers a more stable network
and improve the reliability of bus services by delivering
We have been working hard 
to improve connectivity with
many airports across the 
UK and Ireland and have
introduced Y ork Aircoach, 
a new service between Y ork
railway station and Leeds
Bradford International Airport.
We are the first major bus
operator in the UK to publish
our punctuality and reliability
data. This is part of our mission
to meet customers’ travel
needs by providing a quality
service in the local area that 
is sustainable, profitable, and
of which we are proud.
We introduced the ‘UK Bus
Engineering Apprentice Awards’
in recognition of the hard work
and dedication of our engineering
talent from across the UK. This
annual event acknowledges
successful completion of
apprenticeships and recognises
individual achievement.
Our UK Bus division was
named winner in the ‘Skills for
Life’ category at the Business
in the Community 2006
awards. This year 1,100 bus
drivers received vocational
qualifications. 20% of our bus
drivers are now qualified with
more planned for this year. 13 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
significant financial investment and improvements to the
city’s bus infrastructure. Over the next two years we will
invest £10m in new vehicles, extra CCTV cameras on
buses and training programmes for staff. The T ransport
Executive and the City Council have invested £4.4m 
during the year and have agreed to invest £2.5m in the
coming year which will be used to fund infrastructure
improvements.
We are working in partnership with the four Unitary
Authorities in the Greater Bristol area to deliver improved
bus services in the region. The authorities have submitted
final plans to the Department for T ransport for ten
‘Showcase’ routes as part of the Greater Bristol Bus
Network. The network will see a major investment of some
£49m in new infrastructure, including bus lanes, road
widening, improved bus stops, enhanced traffic controls
and Real Time Passenger Information as well as some
£20m in new buses. This demonstrates the strong working
relationship which delivered the first Showcase route in
Bristol, now operating very successfully, and a second
Showcase route due for completion later this year . 
All of our operating companies are working on plans to
improve the punctuality of our bus services on a route-
by-route basis. We are the first of the major operators 
to publish punctuality and reliability data by operating
company and are working with local authorities in all of 
our operating areas to develop Punctuality Improvement
Partnerships (PIPs). We developed our first PIP with
Greater Manchester Passenger T ransport Executive and
now have a number of PIPs in progress to deliver improved
bus services for passengers. We continue to address
issues within our direct control, for example, by introducing
new timetables to improve the punctuality of our services.
The PIP process has highlighted that, in order to achieve
improvements in service performance in some cases,
highway alterations and other infrastructure works are
required. Some of these are already being addressed by
our partners.
In January this year we started our second ftr service in
Leeds. ftr was first launched in Y ork in May last year and
uses state-of-the-art articulated tram-like vehicles. We
have seen passenger growth of 28% on the Y ork ftr service
and continue to be encouraged by positive feedback from
our customers, local authorities from across the UK and
from wider stakeholders. Independent customer research
showed an 87% satisfaction rating amongst passengers
using the ftr service. We continue to develop plans for
further ftr services and our scheme in Swansea will start
next year .
We are pleased with the continued development of
Aircoach, which operates express coaches between
Dublin city centre and the airport and contracted services
for airport car parks. The company continued to perform
well during the year and significant passenger growth at
Dublin Airport has benefited both our scheduled and our
contracted car park services. We are using the Aircoach
model to introduce new services in the UK and recently
launched Y ork Aircoach, a frequent, express, direct coach
service between Y ork rail station and Leeds Bradford
International Airport. 
Three years after the initial
group of 36 Polish bus drivers
were deployed to Bath and
Bristol our European Union
recruitment programme has
delivered over 1,200 staff to
our UK Bus division with a
retention rate of over 90%.
ftr is now in its second year
and a new scheme started 
in Leeds in January. We are
delighted by the reaction of
our customers, our employees
and our stakeholders. A
recent independent customer
survey in York showed a
satisfaction rating of 87%.
We have invested more than
£40m in our bus operations 
in Manchester to support
passenger growth. By working
with local authorities we are
delivering more punctual 
and reliable services for 
our customers. 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We welcome the Government’s announcement
encouraging local initiatives in support of improved 
school transport services. We pioneered the introduction
of American style yellow school buses into the UK and 
one of our first pilot schemes in West Y orkshire was 
the precursor to Metro’s MyBus initiative, which has
successfully reduced congestion at the school gates by
giving parents a high quality alternative to using their cars
for the school run. 
Capital expenditure was focused in areas with potential 
for high passenger growth. T owns and cities including
Aberdeen, Bradford, Bristol, Glasgow, Leeds and
Manchester were among those who benefited from our
£57m spend on new low floor , easy access buses this year .
We were delighted that our commitment to investing in our
people at all levels was recognised at the Business in the
Community Awards 2006. The ‘Rentokil Initial Skills for
Life’ award, supported by the Department for Education
and Skills and in association with Investors in People,
recognised our joint strategy, with the T ransport & General
Workers’ Union, to improve recruitment, retention and
motivation. Our learning and development initiatives,
together with improvements to our recruitment and training
programmes and our European recruitment programme,
has reduced driver turnover to an all time low.
Europe
We continue to invest in European bidding activity. We
have submitted bids for Connexxion in the Netherlands
and also, with our partner DSB, for the Øresund rail
franchise which links Denmark and Sweden. While North
America remains our primary market for growth and
international expansion we continue to explore
opportunities in new markets. We recently made a modest
investment in Germany of 130 buses in the Rhein-Neckar
region. This small entry into Germany enables us to build 
a greater understanding of the market as it continues 
to liberalise. 
Group outlook
All of our businesses have delivered a very strong
performance. Our UK Rail division continues to go from
strength to strength. This year we commenced operation
of two new enlarged franchises. We have made significant
investment across all of our rail businesses to deliver
improvements in rolling stock, capacity and services for
passengers. Demand for our services continues to
accelerate with passenger and income growth across all 
of our rail operations. We are delighted to pre-qualify for 
a further three franchises: East Midlands, New Cross
Country and InterCity East Coast and await the outcome
later this year . I am pleased with the strong trading result
from our UK Bus division despite absorbing additional fuel
costs of £28.2m. We have delivered improved operating
performance and volume growth. Increased passenger
journeys, together with our initiatives to grow revenue 
and bear down on costs, have resulted in a strong
performance. We continue to promote a partnership
approach to delivering a comprehensive and sustainable
bus network in the towns and cities where we operate and
have seen encouraging growth as a result. Our North
American business has enjoyed high contract retention
First and the Transport and
General Workers’ Union
signed the first national
agreement on life long learning
that will encourage and
support a culture of learning
and continued personal
development throughout 
the UK Bus division. 
This year Hull Trains became
the latest of our companies 
to achieve the prestigious
Investors in People standard.
We are committed to
continuously improving our
performance by investing 
in our people.
This year we introduced
biodiesel to all of our UK Bus
operating companies and
started a programme to support
fuel efficiency improvements.
All of our new buses have Euro
IV engines further reducing fuel
consumption and carbon dioxide
and other harmful emissions.
The key to having a trained,
motivated and customer
focused workforce is making
sure we recruit and retain the
right staff. Through improved
recruitment processes and a
comprehensive learning and
development programme
driver turnover in our UK Bus
division is at a record low. 15 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
and margin improvement. We are seeing the positive
impact of our strategy to mitigate fuel cost pressures
through the contract renewal process. The Board is
pleased with the consistent returns generated from this
business since we entered the market in 1999 and remains
confident that North America offers further exciting growth
prospects for the Group.
Our strategy is focused on delivering value for
shareholders from further growth within our core
businesses and exploring opportunities to develop in 
new markets. For the third year running we have increased
the dividend by 10% reflecting the Board’s confidence 
in the Group’s future prospects and ability to continue to
generate strong cash flows. We are committed to this level
of annual dividend growth for the foreseeable future, at
least for the next three years. I am pleased to report that
trading in the new financial year has started well and is in
line with our expectations.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
CSR is at the core of our business. We believe that in order
to deliver sustainable growth CSR must be embedded in
the vision and values of a business. Our aim is to transform
the way people travel and how they feel about public
transport. Our management of key issues such as safety,
environment, our relationships with customers and our
employees is at the heart of our strategy and key to
achieving our vision.
This year we reviewed the content of our Code of Business
Ethics and Group Equal Opportunities Policy as part of 
our ongoing efforts to implement best practice in these
areas. After consultation with independent CSR auditors,
corporate governance professionals and our shareholders
we decided to incorporate all of our existing policies into
one Group CSR Policy. 
Safety is our highest priority. We are continuously
developing and improving our processes to ensure that 
a ‘Safety First’ culture is embedded throughout the 
Group. We strive to ensure that our services are as safe 
as possible for our passengers and our staff. Over the last
year we have worked very hard to improve our safety
culture and performance. We have accomplished
significant improvements including significant reductions
in employee injuries, collisions and passenger injuries. 
FirstGroup won the award 
for ‘Continuing Environmental
Excellence’ at the Network Rail
Environment Awards 2006, 
for innovative environmental
initiatives introduced throughout
the Group over the years, which
demonstrated a proactive
approach in all areas of
environmental management,
including our stations and
supply chain.
We are one of the Major
Supporters of Scotland’s bid
for the 2014 Commonwealth
Games. A First ScotRail train,
specially wrapped in the
Commonwealth Games Bid
livery, will travel the length 
and breadth of Scotland in 
the months leading up to the
final decision on the 2014
Host City.
Our Injury Prevention
Programme is innovative,
unprecedented in our industry
and designed to engage all 
our staff in safety and embed 
a safety culture in all of our
operations. This year lost time
injuries have been reduced 
by 31%. 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We have pioneered and rolled out safety standards over
and above the requirements of the safety regulators. Our
Injury Prevention Programme (IPP), which has been rolled
out throughout the Group, is innovative and designed to
engage all our staff in safety. The aim of IPP is to ensure
that action is taken to report any matters of safety and to
resolve them promptly in order to prevent any harm from
occurring to anyone. Lost time injuries across the Group
have reduced by 31% this year . However , we are never
complacent and strive to ensure that we continuously
improve our performance in this critical area.
Our people are often the first point of contact between 
our customers and our business and are central to our
success. Their commitment, dedication and effort are
crucial if we are to meet our customers’ expectations 
and ensure that we are the leader in safe, innovative,
reliable, sustainable transport services. We want to be 
the employer of choice in our industry, offering our staff
opportunities to develop and grow to reach their full
potential. We continue to invest in the training and
development of our employees across the Group. We have
ongoing programmes for employees working towards
recognised training in the form of vocational qualifications.
In UK Bus our successful partnership with the T ransport
and General Workers’ Union to expand our workplace
learning provision continues and we are sponsoring the
Business in the Community ‘Skills for Life’ award this year 
to encourage other employers to follow our lead. In North
America all of our technicians can now participate in the
Automotive Service Excellence Programme designed to
train and test technicians. First Student continues to
promote the ‘Smith System of Defensive Driving’ to further
improve our safety performance and to further reduce the
possibility of incidents likely to lead to passenger or
employee injuries or collisions. 
We continue to receive recognition for improving our
environmental performance. At the Green Apple Awards
we were presented with a gold award in the T ransport,
Freight and Highways category. We also received the
‘Continuing Environmental Excellence Award’ at the
Network Rail Environment Awards 2006 and were runners
up in the National Business Awards for Scotland 2006 in
the ‘Scottish Power Environmental Awareness Awards’. We
are pleased that our commitment to integrating corporate
social responsibility into our business and to managing,
measuring and reporting our key social and environmental
impacts resulted in an improved score in the Business in
the Community Corporate Responsibility Index 2006. 
We also participate in the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index. 
Our CSR Policy, together with our Corporate Social
Responsibility Report, which gives further details of our
activities and progress during the year , can be found at
www.firstgroup.com
Moir Lockhead
Chief Executive
As the UK’s leading public
transport operator we have 
a unique opportunity to
improve the environment 
by helping to reduce traffic
congestion, carbon dioxide
emissions and air pollution. 
We are working hard to 
reduce the environmental
impacts of our operations.
FirstGroup was presented 
with the gold award for our
environmental submission 
in the Transport, Freight and
Highways category at the
2006 Green Apple Awards.
This year , as part of our ongoing
efforts to implement best
practice in these areas, we
produced an updated Group
CSR Policy. After consultation
with independent CSR
auditors, corporate governance
professionals and shareholder
groups we included among
other things, specific reference
to Freedom of Association
through a secret ballot which
employees tell us is important
to them. 17 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Finance Director’s review
2006/07 was a year of significant
achievements in terms of the results
with Group revenue exceeding 
£3.7 billion and adjusted operating
profit exceeding £250 million for 
the first time.
Overview
2006/07 was a year of significant achievements in terms of
the results with Group revenue exceeding £3.7 billion and
adjusted operating profit exceeding £250 million for the 
first time. Our UK Rail and North American businesses 
have reported record earnings and adjusted basic EPS 
and EBITDA are the highest we have ever achieved, up 
9.1% and 13.4% respectively on last year .
The Group is now the UK’s largest passenger rail operator .
At the start of the year we added First Capital Connect 
and the enlarged First Great Western to our portfolio of 
rail franchises. Passenger revenue growth across all T rain
Operating Companies (TOCs) has been very strong and
profits have grown by more than a third. UK Rail generated
over 40% of Group profits.
In February 2007 we announced the acquisition of Laidlaw
subject to shareholder approval and antitrust clearances.
When completed, in excess of 50% of the Group’s 
revenue and adjusted operating profit will come from 
North America. The prospects for value creation are
considerable. In addition to the significant synergies to 
be achieved by combining our current North American
operations with Laidlaw, we will have the scale and
expertise to become our customers’ first choice for 
safety and service quality. 
The net pension deficit has been eliminated and we now
have a net surplus when measured on an IAS 19 basis.
This has mainly been achieved through additional cash
payments into the schemes during the year , further
recovery in equity markets and by limiting future increases
in pension costs. 
One-off costs of £21.3m for rolling stock refurbishment,
redundancy and other mobilisation costs were incurred 
on the start up of the two new rail franchises. These costs
relate entirely to the mobilisation and will not be repeated 
in 2007/08.
We have continued to invest heavily in new buses during
the year in both UK and North America. In addition 
we have invested £110.0m in our UK Rail franchises to
improve capacity, performance and customer service. This
significant investment is likely to be repeated in 2007/08
but thereafter will fall to maintenance requirements only.
Results
Revenue was £3,708.8m (2006: £3,030.9m), an increase 
of 22.4%. Adjusted operating profit was £259.2m (2006:
£229.7m), an increase of 12.8%. Adjusted operating profits
were higher at each division and margin improvements
were made both in North America and UK Bus, despite 
an additional £37.1m of fuel costs year on year . 18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
UK Bus revenue was £1,073.7m (2006: £1,031.2m), an
increase of 4.1% or an increase of 6.0% when adjusted for
last year’s additional days. Operating profit was £103.0m
(2006: £98.4m), an increase of 4.7%. Results were driven 
by strong volume growth, with passenger volumes outside
of London increasing by over 2%. A focus on improving
operational performance and initiatives to tightly manage
controllable costs led to a margin improvement of 0.1%
despite £28.2m of additional fuel costs year on year . 
The new English concessionary schemes for OAPs that
commenced at the beginning of the year stimulated most 
of the growth in passenger numbers. However , better
operational performance also contributed to passenger
growth. During the year a number of bus operating leases
were restructured as finance leases. This has resulted in a
decrease in the charge for the financing element of leases
and an increase in the depreciation charge, both of which
go through the ‘operating cost’ line and an increase in the
charge for finance lease interest which goes through the
‘finance cost’ line.
UK Rail had an exceptional year with strong revenue
growth across all TOCs combined with the two new
franchises. Revenue was £1,824.1m (2006: £1,164.9m), 
an increase of 56.6%. Operating profit was £108.8m 
(2006: £79.6m), an increase of 36.7%. Whilst favourable
economic growth contributed to these results, so too 
did the considerable investment that we are making to
improve services. Both First T ransPennine Express and
First ScotRail are delivering significantly better punctuality
and record customer satisfaction ratings. Both First
Capital Connect and First Great Western are investing in
significant fleet upgrades that will enhance performance,
capacity and customer satisfaction. We have been
shortlisted for three further franchises (InterCity East
Coast, New Cross Country and East Midlands) and 
await the outcome of all three. 
North American revenue was £802.9m (2006: £826.3m).
Although lower in Sterling, at constant exchange rates, this
result represents an increase of 3.1%. Operating profit was
£68.2m (2006: £67.1m). In US Dollar terms this represents
an increase of 8.6%. Overall the North American US Dollar
margin improved by 0.5% to 8.6% despite higher fuel
costs. All three operating divisions enjoyed strong contract
retention over the course of 2006/07. Earnings growth 
was particularly strong in Student and T ransit. Services
profits and margins fell due to the re-tendering of a
significant contract.
Central costs were higher than last year reflecting the
growth in the business as well as an unusually high level 
of corporate activity.
Property
Property losses of £3.7m (2006: profits of £14.0m) 
were incurred during the year . There were no significant
properties disposed of during the year and the loss
incurred was largely due to abortive costs in relation to 
the Aberdeen depot relocation. 
Intangible asset amortisation
The intangible asset amortisation charge was £10.3m
(2006: £4.5m). This increase is mostly explained by higher
pension intangible charges on the new First Capital
Connect and First Great Western franchises. 
Non-recurring bid costs and other non-recurring items
Bid costs of £19.3m (2006: £28.5m) were incurred during
the year . Of this amount UK Rail bids for South Western,
New Cross Country and InterCity East Coast franchises
accounted for £14.5m. Non-rail bid costs of £4.8m (2006:
£2.4m) were incurred principally on European bid activities. 
Y ear to 31 March 2007 Y ear to 31 March 2006
Adjusted Adjusted
operating Operating operating Operating
Revenue profit
1
margin
1
Revenue profit
1
margin
1
Divisional results £m £m % £m £m %
UK Bus 1,073.7 103.0 9.6 1,031.2 98.4 9.5
UK Rail 1,824.1 108.8 6.0 1,164.9 79.6 6.8
North America 802.9 68.2 8.5 826.3 67.1 8.1
Other
2
8.1 (20.8) – 8.5 (15.4) –
T otal Group 3,708.8 259.2 7.0 3,030.9 229.7 7.6
1
Before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets
2
Tram operations, central management, Group information technology and other items
Throughout the Finance Director’s review, operating profit, operating margin and EBITDA are defined as being before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid
costs, other non-recurring items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets.
Finance Director’s review
continued 19 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
UK Rail transition costs of £21.3m (2006: £nil) were
incurred in mobilising the First Capital Connect and 
First Great Western franchises including subsequent
obligations to refurbish trains on both franchises. 
These costs will not recur in 2007/08. 
Finance costs
The net finance cost was £63.4m (2006: £53.3m) with the
increase of £10.1m explained by higher lease finance debt,
higher bank debt and higher US interest rates. The net
finance cost is covered 6.3 times (2006: 6.6 times) by
earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortisation (EBITDA).
Taxation
The taxation charge on profit before intangible
amortisation, non-recurring bid costs and other non-
recurring items was £51.1m (2006: £45.3m) representing
an effective rate of 26.1% (2006: 25.7%). T ax relief on US
intangible amortisation, non-recurring bid costs and other
non-recurring items reduced the tax charge to £38.1m
(2006: £40.0m) representing a rate of 27.2% (2006: 25.4%).
The actual cash effect of taxation to the Group was a
charge of £5.5m (2006: a credit of £3.3m). The UK cash
cost of taxation was low due to increased pension
payments and by favourable UK tax settlements achieved
during the year . It is anticipated that the tax to be paid for
2007/08 will remain low. The Group pays a minimal amount
of tax on its profits in the US due to tax losses carried
forward and we believe that the level of the cash tax in the
US will remain low for the medium term. 
Dividends
The final dividend of 10.5p (2006: 9.55p) per ordinary share
together with the interim dividend of 5.0p (2006: 4.55p) per
ordinary share, gives a full year dividend of 15.5p (2006:
14.1p), an increase of 10.0%. In accordance with IFRS 
the final dividend has not been provided for in the 2007
balance sheet. The final dividend will be paid on 24 August
2007 to shareholders on the register of members at the
close of business on 20 July 2007.
EPS
Adjusted basic EPS, before intangible asset amortisation,
non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items 
and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets, was 33.7p
(2006: 30.9p), an increase of 9.1%. Basic EPS was 23.1p
(2006: 27.4p).
EBITDA
The Group’s businesses continue to generate strong
operating profits which are converted into cash. EBITDA
for the year was £398.9m (2006: £351.7m) up 13.4%.
EBITDA from North American operations was up 4.0% 
in US Dollar terms. EBITDA by division is set out below:
Y ear to 31 March 2007 Y ear to 31 March 2006
Revenue EBITDA EBITDA Revenue EBITDA EBITDA
£m £m % £m £m %
UK Bus 1,073.7 173.6 16.2 1,031.2 157.3 15.3
UK Rail 1,824.1 122.4 6.7 1,164.9 84.9 7.3
North America 802.9 119.2 14.8 826.3 122.0 14.8
Other 8.1 (16.3) – 8.5 (12.5) –
T otal Group 3,708.8 398.9 10.8 3,030.9 351.7 11.6 20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Cash flow
Cash generated by operations increased to £367.9m 
from £300.7m last year as a result of improved profitability,
better management of working capital and cash inflows in
connection with the commencement of the First Capital
Connect franchise. The working capital inflow of £5.5m
(2006: outflow of £27.1m) was mainly due to positive
working capital movements on the new rail franchises
partly offset by additional cash pension contributions.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions
Capital expenditure, as set out in note 15, was £321.6m
(2006: £209.1m). Capital expenditure was predominantly
in North American operations of £48.1m (2006: £65.6m),
UK Bus operations of £141.9m (2006: £102.4m) including
£84.0m of lease restructuring, UK Rail £110.0m (2006:
£16.9m) and UK Bus properties of £19.8m (2006: £15.4m).
The acquisitions made in 2006/07 were five small yellow
school bus operations in North America and one T ransit
shuttle bus operation. The total consideration for all
acquisitions made during the year was £17.9m and
provisional goodwill arising on all acquisitions amounted 
to £9.1m.
Funding and risk management
At the year end, total bank borrowing facilities amounted to
£596m of which £520m is committed. Of these committed
facilities, £318.7m were utilised at 31 March 2007 leaving
committed headroom of £201.3m. 
The maturity profile of committed banking facilities is
regularly reviewed and well in advance of their expiry such
facilities are extended or replaced. 
At 31 March 2007 the Group’s average debt maturity was
6.4 years (2006: 7.8 years). 
As the Group is a net borrower , it minimises cash and bank
deposits, which arise principally in the Rail companies. 
The Group can only withdraw cash and bank deposits from
the Rail companies on a permanent basis to the lower of
retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed
liquidity ratios. 
The Group does not enter into speculative financial
transactions and uses financial instruments for certain 
risk management purposes only. 
Interest rate risk
With regard to net interest rate risk, the Group reduces
exposure by using a combination of fixed rate debt and
interest rate derivatives to achieve an overall hedged
position over the medium term of between 75% to 100%. 
Commodity price risk
In the UK the cost of fuel increased from $38 per barrel 
in 2005/06 to $67 per barrel in 2006/07, an overall cost
increase of £28.2m in UK Bus and £3.0m in UK Rail.
Looking ahead, we now have 100% coverage of our UK
requirements for 2007/08 (total annual usage 2.7 million
barrels) at an average rate of $67 per barrel. In North
America (total annual usage 0.7 million barrels) for 2007/08
we have 27% coverage on crude oil price risk at an
average price of $55 per barrel (2006/07: average of 
$53 per barrel).
Foreign currency risk
Group policies on currency risk affecting cash flow and
profits are maintained to minimise exposures to the Group
by using a combination of hedge positions and derivative
instruments where appropriate.
With regard to balance sheet translation risk, the Group
hedges part of its exposure to the impact of exchange rate
movements on translation of foreign currency net assets
by holding currency swaps and net borrowings in foreign
currencies. At 31 March 2007 33% (2006: 34%) of foreign
currency net assets were hedged.
Finance Director’s review
continued 21 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Fixed Variable Total
Analysis of net debt £m £m £m
Cash – 59.1 59.1
Share placement proceeds deposited
1
– 212.5 212.5
Rail ring-fenced cash and deposits – 139.6 139.6
Sterling bond (2013 6.875%)
2
(296.3) – (296.3)
Bond (2019 6.125%)
3
(221.1) – (221.1)
Sterling bank loans and overdrafts – (264.4) (264.4)
US Dollar bank and other loans and overdrafts (0.3) (0.9) (1.2)
Canadian Dollar bank and other loans and overdrafts (2.2) (35.1) (37.3)
Euro bank loans and overdrafts – (9.4) (9.4)
HP and finance leases (3.7) (78.2) (81.9)
Loan notes (8.7) (7.1) (15.8)
Interest rate swaps, net (57.0) 57.0 –
Total (589.3) 73.1 (516.2)
1
Net proceeds of £216.9m less £4.4m of acquisition costs not related to the equity placement
2
Excludes accrued interest
3
Stated excluding accrued interest and adjusted for currency and coupon swaps
Net debt
Net debt decreased over the year by £188.2m. This
reduction is mainly explained by the share placement in
February 2007, associated with the planned acquisition 
of Laidlaw, which raised £216.9m net of expenses.
The Group’s net debt at 31 March 2007 was £516.2m 
and was comprised as above.
Balance sheet and net assets
Net assets increased by £275.4m over the year reflecting
the net outcome of the share placing of £211.0m (net
proceeds of £216.9m less £5.9m of additional anticipated
costs relating to equity placing), retained earnings (after the
payment of £57.1m of dividends) for the year of £34.6m,
actuarial gains on defined benefit pension arrangements
(net of tax) of £81.9m, an increase in the hedging reserve 
of £24.8m and a net movement in own shares held of
£9.2m. These positive movements were partly offset by 
a reduction in the translation reserve of £85.5m.
Shares in issue
In 2006/07 3.3m treasury shares were used to either satisfy
the exercise of Save As Y ou Earn (SAYE) options on the
maturity of the 2003 SAYE scheme or were transferred 
to the Employee Benefit T rust to satisfy the exercise of
Executive Share Options and Deferred Bonus Shares. 
In February 2007 39.5m shares were placed at 559p per
share, a discount of 1p on the market rate at the time. As at
31 March 2007 there were 434.0m (2006: 392.0m) shares
in issue, excluding treasury shares and 3.3m shares (2006:
6.6m shares) were held as treasury shares at year end. 
The weighted average number of shares in issue for the
purpose of EPS calculations (excluding own shares held 
in trust for employees and treasury shares) was 397.9m
(2006: 392.6m).
Foreign exchange
The results of the North American businesses have been
translated at an average rate of £1:$1.89 (2006: £1:$1.79).
The period end rate was £1:$1.96 (2006: £1:$1.74).
Pensions
The combined rail schemes and UK Bus occupational
scheme are still in deficit but these were more than offset
by the surplus across the Local Government Bus
Schemes. The cash payments in 2007/08 into all the
schemes are unaffected by these changes.
The aggregate pensions deficit of £132m at the start of the
year is now an aggregate surplus of £24m as at 31 March
2007 as measured on an IAS 19 basis. 
The movement in the pension position had three main
elements being the additional cash contributions being
paid into the UK Bus and UK Rail schemes, the continued
recovery of equities and certain measures that limit
pension cost increases going forward.
Dean Finch
Finance Director 22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Board of Directors
Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA
Chairman; 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
3
A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the founders and
Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC. 
He was appointed to the Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
He is Chairman of Chaucer Holdings PLC and a director 
of a number of investment trusts. He is a Non-Executive
Director of Primary Health Properties PLC. Age 51.
Moir Lockhead OBE
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive;
Chairman of the Safety Committee
3,4,5
Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since the Group’s
formation in 1995. Originally a mechanical engineer he
joined Grampian Transport in 1985 as General Manager
and went on to lead the successful employee buy-out of
GRT Bus Group PLC. In 1996 he was awarded the OBE
for services to the bus industry and he is a past President
of the Confederation of Passenger Transport. Age 62.
Dean Finch BSc MBA ACA
Finance Director
4,5
Appointed to the Board as Commercial Director in
February 2004 and subsequently appointed Finance
Director later that year. He is also responsible for all of the
Group’s rail activities including refranchising. He joined 
the Company in 1999 as Commercial Director of the Rail
Division and was subsequently appointed Managing
Director of the Rail Division in August 2001. He qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG where he worked
for 12 years specialising in Corporate Transaction Support
Services including working for the Office of Passenger 
Rail Franchising on the privatisation of train operating
companies. Age 40.
David Leeder BSc FILT
Director of International Development and Marketing
4,5
Appointed to the Board in May 2004. He joined the Group
in 2001 as Managing Director UK Bus and assumed his
present role as Director of International Development and
Marketing in 2005. He has held various senior posts in the
transport industry including Chief Executive of Travel West
Midlands and subsequently Group Marketing Director of
National Express Group plc. He is Vice Chair of the
Commission for Integrated Transport. A Fellow of the
Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, he is also 
a past President of the Confederation of Passenger
Transport. Age 41.
Sidney Barrie LLB
Commercial Director; 
Company Secretary
4,5
Appointed to the Board in August 2005 as Commercial
Director and subsequently Company Secretary. He 
joined the Group from Paull & Williamsons, solicitors 
in Aberdeen, where he was a senior partner and Head 
of Corporate acting for a number of listed and private
companies. He had a long association with the Group in
an advisory capacity going back to the original employee
buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC. In his current role he has
responsibility for a range of commercial activities across
the Group. Age 56.
From left to right:
Martin Gilbert, Moir Lockhead, Dean Finch,
David Leeder, Sidney Barrie 23 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
David Dunn CA
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director;
Chairman of the Audit Committee
1,2,3
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in
December 1999. He is a Chartered Accountant and is
Non-Executive Chairman of Brammer plc. He is also 
a Non-Executive Director of Croda International plc. 
Age 62.
James Forbes CBE MSc BSc CEng MIEE
Non-Executive Director;
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1,2,3
Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is the former
Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Energy plc. 
His career began with the South of Scotland Electricity
Board and he has since held various senior posts in the
electricity industry. Age 60.
John Sievwright MA CA
Non-Executive Director
1,2,3
Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he is a Senior Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer of Global Markets
and Investment Banking for Merrill Lynch & Co. A
Chartered Accountant, he has held various senior
management positions in banking in London, New Y ork,
Dublin and Japan. He is a member of the North American
Board of the Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
Age 52.
David Begg DSc BA
Non-Executive Director
1,2,3
Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in
August 2005. He is Chairman of Tube Lines Limited and
Northern Way Transport Compact. He is an adviser to
Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive 
and is publisher of Transport Times. Until 2005 he was
Chairman of the Commission for Integrated Transport and
a Non-Executive Director of the Strategic Rail Authority. 
Age 50.
Audrey Baxter DBA LLD DipAcc BA
Non-Executive Director
1,2,3
Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in
August 2006. She is Chief Executive of Baxters Food
Group. She has held a number of non-executive positions
and was formerly a member of the Scottish Business
Forum and the Scottish Economic Council. Age 46.
Martyn Williams
Non-Executive Employee Director
Appointed to the Board as Employee Director in January
2003, he is currently serving a second term as Employee
Director. He is employed as a customer services
supervisor in Swansea and has worked for the Group 
for 29 years. Age 52.
1
Member of the Audit Committee
2
Member of the Remuneration Committee
3
Member of the Nomination Committee
4
Member of the Safety Committee
5
Member of the Executive Committee
From left to right:
David Dunn, James Forbes, John Sievwright,
David Begg, Audrey Baxter, Martyn Williams 24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Corporate governance
The Company applies all of the main and supporting
principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by
the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 (the ‘Code’).
The way in which it applies those principles is set out
below. Except as described in paragraph 1.1 (b) below, the
Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1
of the Code. 
1 The Board and its principal committees
Details of the Board, its members and its principal
committees are set out below.
1.1 The Board
(a) Board structure and responsibilities
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four
Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board meets at least eight times each year and is
responsible for setting and reviewing the Company’s
strategy and objectives, reviewing the financial and
operational performance of each of the Group’s business
units, agreeing and reviewing progress against the
Group’s annual budgets and setting and reviewing on a
regular basis its longer-term business plans. It also has a
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including
approval of the annual and interim financial statements,
financing arrangements, material capital commitments,
business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with
regulatory authorities and operating and accounting
policies. 
During the year, the Board met eight times and all
members of the Board attended all meetings held whilst
they were Directors except for Audrey Baxter who was
absent from one of these meetings.
The Board also held a number of separate strategy
meetings.
(b) Board balance and independence
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has
been reviewed against the definition of independence in
the Code. David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John
Sievwright and Audrey Baxter are considered to be
independent within this definition. As Martyn Williams is an
employee of one of the Group’s subsidiaries, he cannot be
considered to be independent. However, the Board feels
very strongly that it is extremely beneficial for its
employees to be represented on the Board in this way so
that important employee-related issues can be raised at
the highest level and a two-way communication process
between the management of the Company and its
employees is maintained. 
Therefore, the Company complies with the Code provision
that at least one half of the Board, excluding the
Chairman, is made up of Non-Executive Directors who are
considered by the Board to be independent. The Directors
are satisfied that the current Board possesses the breadth
of business, financial and international experience
necessary to manage effectively an organisation of 
the size and complexity of the Group.
(c) Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
The Chairman
The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert. He has a
written statement of responsibilities which has been
approved by the Board: 
The Chairman is responsible for:
• leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on
all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into
account the issues relevant to the Group and the
concerns of all Board members;
• ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company
Secretary, the provision of accurate, timely and clear
information to the Board;
• ensuring effective communication with shareholders
and that the Board develops an understanding of the
views of major investors;
• managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is
allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious
issues;
• ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of 
the Board as a whole, its Committees and individual
Directors;
• taking the lead in identifying and meeting the
development needs of individual Directors and the
Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing the overall
effectiveness of the team;
• facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive
Directors and ensuring constructive relations between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
• ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company
Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive
induction programme to ensure their early contribution
to the Board; and
• encouraging active engagement by all members of the
Board. 
The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance
evaluation review, that Martin Gilbert’s significant and in-
depth knowledge and experience of the Group’s business,
combined with his external business experience enables 25 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
him to provide effective leadership of the Board and to
continue to make a positive contribution to the Group’s
ongoing business. 
The Chairman’s other significant business commitments,
which remain unchanged from last year, are described in
his biography on page 22. The Board performance
evaluation process confirmed that the other Board
members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the
necessary time available to devote to the proper
performance of his duties as Chairman.
The Chief Executive
The Chief Executive is Moir Lockhead. The Chief
Executive also has a written statement of responsibilities
which has been approved by the Board:
The Chief Executive is responsible for:
• running the day-to-day business of the Group, within
the authorities delegated to him by the Board;
• ensuring implementation across the Group of the
policies and strategy set by the Board for the Group;
• day-to-day management of the executive and senior
management team;
• leading the development of senior management 
within the Group with the aim of assisting the training
and development of suitable individuals for future
Director roles;
• ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely
manner of the issues facing the Group and of any
important events and developments; and
• leading the development of the Group’s future strategy
including identifying and assessing opportunities for
the growth of its business and reviewing the
performance of its existing businesses.
(d) Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. He is
available to shareholders if they have concerns that
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, 
Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve 
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
(e) Information and professional development of 
Board members
The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be
conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual
Board members have direct access to senior executives
should they wish to receive additional information on any
of the items for discussion. The head of each operating
division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to
ensure that the Board is properly informed about the
performance of and current issues facing that division.
Management give presentations on current issues facing
the business. A number of Board meetings each year are
held on site at operating locations in the UK and US
allowing the Directors to visit the Group’s operations and
to discuss key issues with local operational management
and stakeholders.
All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek
independent professional advice at the Company’s
expense in the furtherance of their duties. The Company
Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on
corporate governance matters and for ensuring
compliance with Board procedures.
Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board,
which is tailored to their individual needs. This includes
meetings with senior management and relevant external
advisers. In addition, information is provided on their
responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and
best practice guidelines. The induction process is
supported during the year by the programme of business
presentations and operational visits described above.
The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes
to the law and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
(f) Performance evaluation
During the course of the year, the Board undertook an
evaluation of its performance. The Chairman led the
process, assisted by the Company Secretary. The
objectives of this exercise were to ensure that the Board,
its Committees and each individual Director continued 
to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities
expected of them, and also to identify any additional
training requirements. A tailored questionnaire was
developed, which each Director completed. The
responses were analysed and discussed at a meeting of
the Board. The Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director led a process of evaluation of the performance 
of the Chairman. No significant issues were raised in the
course of the evaluation process.
(g) Re-election of Directors
As required by the Company’s Articles of Association,
Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once
every three years. Any Director appointed during the year
is required to seek re-appointment by shareholders at the
next Annual General Meeting. The biographical details of
all the Directors, including those seeking re-election at the
2007 Annual General Meeting, are set out on pages 22 to 23. 26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Corporate governance
continued
(h) Appointment of Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for
an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment by
shareholders. They have letters of appointment, which are
available on request for inspection.
(i) Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance
The Company maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability
insurance cover throughout the year as permitted by
section 310 of the Companies Act 1985. The cover was
renewed on 1 April 2007.
2 Committees of the Board
In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees, the terms of reference for which are
published on the Company’s website and details of 
which are set out below, the Board has also delegated
certain matters to Committees. The principal such
Committees are:
2.1 Executive Safety Committee (‘ESC’)
The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a
monthly basis. It comprises the Executive Directors, other
senior managers and safety officers. The ESC reviews the
Group’s safety performance and practices, develops
safety policies and procedures and follows up on
outstanding issues. During the year, a number of meetings
were attended by independent safety experts and senior
representatives of relevant industry bodies, including the
Health & Safety Executive.
2.2 Executive Management Board (‘EMB’)
The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and
certain senior business managers, is chaired by the Chief
Executive. It acts as a general operating management
committee and meets on a monthly basis to review
outstanding issues and to consider the Group’s
operational and financial performance.
2.3 Executive Committee
The Executive Committee comprises the Executive
Directors and meets on an ad hoc basis to consider
matters which arise in the ordinary course of the Group’s
operations. It is chaired by the Chief Executive and has
specific delegated powers within prescribed limits to deal
with matters arising in the ordinary course of business
which need to be considered before the next scheduled
Board meeting.
2.4 Nomination Committee and appointments to the Board
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman
and includes David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, 
John Sievwright, Audrey Baxter and Moir Lockhead. 
Martyn Williams attends meetings of the Committee at the
invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent
the Group’s employees. The Committee meets as required
to discuss appointments to the Board of both Executive
and Non-Executive Directors. Its recommendations are
then put to the full Board for consideration. External
search consultants are used to assist the process, 
where appropriate. 
During the year the Committee did not hold any meetings. 
The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors’
forum, which comprises the Employee Directors and
representatives of each of the Company’s UK subsidiaries,
and serves a maximum of two three-year terms.
The Company’s policy is to permit Executive Directors 
to accept a limited number of outside non-executive
directorships, recognising that this is an effective way 
to broaden their knowledge and expertise. However, no
such appointment can be taken up without prior Board
approval. The Company’s policy on fees relating to such
outside directorships is set out on page 33 of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
2.5 Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship 
of Jim Forbes, met four times during the year and all
members of the Committee attended all of its meetings
held whilst they were Directors except for John Sievwright
and Audrey Baxter who were each absent from one of
these meetings. Details of the membership of the
Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37, together with 
a statement of the Group’s remuneration strategy and
policy. Full details of Directors’ remuneration appear 
on page 34.
2.6 Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Dunn and
includes David Begg, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright and
Audrey Baxter. It met three times during the year and all
members attended each of those meetings whilst they
were Directors except for Audrey Baxter who was absent
from two of these meetings and John Sievwright who was
absent from one of these meetings. The Group Director of
Internal Audit attended each of those meetings and the
Company’s external auditors also attended two of those
meetings. Executive Directors and other senior managers
attended where requested and as appropriate.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee
has sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the
Committee to discharge its functions effectively. 
Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the
effectiveness of the Company’s financial reporting and 27 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
internal control policies and procedures for the
identification, assessment and reporting of risk. It also
keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the
audits conducted by the internal audit department and 
the external auditors, the consistency of accounting
policies and reporting across the Group and it reviews 
the half-year and full-year financial statements before 
they are presented to the Board.
The Committee considers the Group’s compliance with the
Code and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity
and effectiveness of internal audit. The work of the internal
audit department is focused on areas of priority as identified
by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan
approved by the Committee and the Board. Reports are
sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units
and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to
resolve identified control weaknesses are implemented.
The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of direct
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making
recommendations to the Board in respect of the
appointment or re-appointment of the Group’s external
auditors and, subject to the approval of shareholders,
recommends to the Board the audit fee to be paid to the
external auditors. The Committee is also charged with
monitoring the independence of the external auditors 
and the objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit
process. The objectivity and independence of the external
auditors is considered on a regular basis, with particular
regard to the level of non-audit fees. The majority of 
non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception 
of due diligence work on acquisitions or potential
acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the
current auditors’ knowledge of the Company’s business
processes and controls means that they are best placed
to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Company’s
behalf. The majority of the non-audit work undertaken 
by the auditors during the year was associated with
acquisition-related due diligence. Details of the audit and
non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit
fee, are set out in note 6 to the financial statements. The
external auditors have direct access to the Committee 
to raise any matters that may concern them.
The Committee reviews with management a detailed
analysis of the Group’s financial information prior to
completion and announcement of the half-year and 
full-year results and receives a report from the external
auditors on the audit process. If necessary, the external
auditors also meet separately with the Committee and/or
the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director. 
The Annual Report and Financial Statements and interim
results go through a detailed verification and due diligence
process involving external advisers.
The Committee may request the Executive Directors and
any other officers of the Group to attend its meetings but
none has the right of attendance. Committee meetings
may be requested by the external or internal auditors if
they consider it necessary.
The business considered and discussed by the
Committee during the year included the reports of the
external auditors on the half-year and full-year results, 
the 2007/08 Group Internal Audit Plan and budget, 
papers concerning any regular and special audits and 
an executive summary of each internal audit report, risk
analysis assessments and a review of the implications 
of changes in accounting standards and the application
and implementation of International Financial Reporting
Standards.
3 Financial reporting
The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the
Group’s external financial reporting in order to present a
balanced and comprehensible assessment of the Group’s
financial position and prospects to its shareholders,
employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published information
including but not limited to the year-end and interim
financial statements, regulatory news announcements and
other public information. A statement of the Directors’
responsibility for preparing the financial statements may
be found on page 41.
4 Internal controls
The Board has established procedures to meet the
requirements of the Code and its related guidance on
internal controls. These procedures, which are subject to
regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by 
the Group.
4.1 Responsibility
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of
internal control and assessing risk. The responsibility 
for establishing detailed control and risk management
procedures within each subsidiary lies with the Executive
Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors. A sound
system of internal control is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
4.2 Control environment
The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical
and moral values and professionalism in all its activities,
principles with which all managers and employees are
required to comply. The Group has a Code of Business
Ethics, which is part of the Group’s Corporate Social 28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Corporate governance
continued
Responsibility Policy and applies to all of its subsidiary
undertakings, a copy of which is available on the
Company’s website.
The Group has a defined divisional organisational
structure with lines of authority and delegated
responsibility which allows the Board to plan, execute,
control and monitor the business in a manner consistent
with the Group’s objectives. The day-to-day business
management is delegated to the Executive Directors and
subsidiary unit managing directors under the overall
direction of the Chief Executive. As noted above, the
Board reserves to itself a number of specific items, which
ensures that it retains control over key business decisions
and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk. 
A number of the Group’s key functions, including treasury,
taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate
communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions is monitored by an Executive
Director.
4.3 Monitoring
The Group adopts a financial reporting and information
system which complies with generally accepted
accounting practice. The Group Finance Manual,
circulated by the Group Finance function to all
subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and
procedures with which subsidiaries must comply. These
are also available on the Group’s intranet. Budgets are
prepared by subsidiary company management and are
subject to review by both Group management and the
Executive Directors. Monthly forecasts are completed
during the year and compared against actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of
operating performance, with a commentary on variances
against budget, forecasts and prior year. Similar reports
are prepared at a Group level. Key performance
indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored
on a weekly basis. In addition, business units participate 
in strategic reviews which include consideration of 
long-term financial projections and the evaluation of
business alternatives.
A process of annual self-assessment and hierarchical
reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail 
of accountability from the subsidiary units to senior
management to the Executive Directors. 
A Control Assurance Questionnaire is completed by 
each operating entity on an annual basis confirming that
management have reviewed the effectiveness of the
systems of internal controls during the year. Both from this
process and as a result of planned reviews of operating
units by Internal Audit staff, invariably a number of minor
control weaknesses are identified. These weaknesses are
discussed with management and actions are agreed to
address any weaknesses identified. Follow-up visits to the
operating entity then ensure that the additional controls
have been put in place and are working effectively. No
such weaknesses have resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties that would require
disclosure in the Group’s Annual Report.
4.4 Risks and uncertainties
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties
that could have an impact on the Group’s long-term
performance. 
Competitive pressures
Our businesses compete in the areas of pricing and
service and face competition from a number of sources. 
In UK Bus, our main competitor is the car as the cost of
driving a car is generally perceived as less expensive than
bus travel, especially if there is more than one person in
the car. In order to make bus travel a viable alternative to
the car we seek to work with local authorities to introduce
bus priority measures and effect infrastructure changes
that promote bus patronage.
The main competitor to our UK Rail businesses is again
the car and to a lesser extent, long-distance coach
operators and budget airlines. T o mitigate the risk from
these pressures, the Group works with local and national
bodies to ensure that services are provided that meet or
exceed the requirements of our stakeholders.
In North America our businesses cover a wide geographic
spread competing with several large companies and a
substantial number of smaller, locally owned or
government owned operators. Our competitors in the
yellow school bus business can also include school
districts since most school districts operate their own
yellow school buses. Similarly, while the majority of our
Transit and Services business streams are operated by
private entities, including several large companies, our
Transit and Services businesses also compete with many
municipalities. In North America our businesses compete
on service, quality and price. 29 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Legislation and regulation
Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating
safety procedures, equipment specifications, employment
requirements, environmental procedures, insurance
coverage and other operating issues and considerations.
These laws and regulations are constantly subject to
change. The costs associated with complying with the
adoption of new legislation, regulations or other laws
could adversely impact the results of our operations.
T o mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes 
the Group regularly lobbies both governmental and
transport bodies.
Labour costs
Labour costs represent the largest component of the
Group’s operating costs. Labour shortages, or low
unemployment rates, could hinder the Group’s ability to
recruit and retain qualified employees leading to a higher
than expected increase in the cost of recruitment, training
and other staff costs.
T o mitigate this risk, the Group seeks to structure our
recruitment and retention strategies to attract and retain
the right people.
Fuel costs
Fuel costs constitute a significant proportion of our cost
base. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly
by international, political and economic circumstances 
as well as natural disasters. If a fuel supply shortage 
were to arise from a national strike or world supply
difficulties, a disruption to oil imports or refining capacity
due to a natural disaster or otherwise, higher fuel prices
could impact on the Group’s operating results. 
T o mitigate the risk of rising fuel costs the Group regularly
enters into forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed prices. 
In addition the Group seeks to limit the impact of
unexpected fuel price increases through efficiency 
and pricing measures.
Insurance costs
Insurance reserves are made for estimates of losses that
we will ultimately incur on accidents or incidents that have
been reported but not paid and accidents or incidents that
have been incurred but not reported. These reserves are
based on actuarial valuations that are regularly prepared
by independent actuaries. The actuarial valuations
consider a number of factors, including historical claim
payment patterns and changes in case reserves, the
assumed rate of increase in medical treatment costs and
property damage repairs and ultimate compensation.
Historical experience and recent trends are the most
significant factors in the determination of these reserves.
Given the magnitude of the claims involved and the length
of time until the ultimate cost is known the use of any
estimation technique is inherently uncertain.
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance
costs by promoting a culture of safety in everything 
that we do, through the ESC that is headed up by the
Chief Executive. 
Terrorism
T errorist acts and public concerns about potential 
attacks could adversely affect demand for our services.
The Group has a Head of Security who is responsible for
improved security awareness, implementation of good
practice and development of a passenger and employee
security structure.
Economy
The level of economic activity affects the number of bus
and train journeys taken by passengers in the UK. Any
changes in economic activity may impact on passenger
numbers and hence our UK operations. The potential
impact of this is reduced on certain rail franchises due 
to the existence of revenue share arrangements. In most
UK Bus operating companies, the Group has the ability 
to modify services by giving 45 days’ notice of such
modifications.
Risk Assessment
The Board has established an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the Group. As an integral part of planning and
review, management from each business area and major
projects identify their risks, the probability of the risks
occurring, the impact on the business should the risks
occur and the actions taken to manage the risks. The risks
are assessed on a regular basis and could be associated
with a variety of internal and external sources including
regulatory requirements, disruption to information
systems, industrial relations issues, control breakdowns
and social, ethical and environmental issues.
4.5 Whistleblowing
The Group has established procedures whereby
employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise
concerns relating to matters of potential fraud or other
improprieties. These procedures also cover other issues
affecting employees including health and safety issues.
The confidential hotline covers all businesses across 
the Group and each country in which it operates. The
Committee is confident that these ‘whistleblowing’
arrangements are satisfactory and will enable the
proportionate and independent investigation of such
matters and appropriate follow-up action to be taken. 30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year
under review and to the date of approval of the Annual
Report and Financial Statements through the monitoring
process described above. In addition, the Directors
confirm that they have conducted a specific annual review
of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function.
4.7 Treasury operations
The Board has set a policy for the management of those
risks and this is set out in more detail in note 25 to the
financial statements. A Group Treasury Policy has been
formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best
practice and to control and monitor effectively the risks
attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
4.8 Auditors
Deloitte & T ouche LLP have expressed their willingness to
continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint
them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting.
5 Relations with shareholders
The Group recognises the importance of regular
communication with all of its shareholders. The full 
Annual Report and Financial Statements are made
available to all shareholders and an Interim Report is
published and sent to shareholders at the half-year. 
These reports are intended to provide shareholders 
and other interested parties with a clear and balanced
understanding of the Group’s operational performance, 
its financial results and prospects.
All investors are kept informed of key business activities,
decisions, appointments etc. via regulatory news and
press releases and the Group’s website. There is also
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout
the year and general presentations are made by the 
Chief Executive and Finance Director following the
announcement of the full and half-year results. Other
Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, attend
meetings with major shareholders if requested. 
Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback
from investors are submitted to the Board and senior
management. The Non-Executive Directors have also had
informal contact with major shareholders regarding the
Group during the year and they expect that informal
dialogue to continue.
6 Annual General Meeting
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to
the Directors at the Company’s Annual General Meeting,
at which a report is made on the highlights of the key
business developments during the year under review. The
Chairmen of each of the Nomination, Remuneration and
Audit Committees attend the Annual General Meeting to
answer specific questions from shareholders. All Directors
who then held office were present at the 2006 Annual
General Meeting. 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to 
all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the
meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual
General Meeting on each substantially separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where
votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results 
are subsequently announced to the meeting.
Corporate governance
continued 31 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ remuneration report
This report has been prepared in accordance with the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the
‘Regulations’). It also meets the requirements of the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and
describes how the Board has applied the main supporting
principles of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in July 2003 (the ‘Code’) relating to Directors’
remuneration. The Company complies with all of the
provisions of the Code. A resolution to approve this report
will be proposed at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting to be held on 12 July 2007. 
The Regulations require the Company’s auditors to report
to the Company’s shareholders on the ‘auditable’ part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and to state whether 
in their opinion that part of the report has been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as
amended by the Regulations). This report has therefore
been divided into separate sections for audited and
unaudited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jim Forbes.
The other current members of the Committee are David
Begg, David Dunn, John Sievwright and Audrey Baxter.
The Board considers each of the members of the
Committee to be independent in accordance with the
Code. None of the members of the Committee has any
personal financial interest (other than as a shareholder) in
the matters to be decided, conflict of interest arising from
cross-directorships or any involvement in the day-to-day
running of the business. 
The remit of the Committee was adopted in March 2004 
in the light of the recent revisions to the Code and its
terms of reference are available on request and are also
published on the Company’s website. These terms 
of reference will be kept under review to take into account
any changes to the Code and corporate governance
practice. The principal purpose of the Committee is to
consider matters related to the remuneration of the
Executive Directors and senior management below 
Board level. 
The Committee met four times during the year and all
members attended each meeting held whilst they were
Directors except for John Sievwright and Audrey Baxter
who were each absent from one of these meetings. 
In determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration for
the year, the Committee considered publicly available
information, including the remuneration packages of those
holding equivalent posts at the Company’s peers within
the transport industry and other companies of comparable
market capitalisation. The Committee also consults with
the Chief Executive although no Director participates in
discussions concerning his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
Aim
The aim of the Committee is to design remuneration
packages for the Company’s Executives which attract,
retain and motivate the high calibre individuals necessary
to maintain the Group’s position as a leader in the public
transportation industry. In implementing its policy, the
Committee has given full consideration to the Principles 
of Good Governance of the Code with regard to 
Directors’ remuneration. 
Structure of remuneration packages 
There are currently four main elements to the executive
remuneration package:
• basic salary and benefits in kind;
• annual cash and deferred share bonus (both paid under
the Executive Annual Bonus Plan);
• share options; and
• pension provision. 
The Committee considers the remuneration package as a
whole, balancing each of the individual elements to ensure
that overall, the remuneration received by each Executive
Director is competitive but not excessive, contains an
appropriate balance between fixed and variable
(performance-related) remuneration and that each
Executive Director has sufficient long-term incentive 
to ensure that his interests are aligned with those of
shareholders. A high proportion of each Director’s
potential remuneration is performance-related. 
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is made up 
of the following components: 
Basic salary and benefits in kind 
The basic salary and benefits in kind for each Executive
Director are determined by the Committee for each
financial year and when an individual changes position 
or responsibility. In determining appropriate levels, the
Committee considers the Group as a whole and also the
packages received by similar individuals at the Company’s
peers in the public transport sector and other companies
of comparable market capitalisation. Details of the salaries
and benefits in kind received by each of the Executive
Directors in the year are shown on page 34. Executive Annual Bonus Plan
The Group operates a discretionary performance-related
bonus plan for its senior management under which
payment of bonuses is linked to achievement of budgeted
annual Group operating profit targets and personal
objectives (including safety targets). Where an Executive
Director is also directly responsible for one or more
operating division(s), payment of a proportion of the bonus
is also linked to the profitability of those divisions. The
Committee considers and agrees the Group and divisional
objectives for all Executive Directors and the personal
objectives for the Chief Executive. The Chief Executive, 
in consultation with the Committee, agrees the personal
objectives for the other Executive Directors. 
Each year, the Board sets challenging budget targets for
the Group as a whole and for each business unit within 
the Group. The Committee’s policy continues to be that
bonuses will be payable for Group performance against
budget of between 90% and 110% although the level of
bonus payable is heavily skewed towards performance in
excess of 100% of budget. 70% of any bonus payable is
dependent upon Group performance and the balance
upon the achievement of safety objectives (up to 20%)
and personal objectives (up to 10%). 
Bonus payments comprise a mixture of cash and deferred
share awards. Share awards for the year under review
were deferred for five years and will lapse if the relevant
individual leaves the Group during the deferral period for
any reason other than redundancy, retirement or ill-health.
The Committee considers it is appropriate for a proportion
of the annual bonus to be taken in the form of deferred
shares as this acts as a retention mechanism and also
aligns that Executives’ longer-term interests with those 
of the Company’s shareholders.
As the award of any bonus is already dependent on the
achievement of stringent targets, the Committee
considers that it is not appropriate to attach further
performance conditions on vesting of the deferred share
element of any bonus other than that the relevant
Executive remains employed by the Group and has not
tendered his resignation at the end of the deferral period.
The level of bonus payable to Executive Directors in the
year to 31 March 2007 was 110% of basic salary in the
case of the Chief Executive and 100% of basic salary in
the case of the other Executive Directors. Each of the
Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors would
receive half of their bonus in cash and the remaining half 
in the form of deferred shares. 
For all Executive Directors, up to 50% of any bonus award
will be payable in shares. The deferral period for these
shares is five years in order to provide long-term lock-in
and to further align the Directors’ interests with those of
shareholders. The same deferred period also applies to
senior management within the Group. The bonus
arrangements will be kept under review by the Committee
for future years to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Share Option Schemes
Executive Share Option Scheme
The Company operated an Executive Share Option
Scheme (‘ESOS’) up to June 2004 for Executive Directors
and other senior management. 
The performance period in respect of awards granted
under the ESOS in 2004 expired on 31 March 2007. 
The earnings per share (‘EPS’) performance target was
exceeded. Additionally, the total shareholder return (‘TSR’)
condition was fulfilled as the Company ranked first relative
to the original TSR comparator group which comprised
Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, Arriva plc, 
BAA plc, The Go-Ahead Group plc, The Mersey Docks &
Harbour Company, TBI plc, National Express Group plc,
Exel plc, Tibbett & Britten (now part of Exel plc), Avis
Europe plc, Stagecoach Group plc, British Airways plc,
Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company and
easyJet plc. 
Accordingly the awards granted under the ESOS in 2004
will vest on 10 June 2007.
32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 33 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) Scheme
The Company operated an SAYE Scheme for eligible
employees during the year under review under which
options may be granted on an annual basis at a discount
of up to 20% of market value. As with the previous
scheme the Executive Directors are eligible to participate
in the current scheme.
Buy As You Earn (‘BAYE’) Scheme
The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan under the
title ‘Buy As Y ou Earn’. The scheme, which is open to all
UK employees of the Group enables employees (including
the Executive Directors) to purchase partnership shares
from their gross income (before income tax and National
Insurance deductions). The Company provides two
matching shares for every three partnership shares,
subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to
the value of £20 a month. The shares are held in trust for
up to five years, in which case, no income tax or National
Insurance will be payable. The matching shares will be
forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are
removed from trust within three years from award.
Special Share Award
On 22 August 2006 the Company declared a special
bonus of deferred nil-cost options over 200,000 ordinary
shares in the capital of the Company in favour of Dean Finch.
These options will vest on 31 March 2011 but only to the
extent that certain performance criteria are satisfied based
on targets relating to the profitability of First Greater
Western Limited and the EPS growth of the Company over
a five-year performance period which commenced on 
1 April 2006.
Retirement benefits
Executive Directors are members of a number of defined
benefit Group pension schemes. Their dependants are
eligible for dependants’ pensions and the payment of a
lump sum in the event of death in service. Further details
are set out on page 35.
Service contracts
It is the Company’s policy to restrict notice periods for
Executive Directors to a maximum of 12 months. In line
with this policy, all of the Executive Directors have service
contracts with an undefined term but which provide for 
a notice period of 12 months. 
The contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the
discretion of the Company, to pay an amount in lieu 
of notice on early termination of the contract. Such
payments are limited to basic salary plus certain benefits
but would not include entitlement to bonus or share
options. There are no contractual provisions governing
payment of compensation on early termination of the
contracts. If it becomes necessary to consider early
termination of a service contract, the Company will have
regard to all the circumstances of the case, including
mitigation, when determining any compensation to be
paid. Details of the Executive Directors’ contracts are set
out below:
Date of service contract
Moir Lockhead 5 March 2001
Dean Finch 26 February 2004
David Leeder 3 September 2001
Sidney Barrie 31 August 2005
Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to
accept an outside non-executive directorship, unless the
appointment is in connection with Group business, the
individual Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have a letter of appointment
and their fees are determined by the Board based on
surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of
comparable companies. These letters of appointment are
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office
during normal business hours and will be made available
at the Annual General Meeting. 
Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the
Company’s share option schemes and, other than the
Group Employee Director, are not eligible to join a
Company pension scheme. Each of the Non-Executive
Directors (other than David Dunn, who, with effect from
January 2006 elected to receive all of his fees in cash and
Audrey Baxter, who receives all of her fees in the form of
shares in the Company) has elected to receive 40% of his
fees in the form of shares in the Company (in the case of
Martyn Williams, with effect from January 2006) in order 
to ensure that their interests are more closely aligned to
those of the Company’s shareholders. The shares are
purchased on a monthly basis in the market. The
appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors 
is subject to early termination without compensation 
if he/she is not re-appointed at a meeting of shareholders
where he/she is up for re-election. T otal shareholder return
The following graph shows, for the last five financial years of the Company, the total shareholder return on a holding 
of shares in the Company as against that of a hypothetical holding of shares made up of shares of the same kinds and
number as those by reference to which the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share T ransport Index are calculated.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
This graph is included to meet the relevant legislative requirements and is not directly relevant to the performance
criteria used for the Company’s Executive Share Option Scheme. Nonetheless, the indices used were selected as 
the Company believes that they are the most appropriate and representative indices against which to measure the
Company’s performance for this purpose.
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
Details of the Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2007 are set out on the following pages.
Emoluments and compensation
The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to, or receivable by, each person who served as a Director of the Company at any
time during the year for the period of such directorship are shown in the table below. These include any and all payments
for services as a Director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection with the management of the Group.
Cash Benefits
Salary bonus in kind Fees Total Total
2007 2007 2007
1
2007 2007 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Moir Lockhead 461 254 30 – 745 723
Dean Finch 308 165 20 – 493 468
David Leeder 282 141 19 – 442 411
Sidney Barrie 231 115 11 – 357 233
Non-Executive Directors
Martin Gilbert – – – 132 132 114
David Begg – – – 38 38 25
David Dunn – – – 43 43 39
Jim Forbes – – – 43 43 39
John Sievwright – – – 38 38 36
Audrey Baxter
2
––– 25 25–
Martyn Williams – – – 28 28 20
Total 1,282675803472,3842,108
1
The Directors received the following non-cash benefits in the year: Moir Lockhead: £24,000 company car, £5,000 private fuel and £1,000 medical
insurance for himself and spouse; Dean Finch: £14,000 company car, £5,000 private fuel and £1,000 medical insurance for himself and family; 
David Leeder: £13,000 company car, £5,000 private fuel and £1,000 medical insurance for himself; Sidney Barrie: £10,000 car allowance, £1,000 
medical insurance for himself and spouse.
2 
Appointed 1 August 2006.
Total shareholder return index
31 Mar
2002
31 Mar
2003
31 Mar
2004
31 Mar
2005
31 Mar
2006
31 Mar
2007
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
FirstGroup plc
Total Shareholder Return
FTSE All-Share Transport Index
Total Shareholder Return
FTSE 250 Index
Total Shareholder Return
Source: Datastream 35 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Retirement benefits
Details of the retirement benefits for each of the Directors are set out in the table below:
Moir Dean David Sidney
Lockhead Finch Leeder Barrie
Scheme 
12 2 2
Normal retirement age 65
3
60 60 60
Directors’ contributions during the year (£) 29,088 12,489 13,575 16,290
Decrease/increase in accrued pensions during the year (net of inflation) (£ pa) (3,576) 2,805 2,369 2,557
Increase in accrued pension during the year (£ pa) 6,739 3,675 3,053 2,765
Accrued pension as at 31 March 2007 (£ pa) 225,212 19,005 14,933 4,525
T ransfer value of increase in accrued pension (net of inflation) during the year (£) (67,048) 21,057 17,901 41,476
Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 March 2006 (£) 4,066,745 106,475 83,087 27,114
Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 March 2007 (£) 4,192,178 142,698 112,839 73,377
Increase in transfer value over the year, net of Director’s contributions (£ pa) 96,344 23,734 16,177 29,973
1
Aberdeen City Council No.2 Pension Fund.
2
FirstGroup Flexible Benefits Scheme.
3
Normal retirement age under relevant scheme is 65 but benefits can be taken without reduction at 60 so transfer values for the purpose of this table have
been calculated assuming immediate retirement.
Guaranteed Minimum Pensions have been ignored for the purpose of the transfer value calculations.
The Group does not have one pension scheme but instead operates a number of different schemes. All of the schemes 
in which the Executive Directors participate are defined benefit schemes and are not limited in membership to 
Executive Directors. 36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Directors’ share options
The outstanding share options under the ESOS, deferred share bonus and SAYE Scheme granted to each of the serving
Directors are set out in the table below. No price was paid for the award of any option. There have been no changes to 
the terms and conditions of any option awarded to Directors.
At beginning Lapsed/ 
of year or Granted Exercised waived
date of during during during At end
appointment the year the year the year of year Exercise Date from
(number of (number of (number of (number of (number of price which Expiry
Directors Scheme shares) shares) shares) shares) shares) (pence) exercisable date
Moir Lockhead ESOS: 2001 130,985––– 130,985 346.5 15.8.04 15.8.11
2002 173,784––– 173,784 269 21.6.05 21.6.12
2003 166,958––– 166,958 287 18.11.06 18.11.13
2004 193,277––– 193,277 275.08 10.6.07 10.6.14
Deferred 
share bonus
1
: 2003 28,559
2
– 28,559 – – nil 1.4.06 1.4.07
2004 34,062––– 34,062 nil 1.4.07 1.4.08
2005 36,787––– 36,787 nil 1.4.08 1.4.09
2006 – 61,567 – – 61,567 nil 1.4.11 1.4.12
Sidney Barrie SAYE: 2005/06 678––– 678 325 1.5.09 31.10.09
Deferred 
share bonus
1
: 2006 – 18,657 – – 18,657 nil 1.4.11 1.4.12
Dean Finch ESOS: 2001 18,470
2
– 18,470 – – 346.5 15.8.04 15.8.11
2002 24,535
2
– 24,535 – – 269 21.6.05 21.6.12
2003 58,930
3
– 58,930 – – 287 18.11.06 18.11.13
2004 90,883––– 90,883 275.08 10.6.07 10.6.14
Deferred
share bonus
1
: 2003 13,720
4
– 13,720 – – nil 1.4.06 1.4.07
2004 27,029––– 27,029 nil 1.4.07 1.4.08
2005 38,344––– 38,344 nil 1.4.08 1.4.09
2006 – 37,313 – – 37,313 nil 1.4.11 1.4.12
Special 
share award: 2006 – 200,000 – – 200,000 nil 31.3.11 30.3.12
David Leeder ESOS: 2002 26,914––– 26,914 269 21.6.05 21.6.12
2003 64,643––– 64,643 287 18.11.06 18.11.13
2004 90,883––– 90,883 275.08 10.6.07 10.6.14
Deferred 
share bonus
1
: 2003 7,163
4
– 7,163 – – nil 1.4.06 1.4.07
2004 19,941––– 19,941 nil 1.4.07 1.4.08
2005 29,311––– 29,311 nil 1.4.08 1.4.09
2006 – 31,872 – – 31,872 nil 1.4.11 1.4.12
SAYE: 2005/06 678––– 678 325 1.5.09 31.10.09
Martyn Williams SAYE: 2003/04 636––– 636 232 1.2.07 31.8.07
2004/05 567––– 567 267 1.2.08 31.8.08
2005/06 345––– 345 325 1.5.09 31.10.09
2006/07 – 340 – – 340 444 1.2.10 31.8.10
1
The figures shown represent the number of nil-cost options which were granted under the deferred share element of the Executive Annual Bonus 
Plan in respect of the 2002/03, 2003/04, 2004/05 and 2005/06 financial years. The cash values of the 2006/07 award are Moir Lockhead: £254,000, 
Sidney Barrie: £115,000, Dean Finch: £165,000 and David Leeder: £141,000. These awards will take the form of nil-cost options over shares which 
will, subject to satisfaction of the requirements of the plan, vest on 1 April 2012. The number of shares under option will depend on the market price 
of shares at the close of business on 16 May 2007. 
2
Exercised on 9 August 2006. The closing price on the date of exercise was 449.25p.
3
Exercised on 20 November 2006. The closing price on the date of exercise was 554.5p.
4
Exercised on 7 June 2006. The closing price on the date of exercise was 401.50p. 37 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Market price of FirstGroup plc shares
The market price of FirstGroup plc shares at 31 March
2007 was 665p and the range during the year was 381p 
to 668p. 
This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on
the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, 
on 10 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by
James Forbes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
15 May 2007 The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual
Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 March 2007.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of
passenger transport services.
Review of the business
Reviews of the business and principal events and likely
future developments are given in the Chairman’s
statement, Chief Executive’s review and in the Finance
Director’s review set out on pages 2 to 21. Our review of
the principal risks and uncertainties of the business is set
out on pages 28 to 29.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated
income statement on page 42. The Directors recommend
payment of a final dividend of £45.6m (10.5p per share),
which, with the interim dividend of £19.6m (5.0p per 
share) paid on 7 February 2007, gives a total dividend of
£65.2m (15.5p per share) for the year. The proposed final
dividend, if approved, will be paid on 24 August 2007 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
20 July 2007.
Share capital
Details of changes in share capital, including purchases by
the Company of its own shares, are set out in note 28 to
the consolidated financial statements. Authority for the
Company to make market purchases of up to 39,875,000
of its own shares was renewed at the 2006 Annual General
Meeting. This authority remains in place until the 2007
Annual General Meeting, when it is intended to seek a
further renewal. Further to the authority given at the 2006
Annual General Meeting, the Company did not purchase
any of its own shares. 
Directors
The Directors of the Company who served during the 
year were Martin Gilbert, Moir Lockhead, Sidney Barrie,
Audrey Baxter (appointed 1 August 2006), David Begg,
David Dunn, Dean Finch, Jim Forbes, David Leeder, 
John Sievwright and Martyn Williams. Biographical details
of all the serving Directors are set out on pages 22 to 23.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,
Moir Lockhead, John Sievwright, Dean Finch and 
David Leeder will retire by rotation at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election. Audrey Baxter, who was 
appointed since the last Annual General Meeting will retire
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being
eligible, offer herself for election. Details of the fees and
remuneration of the Directors and their service contracts
or terms of appointment are set out in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
Directors’ interests
The Directors who held office at the end of the year had
the following interests in the ordinary shares of the
Company:
Ordinary 5p shares
At beginning of year or
subsequent appointment At end of year
Non- Non-
Beneficial beneficial Beneficial beneficial
Sidney Barrie 20,000 – 20,000 –
Audrey Baxter – – 3,619 –
David Begg 2,645 – 5,603 –
David Dunn 24,837 – 24,837 –
Dean Finch 8,334 – 16,411 –
Jim Forbes 18,113 – 21,467 –
Martin Gilbert 74,959 – 85,328 –
David Leeder 10,636 – 15,260 –
Moir Lockhead 1 , 157,604 470,690 1 , 174,412 470,690
John Sievwright 25,332 – 28,288 –
Martyn Williams 2,138 – 3,422 –
Details of the Directors’ share options are set out in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37. 
Moir Lockhead also holds nominal non-beneficial 
interests in a number of the Company’s subsidiary
undertakings.
Between 1 April 2007 and 15 May 2007, the following
changes occurred to Directors’ interests: 
On 24 April 2007, David Leeder acquired 22 shares
pursuant to the Company’s Buy As Y ou Earn Scheme. 
On 25 April 2007, Martin Gilbert acquired 719 shares, 
Jim Forbes acquired 216 shares, each of David Begg and
John Sievwright acquired 190 shares, Martyn Williams
acquired 83 shares and Audrey Baxter acquired 388
shares under the standing arrangements whereby they
have elected to receive 40% (except for Audrey Baxter
who has elected to receive 100%) of their monthly fees 
in the form of shares in the Company.
No Director is materially interested in any significant
contract or agreement with the Group, other than their
service contracts.
38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ report 39 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Significant interests
At 15 May 2007, the Company had been advised of the
following holders of 3% or more of its issued share capital
for the purpose of section 198 of the Companies Act 1985:
Institution Ordinary 5p shares %
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 35,070,076 8.06
JP Morgan Chase & Co 20,273,058 4.66
Lloyds TSB Group plc 18,452,730 4.24
Aviva plc 15,831,999 3.64
Legal & General plc 14,763,688 3.39
Employees
The Group is committed to employee involvement and
uses a variety of methods to inform, consult and involve 
its employees in the business. These include subsidiary
company newsletters and circulars and also First Edition,
a Group-wide newsletter, which is sent to all employees
across the Group on a biannual basis. Senior managers
within each division meet regularly to discuss current
issues and employees are encouraged to discuss any
issues with management at any time. Each division also
operates a confidential hotline which staff can use to
report health and safety, employment-related and other
issues concerning them.
The Group also has a regular dialogue with employees
and representatives from Trades Unions. Each operating
company has either an elected Company Council or, more
typically, an Employee Director on its board. This principle
extends to the plc Board where one of the Employee
Directors is elected by his or her peers to represent
employees across the Group.
Each division has its own information and consultation
arrangements and levels of employee involvement in the
business differ. However, in the UK, the Group has worked
with Trades Unions to set up a number of joint schemes,
including workplace learning, credit unions, new national
policies on assaults, drugs and alcohol, the restructuring
of Group pension schemes and a joint committee to
review staff uniform procedures.
The Group is committed to wide employee share
ownership. During the year, employees continued to 
have the opportunity to participate in the Group’s Save 
As Y ou Earn and Buy As Y ou Earn schemes, details of
which are set out in note 35 to the financial statements.
The Group is committed to equality of opportunity in all its
employment practices, policies and procedures. T o this
end, within the framework of the law, we are committed
wherever practicable to achieving and maintaining a
workforce which broadly reflects the local catchment 
area within which we operate. We aim to ensure that 
no employee or potential employee will receive less
favourable treatment due to their race, colour, nationality,
ethnic origin, religion, sex, gender reassignment, 
sexual orientation, religion, marital status, trade union
membership, age or disability.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The system of internal control described on pages 
27 to 30 covers significant risks associated with social,
environmental and health and safety issues. The Group
publishes a separate Corporate Social Responsibility
Report covering these matters, which will be available 
on our website at www.firstgroup.com.
Charitable and political contributions
The Group made various donations to UK charities totalling
approximately £100,000 during the year (2006: £170,000).
No payments were made for political purposes.
Creditors
It is the Group’s policy to abide by the payment terms
agreed with suppliers wherever it is satisfied that the
supplier has provided goods and services in accordance
with agreed terms and conditions. A number of significant
purchases including fuel, tyres and commitments under
hire purchase contracts, finance leases and operating
leases are paid by direct debit. At 31 March 2007, the
Group had the equivalent of 31 days’ (2006: 28 days’)
purchases outstanding, based on the ratio of Group trade
creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced
during the year by trade creditors. The Company does 
not have any trade creditors in its balance sheet.
Audit information 
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the
Company at the date when this report was approved:
• so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no
relevant audit information (as defined in the Companies
Act 1985) of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and
• each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself
aware of any relevant audit information (as defined) and
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of
that information. 40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ report
continued
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Aberdeen
Exhibition and Conference Centre, Bridge of Don,
Aberdeen, Scotland AB23 8BL on Thursday 12 July 2007
at 11.00 am. The Notice of Meeting is contained in a
separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this
Annual Report.
Going concern
Whilst any consideration of future matters involves making
a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future
events which are inherently uncertain, after making
enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement, at 
the time of approving these financial statements, that
there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and
the Group have adequate resources to continue operating 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these
financial statements.
By order of the Board
Sidney Barrie 395 King Street
Company Secretary Aberdeen
15 May 2007 AB24 5RP 41 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report and the accounts. The Directors are required to
prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and
have chosen to prepare Company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’).
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are
required to prepare financial statements for each financial
year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company
for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have
been followed; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting
Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly
for each financial year the Company’s financial position,
financial performance and cash flows. This requires the
faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other
events and conditions in accordance with the definitions
and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses set out in the International Accounting
Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and
presentation of financial statements’. In virtually all
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable IFRSs. Directors are also
required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in 
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with
the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on the
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
• prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless,
having assessed the ability of the Company to continue
as a going concern, management either intends to
liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no
realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of 
a Directors’ report and Directors’ Remuneration Report
which comply with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements differs from
legislation in other jurisdictions. 42 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Consolidated income statement
Y ear ended 31 March 2007
Before
amortisation Amortisation
charges, charges, Before
non-recurring non-recurring amortisation Amortisation
bid costs bid costs charges and charges and
and other non- and other non- non-recurring non-recurring
recurring items recurring items T otal bid costs bid costs T otal
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Continuing operations 3 3,708.8 – 3,708.8 3,030.9 – 3,030.9
Operating costs before (loss)/profit on
disposal of fixed assets
Continuing operations (3,449.6) (51.9) (3,501.5) (2,801.2) (33.0) (2,834.2)
Operating profit before (loss)/profit on
disposal of fixed assets
Continuing operations 259.2 (51.9) 207.3 229.7 (33.0) 196.7
Operating profit before amortisation charges, non- 
recurring bid costs and other non-recurring items 259.2 – 259.2 229.7 – 229.7
Amortisation charges 14 – (10.3) (10.3) – (4.5) (4.5)
Non-recurring bid costs 5 – (19.3) (19.3) – (28.5) (28.5)
Other non-recurring items 5 – (22.3) (22.3) –– –
Operating profit before (loss)/profit on disposal 
of fixed assets 259.2 (51.9) 207.3 229.7 (33.0) 196.7
(Loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets – (3.7) (3.7) – 14.0 14.0
Operating profit 6 259.2 (55.6) 203.6 229.7 (19.0) 210.7
Investment income 3, 8 9.4 – 9.4 8.5 – 8.5
Finance costs 9 (72.8) – (72.8) (61.8) – (61.8)
Profit before tax 195.8 (55.6) 140.2 176.4 (19.0) 157.4
Tax 10 (51.1) 13.0 (38.1) (45.3) 5.3 (40.0)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 144.7 (42.6) 102.1 131.1 (13.7) 117.4
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 134.1 (42.4) 91.7 121.5 (14.0) 107.5
Minority interests 10.6 (0.2) 10.4 9.6 0.3 9.9
144.7 (42.6) 102.1 131.1 (13.7) 117.4
Basic earnings per share 11 23.1p 27.4p
Diluted earnings per share 11 22.8p 27.1p
Dividends of £57.1m (2006: £52.0m) were paid during the year. Dividends of £45.6m (2006: £37.4m) were proposed for
approval in respect of the year. 43 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
Y ear ended 31 March 2007
2007 2006
£m £m
Derivative hedging instrument movements 22.8 (43.2)
Deferred tax on derivative hedging instrument movements 2.0 8.1
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (85.5) 49.6
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 116.9 36.7
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes (35.0) (11.0)
Net income recognised directly in equity 21.2 40.2
Profit for the period 102.1 117.4
T otal recognised income and expense for the period 123.3 157.6
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 112.9 147.7
Minority interests 10.4 9.9
123.3 157.6 44 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 468.8 503.1
Other intangible assets 14 60.8 30.0
Property, plant and equipment 15 1,059.7 926.5
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 25 27.7 8.5
1,617.0 1,468.1
Current assets
Inventories 17 64.6 54.2
Trade and other receivables 18 377.3 373.1
Financial assets – cash and cash equivalents 21 411.2 174.4
– derivative financial instruments 25 8.3 14.1
861.4 615.8
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 19 7.5 6.6
Retirement benefit surplus 36 57.1 –
T otal assets 2,543.0 2,090.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 695.1 545.1
T ax liabilities 49.7 47.8
Financial liabilities – bank overdrafts and loans 22 1.8 30.9
– bonds 22 23.1 23.1
– loan notes 24 5.2 2.8
– obligations under finance leases 23 11.5 2.3
– derivative financial instruments 25 5.0 1.8
791.4 653.8
Net current assets/(liabilities) 70.0 (38.0)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – bank loans 22 310.5 268.8
– bonds 22 539.3 553.2
– loan notes 24 10.6 17.7
– obligations under finance leases 23 70.4 10.1
– derivative financial instruments 25 4.3 0.8
Retirement benefit obligation 36 33.3 132.0
Deferred tax liabilities 26 142.7 84.6
Long-term provisions 27 33.2 37.6
1,144.3 1,104.8
T otal liabilities 1,935.7 1,758.6
Net assets 607.3 331.9
Equity
Share capital 28 21.9 19.9
Share premium account 29 447.8 238.8
Hedging reserves 29 26.7 1.9
Other reserves 29 4.6 4.6
Own shares 29 (17.4) (26.6)
Translation reserves 30 (57.8) 27.7
Retained earnings 29 170.4 52.9
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 596.2 319.2
Minority interests 11.1 12.7
T otal equity 607.3 331.9
Moir Lockhead Dean Finch 45 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Consolidated cash flow statement
Y ear ended 31 March 2007
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Net cash from operating activities 32 295.5 235.0
Investing activities
Interest received 9.4 5.9
Proceeds of disposal of property, plant and equipment 18.3 27.3
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (251.2) (196.2)
Grants received 29.1 –
Acquisition of businesses (17.9) (12.4)
Net cash used in investing activities (212.3) (175.4)
Financing activities
Repurchase of ordinary share capital – (23.0)
Shares purchased by Employee Benefit Trust – (1.4)
Monies received on exercise of options 2.8 8.4
Dividends paid (57.1) (52.0)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (11.3) (7.2)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (14.4) (11.8)
Repayment of loan notes (4.8) (0.5)
Payment of new bank facility issue costs – (1.0)
Proceeds on issue of shares 216.9 –
New bank loans raised 22.4 55.7
Net cash from financing activities 154.5 (32.8)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents before foreign exchange movements 237.7 26.8
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 169.9 145.9
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.7 (2.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 410.3 169.9
2007 2006
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow statement purposes comprises: £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 411.2 174.4
Overdrafts (0.9) (4.5)
410.3 169.9
Note to the consolidated cash flow statement –
reconciliation of net cash flows to movement in net debt
Y ear ended 31 March 2007
2007 2006
£m £m
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in year before foreign exchange movements 237.7 26.8
Increase in debt and finance lease financing (3.2) (43.4)
Inception of new finance leases (84.0) –
Lease and hire purchase contracts acquired with business/franchise – (0.7)
Fees on issue of new loan facility – 1.0
Other non-cash movements in relation to financial instruments (0.8) (1.9)
Foreign exchange differences 38.5 (23.1)
Movement in net debt in year 188.2 (41.3)
Net debt at beginning of year (704.4) (663.1)
Net debt at end of year (516.2) (704.4) 46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 General information
FirstGroup plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered
office is 395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP . The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the
Chief Executive’s review on pages 3 to 16.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment
in which the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 2.
The parent Company financial statements and notes thereto are shown separately under UK GAAP on pages 83 to 90.
2 Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted
for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial
instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 March each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity interest
therein. Minority interests consist of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share of
the changes in equity since the date of the combination. Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in
the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding
obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into
line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3
Business combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal
groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued
operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the
business combination over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the
income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value 
of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.  47 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather
than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available
for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify 
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment
losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units. Cash-generating
units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently where there is an indication
that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit,
the impairment loss is allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount
of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue principally comprises revenue from train passenger and freight services, road passenger transport, and certain
management and maintenance services in the UK and North America. Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates
and sales taxes.
Revenue in UK Rail includes franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport (DfT) and Transport Scotland.
Payments to the DfT for amounts due under the terms of a franchise are included in operating costs. Revenue also includes
amounts attributable to the train operating companies (‘TOCs’), predominantly based on models of route usage, by the 
Railway Settlement Plan in respect of passenger receipts. Where season tickets are issued in excess of one week’s duration,
the attributable share of income is deferred within creditors and is recognised in the income statement over the period covered 
by the season ticket.
UK Bus revenue principally comprises amounts receivable from ticket sales and concessionary fare schemes. Concessionary
amounts are recognised in the period in which the service is provided based on a predetermined formula as agreed with the
relevant local authority. Other Bus, including North America, and services revenue from contracts with government bodies and
similar organisations are recognised as the services are provided.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases and the rental charges are charged against income
on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
2 Significant accounting policies continued 48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Assets held under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if
lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding
liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance
charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the
liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in 
which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs (see below).
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
Foreign currencies 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment
in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial
position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the company, and the
presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are
recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates
prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost 
in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in
profit or loss for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are
included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of
which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity. For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain
or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group holds currency swaps and net foreign borrowings 
in foreign currencies (see below for details of the Group’s policies in respect of derivative financial instruments and foreign
exchange risks). 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless
exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising from the average or spot exchange rates used and the period end rate, if any, are classified as
equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses
in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs and other non-recurring items
but before investment income and borrowing costs.
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items are material items of income or expenditure which due to their size, nature and infrequency, require
separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance 
in the year, in comparison to prior years.
2 Significant accounting policies continued 49 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Retirement benefit costs
The Group operates or participates in a number of pension schemes, which include both defined benefit schemes and defined
contribution schemes.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. There is no legal or
constructive obligation to pay contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all
employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period
in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income
and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from
this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions
to the scheme. 
Various train operating companies in the UK Rail business participate in the Railways Pension Scheme, which is an industry-
wide defined benefit scheme. The Group is obligated to fund the relevant section of the scheme over the period for which the
franchise is held. The full liability is recognised on the balance sheet, which is then reduced by a franchise adjustment so that
the net liability reflects the Group’s obligations to fund the scheme over the franchise term.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. T axable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary
difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates,
and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
2 Significant accounting policies continued 50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Property, plant and equipment
Properties for provision of services or administrative purposes are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost
includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting
policy. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for
their intended use.
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than freehold land, the land element of long leasehold
properties or on assets in the course of construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on 
the following bases:
Freehold buildings 50 years straight line
Long leasehold buildings 50 years straight line
Short leasehold properties period of lease
Passenger carrying vehicles 7 to 15 years straight line
Other plant and equipment 3 to 25 years straight line
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where
shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Government grants
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income
statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate
cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there
is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an
expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated 
as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately except in the case of goodwill, unless the relevant asset
is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price
less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.
2 Significant accounting policies continued 51 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial assets
The Group measures financial assets on initial recognition at fair value, and determines the classification of such assets 
at initial recognition and on any subsequent reclassification event.
Where there is no active market for a financial asset, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent
commercial transactions and discounted cash flows. Otherwise financial assets are carried at amortised cost.
Financial assets are classified into one of four primary categories:
Fair value through the income statement
This covers any financial asset designated on initial recognition to be measured at fair value with fair value changes to go
through the income statement, and financial assets acquired principally for the purpose of trading in the short term.
Held to maturity investments
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified here when the Group 
has the intention and ability to hold to maturity. These financial assets are held at amortised cost using the effective interest
method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired as 
well as through amortisation.
Loans and receivables 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market have not been
designated as either fair value through the income statement or Available For Sale. Such assets are carried at amortised cost.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired as well
as through amortisation. 
The most significant financial assets under this category are trade receivables and bank deposits.
Trade receivables are measured at fair value, i.e. original invoice amount, less an allowance for uncollectable amounts.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is objective
evidence that the asset is impaired. 
Bank deposits are included within cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow
statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits
with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated balance sheet cash
includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash
and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities. All are carried on the balance sheet at cost. Cash and
cash equivalents includes ring-fenced cash. Under the terms of the Rail franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed 
by the train operating companies up to the lower of the amount of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed
liquidity ratios. The ring-fenced cash represents that which is not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy 
the contractual liquidity ratio at the balance sheet date.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified 
in any of the other categories. After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being
recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be
impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered
into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of 
its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
2 Significant accounting policies continued 52 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Financial liabilities
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Sterling bonds and loan notes
These are measured either on an amortised cost basis or at fair value, if adopted.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective
interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks, foreign currency risks and fuel price risks. Use of
such financial instruments is governed by policies and delegated authorities approved by the Board. The Group does not use
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
The main derivative financial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps and collars, fuel swaps and collars, 
and cross currency interest rate swaps and currency forwards. Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value and
subsequently re-measured to fair value at the reported balance sheet date. The fair values are calculated by reference to
market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end, and supported by counterparty confirmations. 
The interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges for interest rate risk on certain floating rate debt, and fair 
value hedges for fair value risk relating to the LIBOR element of a fixed rate financial liability. The fuel swaps and collars are
designated as cash flow hedges of fuel price risks or otherwise used as economic hedges of such risks. The cross currency
swaps are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk relating to part of the Group’s net investment in US Dollar assets.
The currency forwards are designated as a cash flow hedge of foreign exchange risk relating to US Dollar denominated fuel
purchases in the UK. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges 
or foreign currency hedges of a foreign net investment are recognised in the income statement as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is
retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks
and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with
unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group
will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to
settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Insurance
The Group’s policy is to self-insure high frequency, low value claims within the businesses. T o provide protection above these
types of losses, cover is obtained through third-party insurance policies. Provision is made under IAS 37 for the estimated cost
of settling uninsured claims for incidents occurring prior to balance sheet date.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based
payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will
eventually vest and is adjusted for the effects of non-market-based vesting conditions.
2 Significant accounting policies continued 53 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
New standards and interpretations not applied
The International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
have issued the following standards and interpretations with effective dates starting after 1 April 2006:
International Accounting Standard (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS)
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (revised March 2007) 1 January 2009
IFRIC
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008
Under IFRS 7 the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the
nature and extent of risks that they give rise to. More specifically, the Group will need to disclose the fair values of its financial
instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail. The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of the above
standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s Accounts in the period of initial application.  
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies which are described above, management has made the following
judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Impairment of intangible assets (including goodwill)
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the
goodwill has been allocated. The value in use requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the
cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. The carrying amount of goodwill at the
balance sheet date was £468.8m (2006: £503.1m) as set out in note 13 and the carrying amount of other intangible assets at
balance sheet date was £60.8m (2006: £30.0m) as set out in note 14.
Defined benefit pension arrangements
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of a suitable discount rate, the expected return on
scheme assets, expected rate of future salary and pension increases along with assumptions about mortality rates. The most
significant of these assumptions is the discount rate. A 0.1% movement in the discount rate applied would impact operating
profit and the balance sheet deficit by approximately £1.0m and £23.0m respectively. The net pension surplus as at the balance
sheet date was £23.8m (2006: net deficit of £132.0m) as set out in note 36. 
Self-insurance
Provision is made for all known incidents for which there is self-insurance using management’s best estimate of the likely
settlement of these incidents. The estimated settlement is reviewed on a regular basis with independent actuarial advice and
the amount provided is adjusted as required. The Group’s total insurance reserves as at the balance sheet date was £70.9m
(2006: £80.7m) as set out in note 27.
2 Significant accounting policies continued 54 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
2007 2006
3 Revenue £m £m
Services rendered 3,708.8 3,030.9
Investment income (note 8) 9.4 8.5
T otal revenue (as defined in IAS 18) 3,718.2 3,039.4
Revenue by business segment is set out in note 4 below.
4 Business and geographical segments
Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three operating divisions – UK Bus, UK Rail and North
America. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. The principal activities 
of these divisions are set out in the Chief Executive’s review.
Segment information about these businesses is set out below.
The segment results for the year to 31 March 2007 are as follows:
North Group 
UK Bus UK Rail America items T otal
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1,073.7 1,824.1 802.9 8.1 3,708.8
Segment results
1
103.0 108.8 68.2 (20.8) 259.2
Amortisation of intangible assets – (8.2) (2.1) – (10.3)
Non-recurring bid costs (note 5) – (14.5) – (4.8) (19.3)
Other non-recurring items (note 5) – (21.3) (1.0) – (22.3)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets (3.7) – – – (3.7)
Operating profit 99.3 64.8 65.1 (25.6) 203.6
Investment income 9.4
Finance costs (72.8)
Profit before tax 140.2
Tax (38.1)
Profit for the year 102.1
North Group 
UK Bus UK Rail America items T otal
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
Other information £m £m £m £m £m
Capital additions 161.7 145.3 69.3 1.8 378.1
Depreciation and amortisation 70.7 21.8 53.0 4.5 150.0
North Group 
UK Bus UK Rail America items T otal
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
T otal assets 856.2 496.1 1,084.2 106.5 2,543.0
T otal liabilities 627.5 422.0 586.0 300.2 1,935.7
1
Before amortisation of intangible assets, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets. 55 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The segment results for the year to 31 March 2006 are as follows:
North Group
UK Bus UK Rail America items T otal
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1,031.2 1,164.9 826.3 8.5 3,030.9
Segment results
1
98.4 79.6 67.1 (15.4) 229.7
Amortisation of intangible assets – (2.9) (1.6) – (4.5)
Non-recurring bid costs (note 5) – (26.1) – (2.4) (28.5)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets 14.0––– 14.0
Operating profit 112.4 50.6 65.5 (17.8) 210.7
Investment income 8.5
Finance costs (61.8)
Profit before tax 157.4
Tax (40.0)
Profit for the year 117.4
1
Before amortisation of intangible assets, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets.
North Group 
UK Bus UK Rail America Items T otal
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
Other information £m £m £m £m £m
Capital additions 118.7 16.9 82.2 9.9 227.7
Depreciation and amortisation 58.9 8.2 56.5 2.9 126.5
North Group 
UK Bus UK Rail America items T otal
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
T otal assets 740.1 332.8 946.6 71.0 2,090.5
T otal liabilities 567.4 277.0 423.2 491.0 1,758.6
Geographical segments
The Group’s operations are located in the United Kingdom and North America. The following table provides an analysis of the
Group’s revenue by geographical market:
2007 2006
£m £m
United Kingdom 2,905.9 2,204.6
North America 802.9 826.3
3,708.8 3,030.9
4 Business and geographical segments continued 56 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located:
Additions to property,
Carrying amount of plant and equipment
segment assets and intangible assets
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,458.8 1,143.9 308.8 145.5
North America 1,084.2 946.6 69.3 82.2
2,543.0 2,090.5 378.1 227.7
Other non-cash items, included within Group items, include the following charges:
2007 2006
£m £m
Share-based payments 3.2 3.2
Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 1.9 1.4
5.1 4.6
5 Non-recurring bid costs and other non-recurring items
Non-recurring bid costs of £19.3m (2006: £28.5m) were incurred during the year and included £14.5m bidding for the South
West Trains, Cross Country and InterCity East Coast franchises. Costs of £4.8m (2006: £2.4m) were incurred on non-rail bids.
UK Rail transition costs of £21.3m (2006: £nil) were incurred on the mobilisation of the First Capital Connect and First Great
Western franchises and subsequent train refurbishment obligations relating to both franchises. In addition £1.0m or 
$2.2m (2006: £nil) was charged in North America to provide for onerous contracts.
The tax benefit as a result of this expenditure was a credit of £12.5m (2006: credit of £8.6m).
6 Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging:
2007 2006
£m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 139.7 122.0
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14) 10.3 4.5
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 370.0 358.2
Staff costs (note 7) 1,486.4 1,376.1
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see page 57) 0.8 0.7
4 Business and geographical segments continued 57 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Amounts payable to Deloitte & T ouche LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of
audit and non-audit services are shown below:
2007 2006
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6
T otal audit fees 0.8 0.7
– International Financial Reporting convergence assistance – 0.1
– T ax services 0.1 –
– Due diligence 0.5 0.1
T otal non-audit fees 0.6 0.2
In addition to the above, there are other fees deferred in the balance sheet in respect of acquisition advice from Deloitte &
T ouche LLP of £2.6m (2006: £nil).
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 26 to 27 and
includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided 
by the auditors.
7 Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
2007 2006
No. No.
Operational 69,874 66,535
Administrative 4,359 4,212
74,233 70,747
Their aggregate remuneration (including Executive Directors) comprised:
2007 2006
£m £m
Wages and salaries 1,359.2 1,264.6
Social security costs 101.6 92.8
Other pension costs (note 36) 25.6 18.7
1,486.4 1,376.1
Disclosures on Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes and pension entitlements required by the
Companies Act 1985 and those specified for audit by the Financial Services Authority are contained in the tables/notes within
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37 and form part of these audited financial statements.
2007 2006
8 Investment income £m £m
Interest income 9.4 8.5
6 Operating profit continued 58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
2007 2006
9 Finance costs £m £m
Bond and bank borrowings 59.8 53.1
Loan notes 1.4 1.8
Finance charges payable in respect of finance leases 4.7 0.8
T otal borrowing costs 65.9 55.7
Notional interest on long-term provisions 6.9 6.1
72.8 61.8
There was no interest capitalised into qualifying assets in either the year ended 31 March 2006 or 31 March 2007.
2007 2006
10 T ax on profit on ordinary activities £m £m
Current tax 5.5 (3.3)
Deferred tax (note 26) 32.6 43.3
38.1 40.0
Corporation tax is calculated at 30% (2006: 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
T axation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2007 2007 2006 2006
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 140.2 100.0 157.4 100.0
T ax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 42.1 30.0 47.2 30.0
T ax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 1.1 0.8 0.9 0.6
Income not subject to tax (3.2) (2.3) (0.5) (0.3)
Effect of tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 3.0 2.2 4.6 2.9
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years (4.9) (3.5) (12.2) (7.8)
T ax expense and effective tax rate for the year 38.1 27.2 40.0 25.4
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, tax relating to share-based payments, actuarial gains and cash flow
and net investment hedges, amounting to £28.9m (2006: £0.8m) has been charged directly to equity.
11 Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of £91.7m (2006: £107.5m) by the weighted
average number of ordinary shares of 397.9m (2006: 392.6m).
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of £91.7m (2006: £107.5m) by the weighted
average number of ordinary shares of 402.0m (2006: 396.5m). The difference in the number of shares between the basic
calculation and the diluted calculation represents the weighted average number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares. 
A reconciliation of the number of shares used in the basic and diluted measures is set out below:
2007 2006
No. No.
m m
Weighted average number of shares used in basic calculation 397.9 392.6
SAYE share options 2.5 3.0
Executive share options 1.6 0.9
402.0 396.5 59 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The adjusted basic EPS and adjusted cash EPS are intended to demonstrate recurring elements of the results of the Group
before amortisation of intangible assets, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and loss/profit on disposal of fixed
assets. A reconciliation of the earnings used in the bases is set out below:
2007 2006
Earnings per Earnings per 
£m share (p) £m share (p)
Profit for basic EPS calculation 91.7 23.1 107.5 27.4
Amortisation of intangible assets
1
10.1 2.5 4.3 1.1
Non-recurring bid costs 19.3 4.9 28.5 7.2
Other non-recurring items 22.3 5.6 ––
Loss/(profit) on disposal of fixed assets
2
3.7 0.9 (13.5) (3.4)
T axation effect of adjustments (13.0) (3.3) (5.3) (1.4)
Profit for adjusted basic EPS calculation 134.1 33.7 121.5 30.9
Depreciation
3
138.8 34.9 121.6 31.0
Profit for adjusted cash EPS calculation
4
272.9 68.6 243.1 61.9
1
Amortisation charge of £10.3m per note 14 less £0.2m (2006: £4.5m less £0.2m) attributable to equity minority interests.
2
Loss on disposal of fixed assets of £3.7m less £nil (2006: profit of £14.0m less £0.5m) attributable to equity minority interests.
3
Depreciation charge of £139.7m (2006: £122.0m) per note 15 less £0.9m (2006: £0.4m) attributable to equity minority interests.
4
Excludes working capital movements.
2007 2006
12 Dividends £m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 9.55p (2005: 8.69p) per share 37.5 34.1
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 5.0p (2006: 4.55p) per share 19.6 17.9
57.1 52.0
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 10.5p (2006: 9.55p) per share 45.6 37.5
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as
a liability in these financial statements.
2007 2006
13 Goodwill £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 503.1 465.8
Additions 9.1 10.3
Exchange rate differences (43.4) 27.0
At 31 March 468.8 503.1
Accumulated impairment losses
At 31 March – –
Carrying amount
At 31 March 468.8 503.1
11 Earnings per share (EPS) continued 60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Details of acquisitions in the year are shown in note 31. During the year, goodwill was reviewed for impairment in accordance
with IAS 36. For the purposes of this impairment review goodwill has been valued on the basis of discounted future cash flows
arising in each relevant cash-generating unit. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent five year
plan for the next four years and extrapolates cash flows for the following six years based on estimated growth rates of 2.5% 
for the United Kingdom and 3.0% for North America. A discount rate of 10.0% was used in arriving at the value in use for each
of the cash-generating units. The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the principal
assumptions of discount rate, growth rates and margins achievable. The Directors consider the assumptions to be reasonable
based on historic performance of each cash-generating unit and are realistic in light of economic and industry forecasts.
The goodwill is split as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Carrying amount
UK Bus 87.4 87.4
UK Rail 19.8 19.8
First Student 255.3 281.0
First Transit 54.7 57.3
First Services 51.6 57.6
468.8 503.1
The reduction in the carrying value of goodwill is mainly as a result of foreign exchange movements, as the balance sheet rate
was $1.96/£1 at 31 March 2007 compared with $1.74/£1 at 31 March 2006, net of additions made during the year.
Contracts Franchise
acquired agreements Total
14 Other intangible assets £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 15.7 21.0 36.7
Additions 7.1 35.3 42.4
Exchange rate differences (1.6) – (1.6)
At 31 March 2007 21.2 56.3 77.5
Amortisation
At 1 April 2006 2.2 4.5 6.7
Charge for year 2.1 8.2 10.3
Exchange rate differences (0.3) – (0.3)
At 31 March 2007 4.0 12.7 16.7
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2007 17.2 43.6 60.8
13 Goodwill continued 61 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Contracts Franchise
acquired agreements Total
14 Other intangible assets continued £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 10.6 21.0 31.6
Additions 4.3 – 4.3
Exchange rate differences 0.8 – 0.8
At 31 March 2006 15.7 21.0 36.7
Amortisation
At 1 April 2005 0.6 1.6 2.2
Charge for year 1.6 2.9 4.5
Exchange rate differences –––
At 31 March 2006 2.2 4.5 6.7
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2006 13.5 16.5 30.0
Contracts acquired through the purchases of businesses and subsidiary undertakings are amortised on a straight-line basis
over their useful lives which is, on average, nine years.
The rail franchise agreement intangible asset represents the part of the economic benefit derived from the rail franchise
agreement that is realised as a result of recognising our share of the rail pension deficit and is amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the franchise. The largest elements of the franchise intangible relates to the ScotRail franchise 
(carrying amount £11.0m (2006: £13.4m)) and the First Great Western franchise (carrying amount £22.9m (2006: £nil)) which 
are being amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of each respective franchise.
Passenger Other
Land and carrying plant and
buildings vehicle fleet equipment T otal
15 Property, plant and equipment £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 157.0 1,331.9 203.7 1,692.6
Subsidiary undertakings and businesses acquired – 5.0 – 5.0
Additions 28.6 178.8 114.2 321.6
Disposals (5.1) (43.1) (22.8) (71.0)
Reclassifications 4.1 – (4.1) –
Reclassified as held for sale – (24.5) – (24.5)
Exchange rate differences (2.9) (58.2) (5.0) (66.1)
At 31 March 2007 181.7 1,389.9 286.0 1,857.6
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2006 22.1 621.1 122.9 766.1
Charge for year 5.2 107.7 26.8 139.7
Disposals (0.9) (38.7) (19.8) (59.4)
Reclassified as held for sale – (18.1) – (18.1)
Exchange rate differences (0.8) (26.5) (3.1) (30.4)
At 31 March 2007 25.6 645.5 126.8 797.9
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2007 156.1 744.4 159.2 1,059.7 62 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Passenger Other
Land and carrying plant and
buildings vehicle fleet equipment T otal
15 Property, plant and equipment continued £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 149.1 1,228.7 161.4 1,539.2
Subsidiary undertakings and businesses acquired – 4.0 – 4.0
Additions 16.2 155.5 37.4 209.1
Disposals (5.1) (64.2) (2.9) (72.2)
Reclassifications (5.1) – 5.1 –
Reclassified as held for sale – (27.3) – (27.3)
Exchange rate differences 1.9 35.2 2.7 39.8
At 31 March 2006 157.0 1,331.9 203.7 1,692.6
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2005 23.7 581.2 99.3 704.2
Charge for year 3.6 99.0 19.4 122.0
Disposals (0.6) (52.1) (2.3) (55.0)
Reclassifications (5.1) – 5.1 –
Reclassified as held for sale – (21.5) – (21.5)
Exchange rate differences 0.5 14.5 1.4 16.4
At 31 March 2006 22.1 621.1 122.9 766.1
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2006 134.9 710.8 80.8 926.5
The carrying amount of the Group’s passenger carrying vehicle fleet includes an amount of £103.0m (2006: £44.4m) in respect
of assets held under finance leases.
At 31 March 2007 the Group had entered into contractual commitments amounting to £224.0m (2006: £65.3m), principally
representing buses ordered in the United Kingdom and commitments under the First Great Western and First Capital Connect
franchises.
16 Subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of ownership
interest is given in note 4 to the Company’s separate financial statements on page 86. 
2007 2006
17 Inventories £m £m
Spare parts and consumables 48.1 41.7
Property development work in progress 16.5 12.5
64.6 54.2
In the view of the Directors there is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement
cost. There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior year. The provision for stock obsolescence at 
the balance sheet date was £4.3m (2006: £4.4m). 63 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
2007 2006
18 Trade and other receivables £m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade debtors 262.7 279.3
Other debtors 61.8 38.8
Other prepayments and accrued income 52.8 55.0
377.3 373.1
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are short-term bank balances and cash, derivative financial instruments and short-term
trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its short-term trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet
are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their
assessment of the current economic environment. The provision for doubtful receivables at the balance sheet date was 
£2.3m (2006: £2.1m).
The credit risk on short-term cash assets and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks
with strong credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties 
and customers.
19 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
Non-current assets held for sale comprise North American yellow school buses which are surplus to requirement and are being
actively marketed on the Internet. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of such assets are included in arriving at operating
profit in the income statement. The Group expects to sell such yellow school buses within 12 months of them going onto the
‘for sale’ list.
2007 2006
20 Trade and other payables £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 194.5 129.7
Other creditors 104.7 106.5
Accruals and deferred income 346.4 294.9
Season ticket deferred income 49.5 14.0
695.1 545.1
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. 64 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
2007 2006
21 Cash and cash equivalents £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 411.2 174.4
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents matches the carrying value.
Cash and cash equivalents includes ring-fenced cash of £139.6m (2006: £119.5m). Under the terms of the Rail franchise
agreements, cash can only be distributed by the train operating companies up to the lower of amount of retained profits or the
amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios. The ring-fenced cash represents that which is not available for distribution 
or the amount required to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the balance sheet date.
2007 2006
22 Financial liabilities – borrowings £m £m
Current financial liabilities
Short-term bank loans 0.9 26.4
Bank overdrafts 0.9 4.5
1.8 30.9
Finance leases (note 23) 11.5 2.3
Loan notes (note 24) 5.2 2.8
Bond 6.875% (repayable 2013) – accrued interest 20.1 20.1
Bond 6.125% (repayable 2019) – accrued interest 3.0 3.0
23.1 23.1
T otal current financial liabilities 41.6 59.1
Non-current financial liabilities
Syndicated unsecured bank loans 308.2 264.9
Other loans 2.3 3.9
310.5 268.8
Finance leases (note 23) 70.4 10.1
Loan notes (note 24) 10.6 17.7
Bond 6.875% (repayable 2013) 296.3 295.9
Bond 6.125% (repayable 2019) 243.0 257.3
539.3 553.2
T otal non-current financial liabilities 930.8 849.8
T otal financial liabilities 972.4 908.9
Gross borrowings repayment profile
Within one year or on demand 41.6 59.1
Between one and two years 24.5 21.1
Between two and five years 351.1 271.7
Over five years 555.2 557.0
972.4 908.9
The non-current bond repayable in 2013 is measured on an amortised cost basis and had a par value of £300.0m. Interest on
the 2013 bond is payable annually in April. The non-current bond repayable in 2019 is measured on an amortised cost basis,
adjusted for certain fair value movements on the bond that are fully and effectively hedged by swaps. The 2019 bond had a 
par value of £250.0m. Interest on the 2019 bond is payable annually in January. 65 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Effective interest rates
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
2007 2006
Bank overdraft LIBOR + 1% LIBOR + 1%
Bank borrowings LIBOR + 0.225% to 0.35% LIBOR + 0.225% to 0.35%
Bond 2013 7.10% 7.10%
Bond 2019 6.18% 6.18%
Finance leases LIBOR up to LIBOR + 0.50% up to
average fixed of 6.85% average fixed of 7.00%
Loan notes LIBOR – 0.50% up to LIBOR – 0.50% up to
total fixed of 11.00% total fixed of 11.00%
2007 2006
Carrying value of gross borrowings by currency £m £m
Sterling 923.3 853.5
Euros 9.4 9.9
US Dollar 1.2 5.0
Canadian Dollar 38.5 40.5
972.4 908.9
Maturity of non-current financial liabilities 2007 2006
Finance Loan Finance Loan
Debt leases notes Bonds Total Debt leases notes Bonds Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in more than one year 
but not more than two years 1.0 12.9 10.6 – 24.5 1.2 2.2 17.7 – 21.1
Due in more than two years 
but not more than five years 309.4 41.7 – – 351.1 267.1 4.6 – – 271.7
Due in more than five years 0.1 15.8 – 539.3 555.2 0.5 3.3 – 553.2 557.0
Total 310.5 70.4 10.6 539.3 930.8 268.8 10.1 17.7 553.2 849.8
Borrowing facilities
The Group had £201.3m (2006: £211.0m) undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 March 2007. T otal bank borrowing
facilities at 31 March 2007 stood at £596.0m (2006: £597.0m) of which £520.0m (2006: £527.4m) was committed and £76.0m
(2006: £69.6m) was uncommitted. 
23 Finance leases
The Group had the following obligations under finance leases as at the balance sheet dates:
2007 2006
£m £m
Due in less than one year 11.5 2.3
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 12.9 2.2
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 41.7 4.6
Due in more than five years 15.8 3.3
Total 81.9 12.4
The lease obligations are denominated in Sterling and Canadian Dollars. The Sterling fixed rate leases of £2.5m (2006: £2.9m)
have an average remaining life of six years and an effective borrowing rate of 6.85% (2006: 7.00%). The Canadian Dollar fixed
rate leases of £1.2m (2006: £1.9m) have an average remaining life of two years and an effective borrowing rate of 6.70% (2006:
6.75%). The Group considers there to be no material difference between the fair value of the finance leases and the carrying
amount in the balance sheet.
22 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued 66 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
24 Loan notes
The Group had the following loan notes issued as at the balance sheet dates:
2007 2006
£m £m
Due in less than one year 5.2 2.8
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 10.6 17.7
Total 15.8 20.5
The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holder can request redemption.
Loan notes of £14.9m (2006: £19.7m) are supported by unsecured bank guarantees.
The loan notes have an effective borrowing rate of 8.20% (2006: 7.55%) and an average remaining term of 10 years 
(2006: 11 years) assuming that holders do not request redemption. The fair value of the loan notes has been determined to 
be £20.7m (2006: £27.0m). This has been calculated by discounting future cash flows that will arise under the loan notes.
2007 2006
25 Derivative financial instruments £m £m
Non-current assets
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) 24.9 –
Coupon swaps (fair value hedge) – 8.1
Interest rate collars (cash flow hedge) – 0.4
Fuel derivatives (cash flow hedge) 2.8 –
27.7 8.5
Current assets
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) 2.9 –
Coupon swaps (fair value hedge) 1.2 3.3
Fuel derivatives (cash flow hedge) 4.2 10.8
8.3 14.1
T otal assets 36.0 22.6
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedge) 0.3 0.9
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) – 0.9
Fuel derivatives (cash flow hedge) 1.4 –
Currency forwards (cash flow hedge) 3.3 –
5.0 1.8
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedge) – 0.4
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) – 0.4
Coupon swaps (fair value hedge) 4.1 –
Interest rate collars (cash flow hedge) 0.2 –
4.3 0.8
T otal liabilities 9.3 2.6
During the year £1.5m was debited to the hedging reserve in respect of cash flow hedges (2006: £2.0m credit). In addition 
£4.5m was recycled from the hedging reserve and credited to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 
(2006: £27.1m credit).
Financial risks and management
In addition to certain pension risks, the most material financial risks faced by the Group are the effects of changes in foreign
exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices. The Group manages these risks within the context of a set of formal treasury
policies established by the Board. Certain risk management responsibilities are formally delegated by the Board, principally 
to a sub-committee of the Board and to the Group Finance Director. 67 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Foreign currency
The Group’s principal operations outside the UK are in the US and Canada, with the US being the most significant. The Group
is exposed to foreign exchange risk in retranslating net assets and earnings in US Dollars and Canadian Dollars to Sterling 
for reporting purposes. The Group’s objective is to hedge at a minimum of 30% for US Dollar net assets and 75% for other
currencies. As at 31 March 2007 there was a net investment hedge of 33% (2006: 34%) of US net assets which were hedged
with currency swaps and US Dollar debt. The currency swaps expire in March 2011. Any exchange gain or loss realised in 
cash on the swaps at expiry would remain in equity. Retranslation risk on US Dollar earnings are substantially hedged through
natural offset by US Dollar denominated costs, principally UK fuel costs and Dollar interest costs. With the exception of UK fuel,
transactional currency exposures are minimal. Currency forward contracts from April 2007 to March 2008 have been entered
into as a cash flow hedge of US Dollar denominated fuel costs in the UK.
Interest rate risk
The Group has interest bearing cash and debt and therefore is exposed to the effects of changes to interest rates. The Group’s
policy objective is to maintain fixed interest rates at a minimum average of 75% of on-balance sheet net debt over the medium
term, so that volatility is substantially reduced year on year. The main floating rate benchmarks are UK LIBOR and US Dollar
LIBOR. The Group achieves the policy objective through fixed rate debt and cash flow hedge financial instruments, being
interest rate swaps and collars. The interest rate swaps expire in the year ending 31 March 2008, with no material impact
anticipated either to the cash flow or income statement. The US interest rate collars expire in March 2009 and carry a floor of
3.6% and a ceiling of 5.75%. They provide a partial economic hedge each year up to March 2009 on US Dollar LIBOR risk over
this period. They are not anticipated to have a material impact on either cash flow or income statement over this period as long
as the LIBOR rate remains within the collar range. At 31 March 2007, 81% (2006: 85%) of net debt was fixed with an average
duration of 3.4 years (2006: 4.1 years). It is Board policy to hedge 100% of interest rate risk in finance leases.
Fair value changes in the £250m Sterling bond relating to the LIBOR element is hedged with coupon swaps. These swaps
match the fair value movements of the bond in the income statement and have the same term as the bond. Interest income 
is received in January and payments made in March and September each year.
Commodity price risk – fuel prices
The Group purchases diesel fuel on a floating price basis in its UK Bus, UK Rail, US and Canadian bus operations and therefore
is exposed to changes in diesel prices, of which the most significant element is crude oil price risk. The Group’s policy objective
is to maintain a significant degree of fixed price protection in the short term, so that the businesses have time to prepare and
adjust for prices after the current hedge period expires. The Group uses a range of cash flow hedge financial instruments to
achieve significant fixed price certainty, mainly swaps and collars. During the year to 31 March 2007, the Group hedged 100%
of crude price risk in the UK and 76% of crude price risk in the US. 
The Group also entered into swaps for periods from April 2007 to March 2011 with the majority of these swaps relating to the
year to 31 March 2008. The swaps give rise to monthly cash flow exchanges with counterparties to offset the underlying
settlement of floating price costs, except where they have a deferred start date. Gains or losses on fuel derivatives are recycled
from equity to the income statement on qualifying hedges to achieve fixed rate fuel costs.
Credit risk
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of the financial assets as disclosed above, and trade
receivables as disclosed in note 18. Most of trade receivables are with public or quasi-public bodies, principally the UK DfT ,
Network Rail, Transport for London, UK city councils; School Bus Boards and city councils in North America. The Group does
not consider these counterparties to be a significant risk. 
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Board and it is Board policy to require institutions to
have a credit rating of at least ‘A’ from an international rating agency.
Liquidity risk
The Group maintains committed bank facilities with core banks to provide prudent levels of borrowing headroom. At 31 March
2007, the total amount of committed facilities stood at £520m (2006: £527m). It is Group policy to maintain a minimum of
£100m of committed borrowing headroom, to support financial flexibility. At 31 March 2007, committed borrowing headroom
stood at £201.3m (2006: £211.0m) under the Group’s £520m syndicated bank facility. This bank facility expires in March 2010.
25 Derivative financial instruments continued 68 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
The Group has an average debt duration at 31 March 2007 of 6.4 years (2006: 7.8 years), principally provided by its two Sterling
bonds, expiring in 2013 and 2019.
26 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the
current and prior reporting periods.
Accelerated Other
tax temporary Tax
depreciation differences losses Total
(Assets)/liabilities £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 134.3 (53.1) (40.5) 40.7
Charge/(credit) to income 32.9 32.0 (21.6) 43.3
Charge to equity – 2.6 – 2.6
Acquisition of subsidiary – (3.6) – (3.6)
Exchange differences 4.9 (0.3) (3.0) 1.6
At 31 March 2006 172.1 (22.4) (65.1) 84.6
Charge to income (note 10) 4.0 20.7 7.9 32.6
Charge to equity – 30.4 – 30.4
Exchange differences (11.0) (1.1) 7.2 (4.9)
At 31 March 2007 165.1 27.6 (50.0) 142.7
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £177m (2006: £148m). No liability has been
recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the
temporary difference and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
It has been announced that the UK corporation tax rate is to reduce from 30% to 28% on 1 April 2008 and that Industrial
Buildings Allowances will be abolished.  These changes in tax law are not expected to be enacted until during the year ended
31 March 2009 and are expected to affect the carrying value of deferred tax at 31 March 2009. The effect of the reduction in the
UK Corporation tax rate will be to reduce the deferred tax liability on UK temporary differences at 31 March 2009. The deferred
tax liability on UK property will increase at 31 March 2009 because there will be a reduction in the tax base of property that
would have qualified for Industrial Buildings Allowances prior to abolition. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £10m (2006: £10m) of capital losses.
Insurance
claims
1
Pensions Total
27 Provisions £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 30.7 6.9 37.6
Provided in the year 32.4 – 32.4
Utilised in the year (39.2) (0.6) (39.8)
Notional interest 6.9 – 6.9
Exchange rate differences (3.9) – (3.9)
At 31 March 2007 26.9 6.3 33.2
1
Insurance claims accruals due within one year at 31 March 2007 amounted to £44.0m (2006: £50.0m) and are included in ‘accruals and deferred income’
within note 20. The amount included within provisions above represents the estimate of amounts due after more than one year.
The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures for incidents occurring prior to balance sheet date. It is
anticipated that the majority of such claims will be settled within the next six years.
The pension provision relates to certain un-funded obligations that arose on the acquisition of certain UK Bus companies. 
It is anticipated that this will be utilised over several decades.  
25 Derivative financial instruments continued 69 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
2007 2006
28 Called up share capital £m £m
Authorised:
600.0m ordinary shares of 5p each
1
30.0 30.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
438.3m (2006: 398.8m) ordinary shares of 5p each 21.9 19.9
No.
m£m
At 1 April 2006 398.8 19.9
Equity share placing 39.5 2.0
At 31 March 2007 438.3 21.9
1
Subsequent to year-end the authorised share capital was increased to 4,600m shares of 5p each or £230.0m.
In February 2007 the Group issued 39.5m shares for gross proceeds of £221.4m. 3,334,407 (2006: 6,630,500) shares were 
being held as treasury shares at 31 March 2007.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Share
Hedging premium Own Retained
reserve account shares earnings
29 Statement of changes in equity £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 37.0 238.8 (18.9) (25.3)
Retained profit for the financial year – – – 107.5
Dividends paid – – – (52.0)
Movement in EBT , QUEST and treasury shares during the year – – (7.7) (8.3)
Current tax on share-based payments – – – 1.8
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes – – – 36.7
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes – – – (11.0)
Derivative hedging instrument movements (43.2) – – –
Deferred tax on derivative hedging instrument movements 8.1–––
Share-based payments provision – – – 3.2
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – 0.3
At 31 March 2006 1.9 238.8 (26.6) 52.9
Retained profit for the financial year – – – 91.7
Dividends paid – – – (57.1)
Premium arising on issue of equity shares – 219.4 – –
Expenses on issue of equity shares – (10.4) – –
Movement in EBT , QUEST and treasury shares during the year – – 9.2 (6.3)
Current tax on share-based payments – – – 1.5
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes – – – 116.9
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes – – – (35.0)
Derivative hedging instrument movements 22.8–––
Deferred tax on derivative hedging instrument movements 2.0–––
Share-based payments provision – – – 3.2
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – 2.6
At 31 March 2007 26.7 447.8 (17.4) 170.4
• the hedging reserve records the movement on designated hedging items.
• the share premium account represents the premium on shares issued since 1999. The reserve is non-distributable.
• the own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in FirstGroup plc purchased in the market and either held as treasury
shares or held in trust to satisfy the exercise of share options (see page 70). 70 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Own shares
The number of own shares held by the Group at the end of the year was 4,318,925 (2006: 6,759,709) FirstGroup plc 
ordinary shares of 5p each. Of these, 951,998 (2006: 49,742) were held by the FirstGroup plc Employee Benefit Trust, 32,520
(2006: 79,467) by the FirstGroup plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust and 3,334,407 (2006: 6,630,500) were held 
as treasury shares. Both trusts and treasury shares have waived the rights to dividend income from the FirstGroup plc shares.
The market value of the shares at 31 March 2007 was £28.7m (2006: £28.7m).
Capital
redemption Capital T otal other
reserve reserve reserves
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 1.9 2.7 4.6
There have been no movements on the capital redemption reserve or capital reserve during the year ended 31 March 2007. 
• the capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative par value of all shares bought back and cancelled. The reserve is
not distributable.
• the capital reserve arose on acquisitions in 2000. The reserve is not distributable.
30 Translation reserves £m
At 1 April 2005 (14.2)
Reclassify to hedging reserve on financial instrument recognition (7.7)
Movement for the financial year 49.6
At 31 March 2006 27.7
Movement for the financial year (85.5)
At 31 March 2007 (57.8)
• the translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency
denominated subsidiaries offset by movements on loans used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
2007 2006
31 Acquisition of businesses and subsidiary undertakings £m £m
Provisional fair values of net assets acquired:
T angible assets 5.0 4.0
Intangible assets 7.1 4.3
Other current assets 0.1 –
Other creditors (3.4) (6.2)
8.8 2.1
Goodwill (note 13) 9.1 10.3
17.9 12.4
Satisfied by cash paid and payable 17.9 12.4
There was no material difference between the book value and the provisional fair values of the net assets acquired and there
were no adjustments required in respect of accounting policy alignments. The intangible assets calculation is provisional and
will be finalised during 2007/08.
The businesses and subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year contributed £5.1m (2006: £0.7m) to the Group’s 
net operating cash flows. There were no other cash flow movements from the businesses acquired during the year or the 
previous year.
29 Statement of changes in equity continued 71 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
If the acquisition of the businesses and undertakings acquired during the year had been completed on the first day of the
financial year, Group revenues from these acquisitions for the period would have been £22.0m (2006: £10.1m) and the Group
operating profit from these acquisitions attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been £3.3m (2006: £1.6m).
The businesses acquired during the year contributed £10.3m to Group revenue and £2.5m to Group operating profit from date
of acquisition to 31 March 2007.
Due to the overall magnitude and similar profile of the acquisitions made during the year and the preceding year, the Directors
have decided not to disclose the total cost and components of each individual combination separately.
The goodwill represents the management relationships acquired and the reputation of the existing business.
The businesses and subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year and dates of acquisition were:
% Voting equity
Business acquired Date acquired instruments acquired
Ladd Bus, Inc 30 June 2006 100
TNT Bus Services, Inc 27 July 2006 100
Earl D Stires Bus Company, Inc 28 July 2006 100
School Transportation Service, Inc 2 October 2006 100
Stout’s Bus Service, Inc 1 November 2006 100
Cognisa Transportation, Inc 31 December 2006 100
2007 2006
32 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement £m £m
Operating profit before (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets 207.3 196.7
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charges 139.7 122.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 10.3 4.5
Share-based payments 3.2 3.2
Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 1.9 1.4
Operating cash flows before working capital 362.4 327.8
Increase in inventories (8.8) (9.6)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (25.8) 3.9
Increase/(decrease) in payables 40.1 (21.4)
Cash generated by operations 367.9 300.7
Corporation tax paid (5.5) (3.5)
Interest paid (62.3) (61.3)
Interest element of finance lease payments (4.6) (0.9)
Net cash from operating activities 295.5 235.0
31 Acquisition of businesses and subsidiary undertakings continued 72 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
33 Contingent liabilities
T o support subsidiary undertakings in their normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have indemnified
certain banks and insurance companies who have issued performance bonds for £264.1m (2006: £225.9m) and letters of credit
for £123.6m (2006: £138.6m). The performance bonds relate to the North American businesses of £132.0m (2006: £135.7m) and
the UK Rail franchise operations of £132.1m (2006: £90.2m). The letters of credit relate substantially to insurance arrangements
in the UK and North America.
The Company has provided unsecured loan facilities of £103m (2006: £103m) to First Greater Western Limited, a £46m (2006:
£46m) unsecured loan facility to First Capital Connect Limited, a £3.2m (2006: £3.2m) unsecured loan facility to First/Keolis
TransPennine Limited, and a £13.6m (2006: £13.6m) unsecured loan facility to First ScotRail Limited. Under these facilities, 
£10m (2006: £nil) was drawn at 31 March 2007 by First Greater Western Limited. These facilities represent contingent liabilities 
of the Company in relation to these subsidiaries, but they do not represent contingent liabilities of the Group.
The Company is party to certain unsecured guarantees granted to banks for overdraft and cash management facilities provided
to itself and subsidiary undertakings. The Company has given certain unsecured guarantees for the liabilities of its subsidiary
undertakings arising under certain loan notes, hire purchase contracts, finance leases, operating leases, supply contracts and
certain pension scheme arrangements. It also provides unsecured cross guarantees to certain subsidiary undertakings as
required by VAT legislation. UK Bus subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees on a joint and several basis to the 
Trustees of the UK Bus Occupational Pension Scheme.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have issued unsecured guarantees to the Company’s Sterling bondholders. These
unsecured guarantees rank pari passu with unsecured guarantees provided by those subsidiaries to lenders participating 
in the Group’s £520m (2006: £520m) syndicated unsecured bank facility.
2007 2006
34 Operating lease arrangements £m £m
Minimum lease payments made under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year:
Plant and machinery 8.0 25.1
Track and station access 540.1 279.2
Hire of rolling stock 152.3 106.3
Other assets 20.1 19.9
720.5 430.5
At the balance sheet dates, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Within one year 777.4 349.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,727.9 1,307.6
After five years 402.4 252.8
3,907.7 1,909.5 73 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
35 Share based payments
Equity-settled share option plans
(a) Save as you earn (SAYE)
The Group operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related share option scheme. Grants were made in December 2002,
December 2003, December 2004, April 2006 and December 2006. The scheme is based on eligible employees being granted
options and their agreement to opening a sharesave account with a nominated savings carrier and to save weekly or monthly
over a specified period. Sharesave accounts are held with Lloyds TSB. The right to exercise the option is at the employee’s
discretion at the end of the period previously chosen for a period of six months.
SAYE SAYE SAYE SAYE SAYE 
2002 2003 2004 April 2006 Dec 2006
Options Options Options Options Options
No. No. No. No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 343,812 1,193,778 2,469,178 – –
Awarded during the year – – – 1,996,187 2,478,422
Exercised during the year (193,336) (1,054,698) (16,601) (2,142) –
Lapsed during the year (150,476) (36,134) (156,790) (112,252) (22,934)
Outstanding at the end of the year – 102,946 2,295,787 1,881,793 2,455,488
Exercisable at the end of the year – 102,946–––
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 192.0 232.0 267.0 325.0 444.0
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence) 426.5 598.4 562.3 611.6 N/A
(b) Executive share option scheme (ESOS)
Options are exercisable between three and ten years of the date of grant provided that the pre-determined performance criteria
are met. 
ESOS 2001 ESOS 2002 ESOS 2003 ESOS 2004
Options Options Options Options
No. No. No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 398,333 1,085,682 1,195,874 1,340,791
Forfeited during the year – – (58,128) (64,660)
Exercised during the year (88,816) (641,562) (490,083) –
Outstanding at the end of the year 309,517 444,120 647,663 1,276,131
Exercisable at the end of the year 309,517 444,120 647,663 –
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 346.5 269.0 287.0 275.1
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence) 467.9 466.2 562.0 N/A
DBS 2003 DBS 2004 DBS 2005 DBS 2006
Options Options Options Options
(c) Deferred bonus shares (DBS) No. No. No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 245,628 267,883 346,537 –
Granted during the year – – – 714,576
Forfeited during the year (182) (2,077) (28,039) (45,301)
Exercised during the year (245,446) – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year – 265,806 318,498 669,275
Exercisable at the end of the year ––––
Weighted average exercise price (pence) Nil Nil Nil Nil
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (pence) 489.2 N/A N/A N/A 74 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
The fair values of the options granted during 2006/07 and 2005/06 were measured using a Black-Scholes model. The inputs
into the Black-Scholes model were as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted average share price (pence):
DBS 402.0 326.0
SAYE April 2006 406.2 –
Dean Finch options 402.0 –
SAYE December 2006 555.0 –
Weighted average exercise price (pence):
DBS – –
SAYE April 2006 325.0 –
Dean Finch options – –
SAYE December 2006 444.0 –
Expected volatility – all options 35% 35%
Expected life
– Dean Finch options 5 years –
– SAYE schemes 3 years –
– Deferred share bonus plans 5 years 3 years
Risk-free rate of interest
– DBS 4.4% 4.99%
– SAYE April 2006 4.4% –
– SAYE December 2006 5.0% –
– Dean Finch options 4.4% –
Expected dividend yield
– DBS 4.5% 4.5%
– SAYE April 2006 4.5% –
– SAYE December 2006 3.5% –
– Dean Finch options 4.5% –
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous 
five years. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of
non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Allowances have been made for the SAYE schemes for the fact that, amongst a group of recipients some are expected to 
leave before an entitlement vests. The accounting charge is then adjusted over the vesting period to take account of actual
forfeitures, so although the total charge is unaffected by the pre-vesting forfeiture assumption, the timing of the recognition 
of the expense will be sensitive to it. Fair values for the SAYE include a 10% p.a. pre-vesting leaver assumption whereas the
Executive and deferred share plans exclude any allowance for pre-vesting forfeitures.
The Group used the inputs noted above to measure the fair value of the new share options. 
(d) Buy As You Earn (BAYE) scheme
BAYE enables eligible employees to purchase shares from their gross income. The Company provides two matching shares 
for every three shares bought by employees, subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to the value of £20 per
employee per month. If the shares are held in trust for five years or more, no income tax and national insurance will be payable.
The matching shares will be forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are removed from trust within three years 
of award.
At 31 March 2007 there were  6,609 (2006: 4,576) participants in the BAYE scheme who have cumulatively purchased
2,264,621 (2006: 1,781,489) shares with the Company contributing 679,416 (2006: 553,009) matching shares on a 
cumulative basis. 
The Group recognised total expenses of £3.2m (2006: £3.2m) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
35 Share based payments continued 75 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
(e) LTIP
Options still unexercised under the LTIP are as follows:
2007 2006 Award price
No. No. (p)
Date of award
3 July 2000 95,370 145,452 236.0
2007 2006 Award price
(f) Dean Finch options No. No. (p)
Awarded during the year 200,000 – nil
The options have vesting conditions based on Group EPS targets being achieved and profit targets on the First Great Western
franchise being achieved or exceeded.
36 Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees. The assets of the schemes
are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. Where there are employees who leave the
schemes prior to vesting fully in the contributions, the contributions payable by the Group are reduced by the amount of
forfeited contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £3.1m (2006: £2.8m) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group 
at rates specified in the rules of the plans. 
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates or participates in a number of pension schemes which cover the majority of UK employees and certain
North American employees. These are principally defined benefit schemes under which benefits provided are based on
employees’ number of years of service and either career average or final salary. The scope of benefits varies between schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held in separately administered trusts which are managed independently of the Group’s
finances by investment managers appointed by the schemes’ trustees.
The various defined benefit schemes include five UK Bus Division schemes where the subsidiary undertaking is a participating
employer in a scheme operated by a local authority. These schemes are subject to relevant local government regulations. 
First Greater Western Limited, First Capital Connect Limited, First ScotRail Limited, GB Rail and TransPennine Express have
sections in the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS), which is an industry-wide arrangement. Under the terms of the RPS, any fund
deficit or surplus is shared by the employer (60%) and the employees (40%).
At their last triennial valuations, the defined benefit schemes had funding levels between 76.0% and 99.6% (2006: 69.0% and
99.6%). The market value of the assets at 31 March 2007 for all defined benefit schemes totalled £2,507m (2006: £1,993m). 
Contributions are paid to all defined benefit schemes in accordance with rates recommended by the schemes’ actuaries. 
The valuations are made using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The valuation assumptions used for accounting purposes have been made uniform to Group standards, as appropriate, when
each scheme is actuarially valued.
2007 2006 2005
% %%
Key assumptions used:
Discount rate 5.45 5.0 5.5
Expected return on scheme assets 7.5 7.3 7.6
Expected rate of salary increases 4.3 4.1 4.1
Inflation 2.8 2.6 2.6
Future pension increases 2.8 2.6 2.6
35 Share based payments continued 76 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Current service cost 75.2 53.4 46.1
Interest cost 102.0 89.0 80.0
Expected return on scheme assets (140.5) (107.6) (87.9)
Interest on franchise adjustment (1.0) (2.3) (1.5)
Past service cost (13.2) (16.6) –
22.5 15.9 36.7
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The actual return on scheme assets was £191.1m (2006: £348.0m).
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension 
schemes is as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 2,506.7 1,992.6 1,578.4
Present value of defined benefit obligations (2,488.5) (2,193.8) (1,881.8)
Rail franchise adjustment (60%) 2.2 38.3 41.7
Irrecoverable surplus (6.8) ––
Adjustment for employee share of RPS deficits (40%) 10.2 30.9 40.6
Surplus/(deficits) in schemes 23.8 (132.0) (221.1)
This amount is presented in the balance sheet as follows:
Non-current assets 57.1 ––
Non-current liabilities (33.3) (132.0) (221.1)
23.8 (132.0) (221.1)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations (DBO) were as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2,193.8 1,881.8 1,415.8
Cessation of rail franchises (332.9) ––
New rail franchises 594.8 – 294.2
Group service cost 75.2 53.4 46.1
Group past service cost (13.2) (16.6) –
Group interest cost 102.0 89.0 80.0
Employee share of change in DBO (not attributable to franchise adjustment) 53.5 73.6 45.0
Actuarial (gain)/loss (133.6) 145.8 38.4
Benefit payments (47.8) (35.0) (36.9)
Currency (gain)/loss (3.3) 1.8 (0.8)
At 31 March 2,488.5 2,193.8 1,881.8
36 Retirement benefit schemes continued 77 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
At 1 April 1,992.6 1,578.4 1,137.0
Cessation of rail franchises (289.5) ––
New rail franchises 524.0 – 246.6
Expected return on assets 140.5 107.6 87.9
Company contributions 95.3 68.3 54.8
Employee contributions 41.0 32.9 26.2
Employee share of return on assets 37.6 50.5 15.6
Gain on assets 15.8 188.7 47.6
Benefits paid from schemes (47.8) (35.0) (36.9)
Currency (loss)/gain (2.8) 1.2 (0.4)
At 31 March 2,506.7 1,992.6 1,578.4
Movements in the franchise adjustment were as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
At 1 April 63.9 69.2 31.9
Cessation of rail franchises (43.4) ––
New rail franchises 11.7 –16.3
Interest on franchise adjustment 1.0 2.3 1.5
Employee share of change in DBO (attributable to franchise adjustment) (11.4) (2.0) 8.3
Actuarial (loss)/gain on franchise adjustment (18.1) (5.6) 11.2
At 31 March 3.7 63.9 69.2
The analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
Expected Fair value Expected Fair value Expected Fair value
return of assets return of assets return of assets
2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005
%£m %£m % £m
Equity instruments 8.45 1,756.9 8.35 1,444.8 8.8 1,094.4
Debt instruments 4.8 362.0 4.3 317.6 4.7 282.4
Property 6.3 256.2 6.3 135.9 6.8 121.8
Other assets 4.0 131.6 3.6 94.3 3.6 79.8
2,506.7 1,992.6 1,578.4
The expected rates of return on assets at 31 March 2007, 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 were determined by looking at
the individual asset classes and applying a model developed by Aon, an independent firm of Actuaries.
36 Retirement benefit schemes continued 78 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 2,506.7 1,992.6 1,578.4
Present value of defined benefit obligations (2,488.5) (2,193.8) (1,881.8)
Rail franchise adjustment (60%) 2.2 38.3 41.7
Irrecoverable surplus (6.8) ––
Adjustment for employee share of RPS deficits (40%) 10.2 30.9 40.6
Surplus/(deficits) in the schemes 23.8 (132.0) (221.1)
Experience gain on scheme assets
Amount (£m) 15.8 188.7 47.6
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 0.6 10.8 3.4
Experience gain on scheme liabilities
Amount (£m) 12.4 13.6 15.5
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) 0.5 0.7 0.8
Experience gain on scheme liabilities after franchise adjustment
Amount (£m) 14.2 8.0 26.7
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) 0.6 0.4 1.4
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during the financial year to 31 March 2008 is
£74.1m (year to 31 March 2007: £78.1m).
Accounting for UK Rail pension arrangements
The Group recognises its share of Train Operating Companies’ deficits that the Group expects to fund over the term of the
respective franchises. This is accounted for by way of a franchise adjustment. 
Had the Group accounted for UK Rail pensions as if the respective franchises had an indefinite duration, the impact on the
financial statements would have been as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Balance sheet
Pension deficit (2.2) (38.3) (41.7)
Intangible assets (43.6) (16.5) (19.4)
Deferred taxation 13.7 16.4 18.3
Impact on net assets (32.1) (38.4) (42.8)
Income statement
Unwinding of discount on franchise adjustment (1.0) (2.3) (1.5)
Intangible asset amortisation 8.2 2.9 1.6
Deferred taxation (2.2) (0.2) –
`
Impact on profit for the period from continuing operations 5.0 0.4 0.1
Statement of recognised income and expense
Actuarial losses/(gains) on franchise adjustment 18.1 5.6 (11.2)
36 Retirement benefit schemes continued 79 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
37 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and
are not disclosed in this note. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each
of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual
Directors is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
Y ear to Y ear to
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Basic salaries 1.3 1.2
Performance related bonuses 0.7 0.6
Benefits in kind 0.1 0.1
Fees 0.3 0.3
Pension contributions 0.2 0.2
Share-based payment 0.5 0.4
3.1 2.8 80 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FirstGroup plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the
Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of total recognised income and expense, Consolidated balance
sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 37. These Group financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited. 
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 
31 March 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We report to you whether in our
opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. In addition we report 
to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does
not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form 
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section and
consider whether it is consistent with the Group financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. 81 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation;
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS 
As explained in note 2 of the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board. 
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended. 
Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London 
United Kingdom
15 May 2007 82 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group financial summary
IFRS UK GAAP
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Consolidated income statement £m £m £m £m £m
Group turnover 3,708.8 3,030.9 2,693.4 2,479.0 2,291.0
Operating profit before amortisation charges, 
non-recurring bid costs and other non-recurring items 259.2 229.7 214.8 204.1 216.1
Amortisation charges (10.3) (4.5) (2.2) (25.9) (25.8)
Non-recurring bid costs (19.3) (28.5) (11.9) (6.7) (3.4)
Other non-recurring items (22.3) – – (6.8) (7.2)
Operating profit before (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets 207.3 196.7 200.7 164.7 179.7
Operating profit 203.6 210.7 204.0 184.3 189.7
Net finance charge (63.4) (53.3) (48.3) (42.8) (56.3)
Exceptional interest charge – – – (18.7) –
Profit before taxation 140.2 157.4 155.7 122.8 133.4
Taxation (38.1) (40.0) (41.1) (30.6) (35.8)
Profit after taxation 102.1 117.4 114.6 92.2 97.6
EBITDA 398.9 351.7 322.4 307.1 315.3
Earnings per share pence pence pence pence pence
Adjusted basic 33.7 30.9 28.9 27.3 26.8
Basic 23.1 27.4 27.1 22.3 23.4
Adjusted cash 68.6 61.9 55.8 52.4 50.6
Consolidated balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 1,681.6 1,474.7 1,335.4 1,258.8 1,272.5
Net current assets/(liabilities) 70.0 (38.0) (58.1) (92.9) (115.5)
Creditors: amounts due after more than one year (968.4) (982.6) (977.4) (682.8) (630.9)
Provision for liabilities and charges (175.9) (122.2) (75.4) (128.1) (124.0)
Equity minority interests (11.1) (12.7) (10.6) (2.1) (1.1)
Equity shareholders’ funds 596.2 319.2 213.9 352.9 401.0
Share data
Number of shares in issue (excluding treasury shares and shares in trusts) million million million million million
At year end 434.0 392.0 393.6 403.0 413.4
Average 397.9 392.6 399.2 410.0 416.7
Share price pence pence pence pence pence
At year end 665 425 343 268 240
High 668 426 379 306 339
Low 381 311 256 219 200
Market capitalisation £m £m £m £m £m
At year end 2,886 1,665 1,369 1,078 992
The amounts disclosed for 2004 and earlier periods are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate
amounts for periods prior to the date of transition to IFRSs.  83 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Company balance sheet
At 31 March 2007
2006
2007 restated
1
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 1,693.3 1,690.1
Current assets
Financial assets – cash and cash equivalents 213.1 –
– derivative financial instruments 5 35.0 16.5
Debtors 6 973.1 895.6
1,221.2 912.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (699.7) (666.5)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 5 (5.0) (1.8)
– current bond liability (23.1) (23.1)
(727.8) (691.4)
Net current assets 493.4 220.7
T otal assets less current liabilities 2,186.7 1,910.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (847.6) (823.4)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 5 (4.3) (0.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – (0.1)
1,334.8 1,086.5
Financed by:
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 21.9 19.9
Share premium account 9 447.8 238.8
Other reserves 9 262.1 261.5
Own shares 9 (17.4) (26.6)
Profit and loss account 9 620.4 592.9
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,334.8 1,086.5
1 
Restated on adoption of UITF 44 (see note 1)  84 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company financial statements
1 Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The following accounting policies have been used consistently throughout the year and the preceding year in accordance 
with UK GAAP with the exception of the adoption of UITF 44. 
Cash flow statement
The Company has taken the advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 (revised) not to disclose a cash flow statement.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
For investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration, including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost 
is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued. Any premium is ignored.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction. At each
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates
prevailing at the relevant balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the
retranslation of non-monetary items at each balance sheet date are included in the profit or loss for the accounting period.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Provision is made for deferred tax 
on all timing differences except those arising from the revaluation of fixed assets for which there is no binding agreement to sell
on property gains if it is anticipated that rollover relief will be available and on the undistributed profits of overseas subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures. Deferred tax is calculated at the rates at which it is estimated the tax will arise. Deferred tax
assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. The deferred tax
provision is not discounted to net present value.
Financial instruments
From 1 April 2005 derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and then for reporting purposes are
remeasured to fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks, foreign currency risks and fuel price risks. Use
of such financial instruments is governed by policies and delegated authorities approved by the Board. The Company does not
use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
The main derivative financial instruments used by the Company are interest rate swaps and collars, fuel swaps and collars, and
cross currency interest rate swaps. Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair
value at the reported balance sheet date. The fair values are calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates
and fuel prices at the period end, and supported by counterparty confirmations.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges 
or foreign currency hedges of a foreign net investment are recognised in the profit or loss as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity 
is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their 
risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value 
with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Related party transactions
As permitted under FRS 8, Related party transactions, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption not to disclose
transactions between Group companies. 85 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after the deduction of issue costs. The carrying amount is increased 
by the amortisation of debt issuance fees in respect of the accounting period and reduced by repayments made in the period.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the
period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Change in accounting policy
The Company has adopted the requirements of UITF 44: FRS 20 Group and Treasury Share Transactions as the Company
awards share options to employees working in different entities across the Group. The impact of this change in accounting
policy is that both investments and retained profits are £6.1m higher at 31 March 2006 than previously stated.
2 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss
account for the year. FirstGroup plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 of £85.4m (2006: profit 
of £15.5m).
The auditors’ remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.1m (2006: £0.1m). 
The Company had no employees in the current or preceding financial year.
3 Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2007 2006
£m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 9.55p (2005: 8.69p) per share 37.5 34.1
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 5.0p (2006: 4.55p) per share 19.6 17.9
57.1 52.0
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 10.5p (2006: 9.55p) per share 45.6 37.5
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included
as a liability in these financial statements.
Unlisted
subsidiary Other
undertakings investments Total
4 Fixed asset investments £m £m £m
Cost
At 31 March 2006 as previously stated 1,689.4 8.1 1,697.5
Prior year adjustment on adoption of UITF 44 6.1 – 6.1
At 31 March 2006 as restated 1,695.5 8.1 1,703.6
Additions 3.2 – 3.2
At 31 March 2007 1,698.7 8.1 1,706.8
Provisions
At 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 (5.4) (8.1) (13.5)
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 1,693.3 – 1,693.3
At 31 March 2006 1,690.1 – 1,690.1
1 Significant accounting policies continued 86 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings of FirstGroup plc at the end of the year were:
UK local bus and coach operators First Midland Red Buses Limited Transit contracting and fleet 
CentreWest London Buses Limited First PMT Limited maintenance
First Aberdeen Limited+ First South Y orkshire Limited First Transit, Inc†
First Beeline Buses Limited First Wessex Limited SKE Support Services, Inc†
First Bristol Limited First West Y orkshire Limited
First Capital East Limited First Devon & Cornwall Limited Rail companies
First Capital North Limited First Y ork Limited First Capital Connect Limited
First Somerset & Avon Limited Leicester CityBus Limited (94%) First Greater Western Limited
First Cymru Buses Limited Northampton Transport Limited FirstInfo Limited
First Eastern Counties Buses Limited First/Keolis T ransPennine Limited (55%)
First Edinburgh Limited+ North America school bus operators Hull Trains Company Limited (80%)
First Essex Buses Limited First Student, Inc† GB Railfreight Limited
First Glasgow (No. 1) Limited+ FirstBus Canada Limited‡ First ScotRail Limited
First Glasgow (No. 2) Limited+ FirstGroup America, Inc†
First Hampshire and Dorset Limited FirstGroup USA, Inc†
First Manchester Limited Cardinal Transportation Group, Inc†
Cardinal Coach Lines Limited‡ (60%)
All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned at the end of the year except where percentage of ownership is shown above. 
All these companies above are incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales except those marked + which
are registered in Scotland, those marked † which are incorporated in the United States of America and those marked ‡ which
are registered in Canada.
All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares, with the exception of Leicester CityBus Limited where the Group
owns 100% of its redeemable cumulative preference shares, as well as 94% of its ordinary shares.
All of these subsidiary undertakings are owned via intermediate holding companies. 
Advantage has been taken of section 231(5) of the Companies Act 1985 to list only those undertakings as are required to be
mentioned in that provision, as an exhaustive list would involve a statement of excessive length.
Other investments
The interest in other investments at the end of the year is a 6% interest in the ordinary share capital of Prepayment Cards
Limited, which is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales. 
4 Fixed asset investments continued
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued 87 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
2007 2006
5 Derivative financial instruments £m £m
Non-current assets
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) 24.9 –
Coupon swaps (fair value hedge) – 8.1
Interest rate collars (cash flow hedge) – 0.4
Fuel derivatives (cash flow hedge) 2.8 –
27.7 8.5
Current assets
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) 2.9 –
Coupon swaps (fair value hedge) 1.2 3.3
Fuel derivatives (cash flow hedge) 3.2 4.7
7.3 8.0
T otal assets 35.0 16.5
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedge) 0.3 0.9
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) – 0.9
Fuel derivatives (cash flow hedge) 1.4 –
Currency forwards (cash flow hedge) 3.3 –
5.0 1.8
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedge) – 0.4
Cross currency swaps (net investment hedge) – 0.4
Interest rate collars (cash flow hedge) 0.2 –
Coupon swaps (fair value hedge) 4.1 –
4.3 0.8
T otal liabilities 9.3 2.6
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 25 for parent company accounts.
The disclosures are included within the Group accounts. 
2007 2006
6 Debtors £m £m
Amounts due within one year
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 972.6 895.6
Deferred tax asset 0.5 –
973.1 895.6
2007 2006
7 Creditors £m £m
Amounts due within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 161.2 175.7
Loan notes 5.2 1.3
Corporation tax 2.3 3.5
Other creditors 0.8 0.3
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 526.1 478.5
Accruals and deferred income 4.1 7.2
699.7 666.5 88 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued
2007 2006
7 Creditors continued £m £m
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Bank loans
– Due in more than two years but not more than five years 308.3 264.9
Loan notes
– Due in more than one year but not more than two years – 5.3
£300.0m Sterling bond – 6.875% 2013 296.3 295.9
£250.0m bond – 6.125% 2019 243.0 257.3
847.6 823.4
Borrowing facilities
The maturity profile of the Company’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities is as follows:
2007 2006
Facilities maturing: £m £m
More than two years 201.0 202.6
2007 2006
8 Called up share capital £m £m
Authorised
600.0m ordinary shares of 5p each
1
30.0 30.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each 21.9 19.9
1
Subsequent to year-end the authorised share capital was increased to 4,600m shares of 5p each or £230.0m.
The Company had 438.3m (2006: 398.8m) shares in issue at 31 March 2007 including 3,334,407 (2006: 6,630,500) shares held
as treasury shares at this date. During the year 39.5m shares were allotted with a nominal value of £2.0m for a gross
consideration of £221m.
Share Profit
premium Own and loss
account shares account
9 Reserves £m £m £m
At 31 March 2006 as previously stated 238.8 (26.6) 586.8
Prior year adjustment on adoption of UITF 44 – – 6.1
At 31 March 2006 as restated 238.8 (26.6) 592.9
Retained profit for the year – – 85.4
Dividends paid – – (57.1)
Share-based provision – – 3.2
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 219.4 – –
Expenses on issue of equity shares (10.4) – –
Movement in EBT , QUEST and treasury shares during the year – 9.2 (6.3)
Foreign exchange differences – – 2.3
At 31 March 2007 447.8 (17.4) 620.4
Own shares
The number of own shares held by the Group at the end of the year was 4,318,925 (2006: 6,759,709) FirstGroup plc ordinary
shares of 5p each. Of these, 951,998 (2006: 49,742) were held by the FirstGroup plc Employee Benefit Trust, 32,520 (2006:
79,467) by the FirstGroup plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust and 3,334,407 (2006: 6,630,500) were held as treasury
shares. Both trusts and treasury shares have waived the rights to dividend income from the FirstGroup plc shares. The market
value of the shares at 31 March 2007 was £28.7m (2006: £28.7m). 89 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Capital
Hedging redemption Capital Merger T otal other
reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves
9 Reserves continued £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 (0.6) 1.9 93.8 166.4 261.5
Derivative hedging instrument movement 0.6––– 0.6
At 31 March 2007 – 1.9 93.8 166.4 262.1
2006
2007 restated
10 Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds £m £m
Profit for the financial year 85.4 15.5
Dividends (57.1) (52.0)
28.3 (36.5)
Share-based provision 3.2 3.2
Issue of equity shares 211.0 –
Movement in EBT , QUEST and treasury shares during the year 2.9 (16.1)
Derivative hedging instrument movement 0.6 30.9
Foreign exchange differences 2.3 (1.2)
Net addition to/(reduction in) equity shareholders’ funds 248.3 (19.7)
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year (as previously reported) 1,086.5 1,103.3
Prior year adjustment – 2.9
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year (restated) 1,086.5 1,106.2
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 1,334.8 1,086.5
11 Contingent liabilities 
T o support subsidiary undertakings in their normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have indemnified
certain banks and insurance companies who have issued performance bonds for £264.1m (2006: £225.9m) and letters of credit
for £123.6m (2006: £138.6m). The performance bonds relate to the North American businesses of £132.0m (2006: £135.7m)
and the UK Rail franchise operations of £132.1m (2006: £90.2m). The letters of credit relate substantially to insurance
arrangements in the UK and North America.
The Company has provided unsecured loan facilities of £103m (2006: £103m) to First Greater Western Limited, a £46m (2006:
£46m) unsecured loan facility to First Capital Connect Limited, a £3.2m (2006: £3.2m) unsecured loan facility to First/Keolis
TransPennine Limited, and a £13.6m (2006: £13.6m) unsecured loan facility to First ScotRail Limited. Under these facilities,
£10m (2006: £nil) was drawn at 31 March 2007 by First Greater Western Limited.
The Company is party to certain unsecured guarantees granted to banks for overdraft and cash management facilities
provided to itself and subsidiary undertakings. The Company has given certain unsecured guarantees for the liabilities of its
subsidiary undertakings arising under certain loan notes, hire purchase contracts, finance leases, operating leases, supply
contracts and certain pension scheme arrangements. It also provides unsecured cross guarantees to certain subsidiary
undertakings as required by VAT legislation. UK Bus subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees on a joint and several
basis to the Trustees of the UK Bus Occupational Pension Scheme.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have issued unsecured guarantees to the Company’s Sterling bondholders. These
unsecured guarantees rank pari passu with unsecured guarantees provided by those subsidiaries to lenders participating in 
the Group’s £520m (2006: £520m) syndicated unsecured bank facility. 90 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FirstGroup plc
We have audited the individual Company financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which
comprise balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 11. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report
to you whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements. In addition we
report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited parent company financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
parent company financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2007; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
United Kingdom
15 May 2007 91 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder information
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s share register is maintained on our behalf by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who are responsible for making dividend
payments and updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders’ addresses and purchases and sales of the
Company’s shares. If you have any questions about your shareholding in the Company or need to notify any changes to your
personal details you should contact: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. 
T elephone: 0870 600 3973.
Employees with queries about shares held in the Company’s employee share schemes should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars
at the same address or by telephoning 0870 241 3938.
Duplicate shareholder accounts
If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may indicate that more than one account is held in your name on
the Register. This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you believe more than one
account exists in your name you may contact the Registrars to request that the accounts are combined. There is no charge for
this service.
Direct dividend payments
If you would like your dividend to be paid directly into your bank or building society account, you should contact the Registrars
or complete the dividend mandate attached to your dividend cheque. Mandating your dividends has a number of advantages.
Firstly, the dividend will go into your account on the payment date – there is no chance of it being delayed in the post and you
do not have to wait for a cheque to clear. Secondly, the payment method is more secure than receiving a cheque through the
post. Thirdly, you still receive tax information about the dividend, which is sent direct to you at your registered address. 
Online information
The Registrars also provide an online service enabling you to access details of your shareholding. T o view your details and 
a range of general information about holding shares, visit www.shareview.co.uk.
FirstGroup policy on discounts for shareholders
Shareholders are reminded that it is not Group policy to offer travel or other discounts to shareholders, as they may be used
only by a small number of individuals. The Group would rather maximise dividends, which are of benefit to all shareholders.
Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from
organisations that use it as a mailing list. T o limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, write to the Mailing Preference
Society, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7EZ or register online at www.mpsonline.org.uk.
Shareholder profile
Number of
At 30 April 2007 holders % Shares held %
By category
Individuals 40,94095.150,287,93311.5
Banks and nominees 1,995 4.5 374,619,736 85.5
Insurance and assurance 2 – 10,300 –
Other companies 231 0.4 13,353,781 3.0
Other institutions 3 – 7,048 –
43,171 100.0 438,278,798 100.0
By size of holding
1-1,000 33,42177.48,440,4541.9
1,001-5,000 7,45017.316,374,3493.7
5,001-10,000 1,1762.78,164,9441.9
10,001-100,000 8051.922,791,1855.2
Over 100,000 319 0.7 382,507,866 87.3
43,171 100.0 438,278,798 100.0 92 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Annual General Meeting 12 July 2007
Shares trade ex dividend 18 July 2007
Record date for final dividend* 20 July 2007
Final dividend payment 24 August 2007
Interim results announced November 2007
Interim dividend paid February 2008
Preliminary announcement of full year results May 2008
*Shareholders recorded on the register at this date will receive the final dividend.
Financial calendar Group overview
We are the leader in safe, innovative, reliable,
sustainable transport services – global in scale
and local in approach.
UK Rail: We are the UK’ s largest rail
operator running nearly a quarter of the
UK passenger rail network and carrying
some 260 million passengers a year .
We have a strong, balanced portfolio and we are the only
operator to run every type of overground rail service in the
UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight sleepers
to local branch lines, regional and commuter services and
open access, light rail and freight operations. We operate
four passenger rail franchises: First Capital Connect, First
Great Western, First ScotRail and First T ransPennine
Express. We also operate Hull T rains, a non-franchised open
access operator . We also provide freight services through
GB Railfreight and operate the Croydon T ramlink network
which carries over 24 million passengers per annum. We
have a strong track record of innovation and investment
delivering improved services, such as new rolling stock
and customer facilities across our rail operations.
Our fleet of nearly 9,000 buses carries 2.9 million
passengers every day in over 40 major towns and cities.
The majority of our operations are in urban areas where 
the bus is the most effective means of tackling traffic
congestion. We continue to develop and promote 
effective partnerships and we are working with local
authorities and other stakeholders to provide punctual 
and reliable services for passengers through Punctuality
Improvement Partnerships, bus priority and other traffic
management schemes.
First Student
We are the second largest provider of student transportation in
North America with a fleet of approximately 22,000 yellow school
buses, operating every day across the US and Canada. We are
dedicated to providing the safest and most efficient student
transportation service in North America. Our ethos is ‘A safer 
and better way to the school day’.
First Transit
We are one of the largest private sector providers of transit
management and contracting, managing public transport systems
on behalf of transit authorities in cities such as Los Angeles,
Houston and Denver . We are also one of the largest providers of
airport shuttle bus services in the US, serving airports in cities 
such as Baltimore, Philadelphia and Miami. We also manage call
centres, paratransit operations and other light transit activities.
First Services
Our Services division is the largest private sector provider of
vehicle maintenance and support services in the US. We provide
fleet maintenance for private and public sector customers such as
the Federal Government, cities and fire and police departments.
We also provide a range of services including vehicle maintenance,
logistics support and facilities management to public and private
sector clients including the US Navy and US Air Force.
UK Bus: We are the UK’s largest bus
operator , running more than one in 
five of all local bus services.
North America: Headquartered
in Cincinnati, Ohio, our three 
divisions have operations across 
the US and Canada.
UK Bus operations UK Rail operations
First ScotRail
Hull Trains
First Great Western
First TransPennine 
Express
First Capital Connect
GB Railfreight
Sleeper Trains are shown as 
dotted lines in the corresponding 
rail company colour.
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
First Student
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
St. Croix, 
Virgin Islands
Puerto Rico
First Services
Cincinnati
Seattle
Alaska
Washington
New York
Detroit
CANADA
USA
Miami
Puerto Rico
Chicago
Los Angeles
San Francisco
First Transit
Designed by Pauffley.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, a Carbon
Neutral
®
company.
The paper used to produce this Report is
made from Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF)
pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
The inks are vegetable based. The printer 
and manufacturing mill is accredited with 
the ISO 14001 Environmental Management
System (BS-EN-ISO12001:2006). 
When you have finished with this Report,
please dispose of it responsibly. Annual Report and Accounts 2007
This has been a year of excellent progress 
across the Group, building on our position 
as the leading transport provider .
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality 
and reliable services throughout our business. 
The safety of our passengers and employees 
is our highest priority and we strive to lead the 
industry in this area and achieve the highest 
possible standards across the Group. 
44 Consolidated balance sheet
45 Consolidated cash flow statement
46 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
80 Independent auditors’ report
82 Group financial summary
83 Company balance sheet
84 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
90 Independent auditors’ report
91 Shareholder information
92 Financial calendar
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
3 Chief Executive’s review
17 Finance Director’s review
22 Board of Directors
24 Corporate governance
31 Directors’ remuneration report
38 Directors’ report
41 Directors’ responsibilities
42 Consolidated income statement
43 Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
FirstGroup plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Principal and Registered Office
FirstGroup plc
395 King Street
Aberdeen AB24 5RP
Telephone: 01224 650100
Facsimile: 01224 650140
Registered in Scotland
number SC157176
London Office
FirstGroup plc
50 Eastbourne Terrace
Paddington
London W2 6LX
Telephone: 020 7291 0505
Facsimile: 020 7636 1338
www.firstgroup.com
