 FKI plc Annual report 2007
FKI plc
Falcon Works 
PO Box 7713 
Meadow Lane 
Loughborough 
Leicestershire
LE1 1 1ZF 
T +44 (0)1509 612837
F +44 (0)1509 612339
www.fki.co.uk
Driving Growth
FKI plc Annual report 2007 Financial highlights
£1,330.9m Turnover (2006: £1,273.4m)
£100.6m Operating profit before special items 
(2006: £100.0m)
£65.3m Profit before taxation from continuing operations
(2006: £70.5m)
£38.6m Cash flow from operating activities 
(2006: £122.6m)
£329.9m Net debt (2006: £304.7m)
8.7p Adjusted earnings per share
1
(2006: 9.7p)
4.5p Proposed dividend per share (2006: 4.5p)
01 Group at a glance
02 Chairman’s statement
Operating and financial review
04 Chief Executive’s introduction
06 Lifting Products and Services
08 Energy Technology
10 FKI Logistex
12 Hardware
14 Outlook
15 Financial review
Corporate social responsibility report
21 Introduction
22 Social and ethical policy and practice
24 Health and Safety policy and practice
27 The environment
Governance
32 Board of Directors
34 Corporate governance
37 Directors’ report
40 Remuneration report
Group financial statements
51 Independent auditor’s report
52 Consolidated income statement
53 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Consolidated cash flow statement
56 Consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense
57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company financial statements
107 Independent auditor’s report
108 Company balance sheet
109 Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
121 Five year record under IFRS
122 Five year record under UK GAAP
123 Key dates
123 Principal subsidiary undertakings
124 Corporate information
124 Shareholders’ information
1
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the operating profit/loss 
for the period, before special items, profit/losses on disposal of discontinued
operations, fair value gains/losses on financial instruments and exchange
gains/losses included within net finance costs and income and taxation 
related to those items by the weighted average number of shares in issue
during the period. The profit/loss of discontinued operations is included as 
part of the profit for the year. A full reconciliation between the profit and loss
used in the calculation of basic earnings per share and adjusted earnings 
per share is included in note 16 to the Financial Statements.
  01 FKI plc
FKI plc is a major international diversified engineering group. The Group 
is driven by value-based metrics, principally return on invested capital, 
and actively manages the strategy and performance of its businesses. 
The Group’ s objective is to maximise the value of the portfolio as a whole 
and to deliver growth in shareholder value through increased focus on
businesses that have superior and sustainable market positions in sizeable,
attractive markets, leading brands and world-class technology .
Lifting Products 
and Services
One of the top three in the
world for wire and wire rope. 
A world leader in fittings and
lifting products. World
number one in large shears.
Turnover:
£434.2m
Businesses:
Energy Technology
World number one
independent supplier of
turbogenerators and leading
supplier of other electricity
generating machinery 
and power infrastructure
equipment.
Turnover:
£344.4m
Businesses:
FKI Logistex
A major worldwide provider
of automated material
handling systems.
Turnover:
£372.6m
Businesses:
Hardware
US number one in window
hardware and storm and
screen door hardware. US
number one in mechanisms
for ergonomic solutions.
Turnover:
£179.7m
Businesses:
Group at a glance 02 FKI plc Chairman’s statement
“This has been another year 
of good progress for the 
Group with improvement in
operating performance and 
a further step forward in the
strategic development of 
the business.”
Gordon Page Chairman 03 FKI plc Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
This has been another year of good progress for the Group
with improvement in operating performance and a further
step forward in the strategic development of the business.
The economic conditions facing the Group have been
somewhat mixed: those businesses supplying extractive
industries and energy have enjoyed buoyant demand, whilst
those supplying the US housing market have suffered from
a severe drop in US housing starts.The movement of the
Sterling/Dollar relationship in the year has adversely
affected the translation of profits. The overall effect of
currency translation reduced operating profit before special
items by £4.7 million which partly masks the progress
made by the Group. Rising and volatile commodity prices,
particularly for copper and zinc, have adversely affected
operating margins and profits as businesses have been
unable to pass on all increases immediately.
Overall turnover from continuing businesses grew by 
4.5% to £1,330.9 million (2006: £1,273.4 million) 
with operating profits before special items flat at 
£100.6 million (2006: £100.0 million). Profit before tax
from continuing activities decreased by 7.4% to £65.3
million (2006: £70.5 million) and adjusted earnings per
share reduced by 10.3% to 8.7p (2006: 9.7p).
During the year investment has been made in higher levels
of working capital in order to support increased sales
activity. Reported net debt at the end of the period was
£329.9 million, an increase in the year of £25.2 million.
Reflecting the Group’s underlying performance, the Board
has proposed to pay a final dividend of 3.0p per share,
bringing the total for the year to 4.5p per share the 
same level as last year.The final dividend, if agreed 
by shareholders, will be paid on 5 October 2007 
to shareholders on the register at 7 September 2007.
During the year the acquisition of Harrington Generators
was completed and the sale of four small businesses 
took place.This continues the process of active portfolio
management, which since the start of the process in 2003
has resulted in the closure of five businesses, the sale of 
sixteen businesses and the acquisition of five businesses.
The strategic review process announced with the interim
results is now complete. Since the announcement in late
November of the launch of the review, extensive analysis
and market testing have been undertaken by the Company
and advisers.The Board has concluded that the strategic
direction that is likely to create the most value for our
shareholders is a progressive focus of the Group’s activities
around the Lifting Products and Services and Energy
T echnology businesses which will have a better growth
profile than the current Group as a whole, reduce
complexity and secure access to sufficient and flexible
financing to support business developments.
The process of separating Hardware and FKI Logistex 
from the rest of the Group will be carried out as quickly 
as possible, but may take up to eighteen to twenty-four
months.The balance between time and value will be
carefully managed in the best interests of shareholders.
Y our Board looks forward to further operating performance
improvement and driving the next stage of the strategic
plan. Demand in the energy and extractive industries 
looks set to continue at high levels.The US housing market
continues to weaken and, despite market share gains by the
businesses, may play a part in dictating more favourable
timing for disposing of the Hardware business.
During the process of the strategic review the Company
responded to expressions of interest for the potential
acquisition of the Group. Due diligence access was
provided to a small number of parties with active
discussions continuing with one. In the light of this 
process and the significant rise in the share price on
31 May 2007, FKI announced that it had been approached
in relation to an offer for the Company at around 130p
per ordinary share.The Board reiterates that there can be
no certainty that any offer will be made for the Company
or the terms on which such offer will be made.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees
for their efforts and contribution over the last year.
Gordon Page Chairman 04 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Operating and financial review:
Chief Executive’s introduction
The year was one of mixed fortunes for the Group.
Stronger than anticipated demand from the oil and gas
and mining sectors was reflected in excellent growth in
turnover and profits in the Lifting Products and Services
and Energy Technology groups. Increased volumes and
efficiencies continued to feed through to margins,
with second half improvements in Energy Technology
very encouraging for future performance.As previously
indicated, FKI Logistex reduced activity levels in the 
US airports sector and total turnover was down slightly 
on the previous year, with profits little changed. Overall
performance improved slightly, but was impacted by the
completion costs of a number of legacy projects.As also
anticipated, the Hardware group’s performance reduced
significantly as a result of a dramatic decline in demand
for window hardware for US housing and was further
impacted by the time lag between zinc input cost
increases and their effective recovery in selling prices.
Encouragingly, the market positions of all of the major
businesses continued to improve during the period as a
result of increased customer focus, investment in products
and services, operating efficiencies and the successful
integration of acquisitions.
The financial results of the Group were, once again,
significantly impacted by the translation of the US$.
The average US$ exchange rate for the year was 
$1.91 compared to $1.78 in 2005/6.The overall effect 
of currency translation reduced reported turnover from
continuing activities and operating profit before special
items in 2006/7 by £47.5 million and £4.7 million
respectively, compared to the prior year.
Overall, in constant currency terms the Group returned
continuing business turnover growth of £105 million
(8.2%), a combination of £129 million (19.3%) increase 
in Lifting Products and Services and Energy Technology,
offset by the reductions in Hardware and FKI Logistex.
Group operating profits before special items for
continuing businesses grew slightly to £100.6 million.
Adjusting for the impact of currency translation, operating
profits before special items improved by 5.3%.
The growth of order books and turnover in the Group’s
heavy engineering activities increased levels of working
capital during the year, contributing to the year end
closing net debt at £329.9 million being higher than 
last year by £25.2 million.A replacement for the Group’s
revolving credit facility of £150 million, which matures 
in July, has been agreed post the year end at a reduced
level of £120 million. The new facility provides funding
for working capital fluctuations throughout the year and,
whilst marginally more expensive, gives improved
covenant headroom.
As planned last year, the Group has transferred surplus
properties to the value of £12.5 million to the UK
Pension Scheme during the year. Further transfers 
of £8.0 million are planned for 2007/8, with one 
US property identified for transfer already sold for 
$10.5 million.The cash will be transferred to the fund
when received. During the year the triennial valuation 
was completed and ongoing funding arrangements,
equivalent to those of the past three years, agreed with 
the Trustees.At the year end the deficit on the Group’s
main UK defined benefit scheme reduced from 
£110.7 million last year to £72.0 million.
Changes to the Group’s business portfolio were much
reduced compared to the prior year and consisted of the
acquisition of Harrington Generators for £6.2 million
and the disposals of the final Certex operation in Italy and
the Group’s chain making operations in the UK and US.
The Group continues to focus on active portfolio
management and a number of opportunities for
acquisition and disposal are being evaluated. 05 FKI plc Operating and financial review
The Board has considered the output from the review 
and has concluded that the Company should move 
to concentrate upon the energy sector activities of 
Lifting Products and Services and Energy Technology.
The improved focus and financial flexibility provided 
by this strategy will enable a clearer understanding 
of the Company and provide the support for future
organic and acquisitive growth.
As a consequence, the Group is moving forward
progressively with plans to separate its FKI Logistex 
and Hardware activities.The objective is to secure a new
environment for these businesses which will support their
growth aspirations whilst providing funds to restructure
the Group’s financing arrangements. During this period 
of realignment the Board is fully committed to proactively
supporting all of the Group’s activities and customers.
As part of the process of separating the Hardware and
Logistex businesses, replacement financing for the current
debt portfolio, including the a600 million Eurobond will
be required at the appropriate time.These considerations,
together with the sentiment towards the US housing
sector, will be the key determinants of the sequence 
and timing of the planned realignment. Decisions 
on individual transactions will be taken as and when
appropriate.The target is to complete the programme 
as soon as possible, always with the intent of maximising
value for the shareholder, and accordingly we envisage 
it may take up to eighteen to twenty-four months.
Proposals for a more appropriate Group financing
structure are well advanced and market testing of the
potential values for the Hardware businesses are ongoing.
The Board believes a viable option for FKI Logistex 
is a demerger, as a listed company, from FKI. Initial
preparations for this scenario have already commenced
whilst other options are still under consideration.
“Encouragingly, the
market positions of all 
of the major businesses
continued to improve
during the period”
Paul Heiden Chief Executive
Paul Heiden Chief Executive
The key metric for the Group continues to be Return 
on Invested Capital (ROIC) which reduced from 8.4% 
to 7.8% with the disposal last year of Bristol Babcock,
currency translation and increased pension interest costs
being the principal drivers.
Strategy
At the time of the interim results the Board announced 
a strategic review of the Group’s activities.This was to
address what has become an increasingly restrictive
financing structure and the Company’s valuation, in the
Board’s opinion, not reflecting the progress of the Group.
Since that time, considerable work has been completed by
the Executive and advisers to analyse, explore and market
test the options available to the Group to maximise
shareholder value. 06 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Operating and financial review:
Lifting Products and Services
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 
2007 2006
£m £m
Turnover 434.2 393.3
Operating profit before special items 57.7 45.0
Net operating assets excluding 
allocated goodwill 146.8 155.3
The Lifting Products and Services group continued 
to respond well to favourable market conditions.
Turnover increased by £40.9 million (10.4%) to 
£434.2 million (2006: £393.3 million) as a result of
£57.5 million improvement (14.6% increase) in trading,
offset by an unfavourable £16.6 million currency
translation effect. Operating profit before special items 
rose to £57.7 million (2006: £45.0 million) as a result 
of higher throughput and manufacturing productivity.
This result was impacted by an unfavourable currency
translation effect of £2.8 million.
The group continued to benefit from its exposure to
increasing demand from extractive industries, particularly
in its Bridon and Crosby operations where over 
50% of revenues are generated through the energy 
and mining markets. Market demand continued to be 
driven by increased requirements for heavy lifting in 
oil and gas exploration and production activity around 
the world, particularly in Canada and the US.The group
also increased its presence in rapidly industrialising 
Far Eastern markets in the year, especially China where
Bridon Tianjin Rope’s output continues to increase 
and Crosby secured new distribution agreements.
Global oil production Million barrels per day*
* OPEC (conventional), Non-OPEC (conventional) and unconventional
Source: EIA, International Energy Outlook (2006)
Worldwide rig count
Source: Baker Hughes Inc
2020
2015
2010
2005
2004
1990
0 20 120 40 60 80 100
Projections p
0 500 3500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998 07 FKI plc Operating and financial review
To satisfy increasing demand, major improvements in
manufacturing performance have been achieved which,
supported by lean manufacturing initiatives, have
significantly raised output. In some product lines demand
continues to exceed supply and lead times are longer than
normal. Progress is being made in this area but further
improvements in product availability are required to meet
customer expectations.As part of this activity and in line
with long-term growth trends, additional investment 
in capital capacity has been approved for installation 
in the coming year.This expenditure of c £10 million
will not only increase output capability but also 
improve productivity.
The group continued to invest significant resource in
product and process development initiatives in the year,
introducing a new 150 ton drilling block to complement
Crosby’s existing range of 250 and 350 ton blocks.
Crosby also launched a quick-check tagging and
identification system for chain slings, which has been well
received by customers.This system combines an electronic
inspection programme with RFID technology and 
offers significant financial savings in the required annual
inspection of products in the field. Bridon continued to
develop higher strength ropes with increased breaking
loads for applications in a number of energy and industrial
sectors.Work also continues on higher strength mooring
systems, both wire and synthetic rope, for offshore
applications, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico.
Sustained high scrap paper and steel prices continued 
to drive strong order intake and sales at Harris, the 
group’s manufacturer of scrap compaction, shearing 
and shredder equipment. Sales and operating profit were
8.1% and 17.1% ahead of the previous record year with
the closing order book equivalent to approximately 
five months of sales.
The group completed the integration of three recent
acquisitions – IP Clamps,Tianjin and Marlow Ropes.
They continue to perform ahead of expectations and 
the group is benefiting from the further synergies that
have been identified post the acquisitions. In particular,
Marlow’s synthetic rope technology will become
increasingly important as oil and gas exploration moves 
to deeper waters.The group continues to look for further
strategic acquisitions to expand product range and
geographical coverage and take full advantage of the
group’s considerable Intellectual Property.
During the first half of the year the group completed the
disposal of its Certex Italy operations. Sales and operating
losses, which are accounted for as discontinued operations,
were £3.0 million (2006: £8.9 million) and £0.4 million
loss (2006: £1.9 million) respectively. In addition, the
group exited its chain making operations in the UK 
and US. Sales of £5.0 million and operating losses of
£0.3 million in respect of these activities are included 
in continuing operations.
The Lifting Products and Services group
continued to respond well to favourable
market conditions. T urnover increased 
by £40.9 million (10.4%) to £434.2 million
(2006: £393.3 million). 08 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Operating and financial review:
Energy T echnology
World net electricity consumption Billion kilowatt-hours
Source: EIA, International Energy Outlook (2006)
Worldwide electricity generation Billion Kilowatt-hours
Source: Baker Hughes Inc
2003     2030
2030
2025
2020
2015
2010
2003
0 5,000 35,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000
Projections p
Coal
Gas
Oil
Nuclear
Renewables
0 2000 14000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 
2007 2006
£m £m
Turnover 344.4 275.0
Operating profit before special items 24.2 21.5
Net operating assets excluding 
allocated goodwill 155.8 141.5
A strong opening order book plus significantly improved
order intake levels resulted in turnover growth of 25.2%
to £344.4 million (2006: £275.0 million). Orders taken
in the year totalled £428.5 million, a rise of 50% over the
previous year, giving a closing order book also 50% above
last year at £264.0 million, of which 84% is tradable in
the coming year.
Operating profit before special items was £24.2 million
(2006: £21.5 million). Performance in the year was,
unusually, very second half weighted with the first half
impacted by high copper prices, product development
costs at Brush and operating difficulties at Switchgear.
Operating profit before special items in the second 
half was £17.6 million (2006: £11.4 million), an increase
of 54%.
Demand in the FKI Generators business continues to be
driven by the ongoing recovery in the global market for
power generation equipment and strong order intake from
the oil and gas sector.As announced at the interim results,
Brush Turbogenerators has secured initial orders under a
multi-year agreement for a new range of turbogenerators
for an existing customer.At the year end orders worth
£19.1 million had been received, with turnover for this
product expected to grow to c £40 million per annum
over the next three years. 09 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Sales growth in the smaller sized generator activities of
Marelli Motori was also strong at 24%.The business is
becoming increasingly focused on specialist applications
such as flameproof motors and hydro generators.
Volatile copper prices have a significant impact on 
this relatively short lead time business, and operating
performance improved with the more stable pricing
environment in the second half of the year.
Harrington Generators, which the group acquired 
for £6.2 million in April 2006, has performed well.
Harrington is a leading designer and supplier of specialist
generators. During the year the business secured a major
contract with Airwave worth £5 million over two years
for original equipment and an additional £3 million 
over seven years for service and maintenance.
The group’s Switchgear business encountered operating
difficulties in the year as a result of a programme to
outsource low value-added fabrication and associated
activities.This activity, together with increased demand,
exposed weaknesses within the supply chain which 
led to significant inefficiencies. Focused remedial 
actions have materially improved performance in the 
second half of the year and further steps are planned.
Importantly, order intake levels have remained strong,
a positive sign for the coming year.
The group’s specialist Traction refurbishment business 
won two major contracts worth approximately 
£64 million to be delivered over the next two years.
Initial deliveries commenced in the second half 
of the year.
Orders taken in the year totalled
£428.5 million, a rise of 50% over 
the previous year , giving a closing
order book also 50% above last 
year at £264.0 million, of which 
84% is tradable in the coming year . 10 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 
2007 2006
£m £m
Turnover 372.6 403.5
Operating profit before special items 14.2 14.6
Net operating assets excluding 
allocated goodwill 55.2 43.0
The turnover in FKI Logistex was £372.6 million (2006:
£403.5 million), the reduction comprises a £13.9 million
trading decrease and a £17.0 million adverse exchange
translation impact. Operating profit before special items 
at £14.2 million (2006: £14.6 million) was slightly 
below the previous year but was negatively impacted 
by £0.8 million of exchange translation.
The improved business processes, including tendering,
risk and project management, being embedded within 
the business, together with the recruitment of specialist
competencies required to support the organisation,
have been reflected in improved project delivery on the
majority of contracts. However, operating performance
continued to be adversely impacted by a number of 
long-running legacy airport and parcel projects, which
were contracted more than three years ago prior to 
recent improvements.The majority of these projects 
were substantially completed in the year with a total 
negative impact on operating profit of c £5 million.
Overall, constant currency operating margins improved
slightly from 3.6% to 3.85%.
Order intake remained robust at £366.8 million (2006:
£394.9 million), down 8% on the comparable period 
last year at constant exchange rates.The order book at 
31 March stood at £210.8 million (2006: £230.0 million) 
of which 86% is tradable in the coming year.
Operating and financial review:
FKI Logistex
Domestic post and parcel volumes Billions
Source: Data extracted from the Universal Postal Union
2005
1 6 0 2345
2004
2003
2002
2001 11 FKI plc Operating and financial review
The North American operations of FKI Logistex
generated c 60% of total turnover and reflected strong
growth in the Warehouse and Distribution sector where
order intake was up 16% against the previous year.
Major order wins came from North American retailers
including Payless, Shoe Source,The Limited, Zappos 
and Canadian Tire.
Manufacturing Systems also had a strong period including
its first order from Sysco, a leading distributor of food 
and related products and services, and further orders 
from Target Stores and Preferred Freezers.
The group’s North American Airport activity was scaled
back, consistent with the decision to be more selective
following the deterioration in market conditions.
Post & Parcel activity was subdued overall following 
a very strong prior year but the company’s Linear Belt
Sorter was selected by the United States Postal Service 
as part of a new postal sorting solution, which is planned
for a progressive nationwide roll-out.
During the period a comprehensive rationalisation of 
the group’s facilities in North America was completed,
which reduced occupied space by 30% and should 
lower overheads by £2 million annually.
The FKI Logistex European organisation covers sales to
the rest of the world and constitutes c 40% of turnover.
Against the backdrop of securing two major projects 
in the prior year, order intake for the Warehouse and
Distribution sector reduced as anticipated, although a
notable success was the securing of a contract for an
automated archival storage facility for the British Library.
The year also saw the successful completion of the 
group’s first project for Wolseley plc for its new National
Distribution Centre in Leamington Spa.This turnkey
project was the first for the group that included the
warehouse construction in addition to the materials
handling solution.
New Airport tendering and order activity in Europe 
was relatively subdued during the year with few contract 
bids as the business focused on smaller extension projects
such as those won at Copenhagen and Johannesburg.
Progress on existing contracts is in line with expectations.
Post & Parcel activity in Europe remained active with 
a number of notable project wins in Europe, including
sortation and distribution centres/hubs for the British
Forces Post Office, DHL Dublin and Chronpost France.
Post & Parcel also gained two major project wins in the
DHL Hong Kong and FedEx Guangzhou express mail
hubs. During the year, the group continued to grow its
operational presence in China through the expansion 
of its Shanghai office in support of the recent contract
wins and its ongoing China development strategy.
FKI Logistex improved its focus on core products and
technologies as a means of strategic differentiation and
reorganised product and technology development activities
under a new central planning and management structure.
A new standard palletiser range was launched, which will
allow the group to service more effectively the global
market demands in solutions requiring lower palletisation
speeds than those typically seen in North America.
Other products in the development cycle include a 
new global case conveyor product line and upgraded 
loop sorter products.
During the period a comprehensive
rationalisation of the group’ s facilities 
in North America was completed,
which reduced occupied space by
30% and should lower overheads 
by £2 million annually . 12 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Operating and financial review:
Hardware
US home improvement spending $Billions
Source: Home improvement Research Institute
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
0 50
Projections p
400 100 150 200 250 300 350
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 
2007 2006
£m £m
Turnover 179.7 201.6
Operating profit before special items 16.7 27.8
Net operating assets excluding 
allocated goodwill 65.9 70.7
Turnover for the Hardware group declined by 10.9% 
to £179.7 million (2006: £201.6 million) with 
£11.9 million of the reduction due to adverse foreign
exchange translation. Operating profit before special items
reduced to £16.7 million (2006: £27.8 million) reflecting
a reduction of c 6% in sales volumes, the impact of
significant input price increases and £1.2 million 
of adverse foreign exchange translation.
The basic raw material for decorative and window
hardware is zinc. During the period the rapid rise and
volatility of this raw material input cost had a significant
impact on operating profit as a result of the time lag
between incurring input cost rises and passing on sales
price increases to customers. Zinc cost surcharges, selling
price increases and material substitutes will progressively
recover a substantial proportion of the cost increases.
The US housing market generates c 70% of the Truth
window hardware company sales.After a relatively flat 
first half of the year, the second half saw the anticipated
dramatic fall off in demand as the level of US new
housing starts declined rapidly. Official figures indicate 
that starts in calendar year 2006 were down 15%
compared to the prior year, with independent market
forecasts indicating a further reduction of between 6% 
and 10% in calendar year 2007.The balance of Truth’s
sales go to the Canadian housing market which remained
relatively stable during the period. Steps have been and 
are being taken to reduce costs, as far as possible, in line
with the volume reductions. 13 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Encouragingly, the impact of this market reduction 
was partially offset by excellent success in securing 
new customers, renewing longstanding accounts and
introducing new products. One particular market initiative
is designed to grow significantly:Truth’s currently small
presence in the patio door market. New product designs
have been introduced for patio door locking systems 
and a range of patio door handles.
At Hickory, the major reorganisation to consolidate 
five businesses into one, with the associated reduction 
in occupied space of one million square feet and full 
year overheads of £3 million, was largely completed.
The new office and distribution centre at Nashville,
Tennessee is operational with the last of the satellite
warehouse facilities scheduled for closure in July 2007.
The consolidation of staff and the improved distribution
process will also bring operating efficiencies.
The launch of the Hickory brand and the design, source,
supply business model continue to be well received by the
market.After a number of years of significant sales decline
in the decorative hardware businesses, performance in the
year was much improved with constant currency sales
declining by only 5%.
The group has commenced work on the significant new
programme it won in the year with a major DIY chain
and extended and expanded an existing programme 
with another customer.As a result of these and other 
new business wins the Hickory sales force was increased,
distribution channels strengthened and marketing and
merchandising spend targeted to support future sales
growth. Improvements to supply chain logistics has
resulted in improved customer delivery performance.
Encouragingly, the impact of this
market reduction was partially 
offset by excellent success in
securing new customers, 
renewing longstanding accounts
and introducing new products.  14 FKI plc Operating and financial review
The Group enters the new financial year in a strong
position to capitalise on solid demand in the energy
sector. However, as in previous years, reported
performance will be impacted by currency translation of
overseas activities and the rising interest rate environment.
Further top line and margin growth is expected in Lifting
Products and Services. Customer demand is expected 
to continue to grow but at rates below those of the past
two years, whilst capital investments and lean
improvements should benefit margin performance.
As growth in this sector slows, the pressure on working
capital should reduce.
Very strong order books in the Energy Technology group
provide excellent visibility of likely performance in the
coming year. Sales growth should improve compared 
to last year with margin performance above that seen 
in the second half of 2006/7.The recovery in trading 
of Switchgear is expected to continue, contributing to
enhanced performance.
In FKI Logistex, the strong North American market for
Warehouse and Distribution and Manufacturing Systems
is expected to continue its recent positive momentum.
The global Post and Parcel market is set to remain active
with increasing demand in the Far East for express parcel
services.The Airport sector is expected to continue to
provide good volume opportunities but the Group will
continue to be selective regarding projects tendered.
Turnover is expected to show modest growth with margin
performance regaining momentum as a result of cost
savings and improved overall project performance.
Market developments are more difficult to predict in 
the Hardware group. US housing starts are a key factor;
further falls of c 9% are expected in 2007 with the impact
on sales volumes forecast to be partially offset by secured
market share growth. Underlying demand for decorative
hardware products is expected to be relatively stable.
At the operating profit level the recovery of zinc cost
increases through pricing, and cost savings, through the
reorganisation of Hickory and productivity at Truth,
should benefit group performance.
Net finance charges are expected to increase by 
c £4.5 million as a result of rising underlying interest rates
and the arrangement fees and higher ongoing costs of the
replacement revolving credit facility. Head office costs and
special items should remain at levels similar to last year.
Overall, the Group is well positioned to improve
performance in all groups in the coming year.At the same
time, the Group will continue to look to actively manage
the business portfolio in line with its strategy.
Operating and financial review:
Outlook 15 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Operating and financial review:
Financial review
Overview
Group turnover from continuing activities during the
period was £1,330.9 million (2006: £1,273.4 million).
This increase in turnover comprised a sales increase 
from trading of £105.0 million offset by an unfavourable
currency translation effect of £47.5 million.
Operating profit before special items increased to 
£100.6 million (2006: £100.0 million).After adjusting 
for the unfavourable foreign exchange impact of 
£4.7 million, operating profit before special items 
grew by 5.3%. Full year central costs rose in line with
expectations to £12.2 million, £3.3 million higher 
than last year which benefited from a number of 
one-off credit adjustments.
Special items amounting to a loss of £9.5 million 
(2006: loss of £0.4 million) included a charge of 
£12.0 million relating to the closure and rationalisation 
of certain continuing operations within FKI Logistex
(£6.2 million) and Hardware (£5.8 million). In addition,
a pre-tax loss of £2.7 million on the sale of a number 
of small operations has been incurred, principally as a
consequence of the Group’s decision to exit its chain
making activities in the UK and North America.
These losses have been offset by a £5.2 million profit
before taxation on the sale of a number of surplus
property assets.
Net finance costs were £26.0 million (2006:
£29.4 million).The decrease over the corresponding
period last year is principally a result of reduced average
net debt levels following the sale of Bristol Babcock 
in 2006. In addition, there has been an increase of 
£4.7 million on fair value gains on financial instruments,
partially offset by an increase of £2.4 million in net
finance costs on pension schemes.
For comparative purposes underlying operating profit,
based on operating profit before special items after
adjusting for the pre-tax trading impact of discontinued
operations, fell by 7.2% from £108.0 million to 
£100.2 million.
Impact of exchange rates
With 71% of FKI’s continuing turnover originating 
from outside the UK, the Group’s results are sensitive to
changes in exchange rates.Trading results and cash flow 
of overseas operations have been converted into Sterling 
at average rates of exchange whilst balance sheets are
converted at year end rates.
The most significant rates for the Group were as follows:
2007 2006
At Average At Average
31 March rates of 31 March rates of
2007 exchange 2006 exchange
to £1 to £1 to £1 to £1
US Dollar 1.96 1.91 1.73 1.78
Canadian Dollar 2.26 2.16 2.02 2.11
Euro 1.47 1.48 1.43 1.46
Danish Krone 10.98 11.04 10.70 10.91
The average exchange rate of the US Dollar to Sterling
weakened by 7.3% compared with last year which
primarily affected the Hardware division, FKI Logistex
and Lifting Products and Services whose US operations
are particularly successful and have a significant exposure
to energy markets. 16 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Underlying
operating
Turnover profit
decrease decrease
Currency effect on results £m £m
Lifting Products and Services 16.6 2.8
Energy T echnology 2.0 0.1
FKI Logistex 17.0 0.8
Hardware 11.91.2
Discontinued – –
Head Office – (0.2)
47.5 4.7
Interest
The Group’s net finance cost decreased to £26.0 million
(2006: £29.4 million) as a result of reduced average debt
levels in the year and favourable currency translation
effects, despite the adverse impact of higher interest rates
on the Group’s floating rate debt.These net finance costs
primarily consist of £27.2 million (2006: £29.1 million)
of net interest costs arising on the Group’s net debt.
The remaining income of £1.2 million (2006:
£0.3 million cost) consists of net pension scheme 
interest of £3.6 million (2006: £1.2 million) and other
financing cost gains of £4.8 million (2006: £0.9 million)
being mainly fair value gains on financial instruments and
net foreign exchange losses.
On an IFRS basis consistent with the Group’s new loan
covenants, the net interest expense was 4.7 times covered
(2006: 4.5 times) by profit before interest, special items,
depreciation and amortisation, and represented a rate of
6.1% (2006: 6.1%) on the year’s average weekly net debt
of £426.0 million (2006: £480.9 million).
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax charge on profits from
continuing operations before special items after net
finance costs was 24.8% (2006: 25.2%).A reconciliation 
of the actual total tax charge to the standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK of 30% is set out in note 13 
to the financial statements.
Return on invested capital
The return on Invested Capital, rebased for the
introduction of International Financial Reporting
Standards and calculated as profit after tax from continuing
and discontinued operations before exceptional items,
interest and finance charges, divided by the average of
opening and closing shareholders’ equity, net debt and
previously written off goodwill, declined to 7.8% 
(2006: 8.4%) with the disposal last year of Bristol
Babcock, currency translation and increased pension
interest costs being the principal drivers.
Earnings per share and dividends
The profit attributable to the equity holders of the
Company amounted to £46.4 million (2006:
£93.8 million), and basic earnings per share was 7.9p 
(2006: 16.1p).Adjusted earnings per share of 8.7p 
(2006: 9.7p) is calculated by dividing the operating
profit/(loss) for the period, before special items,
profit/loss on disposal of discontinued operations, fair
value gains/losses on financial instruments and exchange
gains/losses included within net finance costs and income
and taxation related to those items by the weighted
average number of shares in issue during the period.
Reflecting the Group’s underlying performance, the Board
has proposed to pay a final dividend for the year of 3.0p
per share which, with the interim dividend of 1.5p per
share paid on 23 February 2007, brings the total dividends
for the year to 4.5p per share, the same level as last year.
The total paid out to shareholders in respect of these
dividends will amount to £26.4 million. 17 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Net debt and cash flow
Reported net debt at 31 March 2007 was £329.9 million,
an increase since 31 March 2006 of £25.2 million.
The increase was driven primarily by the growing activity
levels and the phasing of the closing order book in the
relatively more capital intensive Lifting Products and
Services and Energy Technology groups, offset by a 
£32.8 million favourable movement in the translation 
of, primarily, US$ denominated net debt.
Net operating cash outflow in the year after interest 
and taxation payments was £14.1 million (2006:
£69.3 million inflow).
Capital expenditure was £34.3 million representing 
132% of depreciation and amortisation charges.There was
a cash outflow of £6.9 million relating to termination and
closure costs of businesses.
Financing
At 31 March 2007 the Group was financed by a mix 
of equity, retained earnings, a Eurobond, US private
placement loan notes and a syndicated bank facility.
Funding for operating subsidiaries, apart from small local
overdraft facilities, is raised centrally and lent internally 
on commercial terms.
Gross debt, excluding derivative financial assets and
liabilities, at the year end amounted to £485.9 million 
and 78% of the Group’s committed borrowing facilities of
£616.9 million were drawn.These committed borrowing
facilities are available for 2.8 years on average.
The Group’s net debt, which in 2006 included 
£1.4 million in respect of businesses classified as 
held for sale, comprised the following:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£ million £ million
Eurobond 417.2 442.2
US Private Placements 49.7 100.0
Revolving credit facility 12.7 0
Lease financing 3.9 4.9
Other loans and overdrafts 2.4 3.5
Derivative financial liabilities 21.1 19.3
Gross borrowings 507.0 569.9
Cash and short-term deposits (125.5) (237.1)
Derivative financial assets (51.6) (28.1)
Net debt 329.9 304.7
The a600 million Eurobond, which matures in February
2010, is carried at a value of £417.2 million (2006:
£442.2 million).The decrease in carrying value of 
the Eurobond is due to a weaker Euro, a fair value
adjustment to match a corresponding liability arising 
on the Eurobond’s fair value hedges, and the continued
amortisation of a credit attributable to closing out 
interest rate swaps in 2003.
US$97.5 million is drawn under a series of US private
placements issued in 1996 and 1997 with maturities
ranging between 2007 and 2016. During the year 
surplus cash was applied to redeeming US$76 million 
of US private placements that matured.At the year
end £12.7 million (2006: £nil) was drawn under the 
£150 million revolving credit facility, which had a
scheduled maturity of 26 July 2007. 18 FKI plc Operating and financial review
On 5 June 2007 the Company entered into a
commitment with a number of relationship banks 
to provide a £120 million revolving credit facility in
replacement of the existing £150 million revolving 
credit facility that matures on 26 July 2007.This new
£120 million facility, which runs until 1 April 2009,
will provide working capital funding during a phase 
when the Company’s operational performance is expected
to benefit from strengthening end-markets and further
strategic realignment of the portfolio. It is expected that
this will lead to improved financial metrics allowing the
Company to subsequently refinance its maturing debt
obligations in a cost-effective manner.
The terms and conditions under the new £120 million
facility are very similar to the previous facility, but with
some additional headroom under the financial covenants.
The fixed rate Eurobond and US private placements are
substantially swapped into floating rate obligations and
other currencies.These swaps maintain approximately
80% of gross borrowings at floating rates and 20% at 
fixed rates.The cross-currency swaps provide a partial
hedge of the foreign exchange exposures described 
below under Financial risk management. Floating rate
borrowings are principally linked to LIBOR for periods
of between one and six months.
Y ear end cash and marketable securities and deposits
totalled £125.5 million (2006: £237.1 million).
£32.8 million (2006: £41.1 million) of cash, marketable
securities and deposits are held and managed by the
Group’s captive insurance company in Guernsey.
Derivative financial instruments comprise instruments
relating to net borrowings (eg cross-currency and interest
rate swaps) and those related to other business transactions
(eg forward foreign exchange deals and copper
commodity swaps).
The weaker US Dollar exchange rate gave rise to an
increase in the value of the cross-currency swaps reported
within derivative financial assets of £51.6 million.
This figure included £45.5 million attributable to the
foreign exchange element of the US Dollar cross-currency
swaps that are classified as net investment hedges.
Financial risk management
FKI’s financial risk management is based upon sound
economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used to
manage trading exposures, liabilities and assets under
parameters laid down by the Board.The Group’s major
hedging activities are to mitigate the following risks:
(i) Currency transaction risks for trading exposures
denominated in other currencies.
(ii) Fair value and cash flow interest rate risks associated
with the Eurobond.
(iii) Currency translation risks of net assets in overseas
subsidiaries.
The Group has not used derivative financial instruments
for purposes other than for hedging its exposures.
The Group adopted accounting standard IAS 39 on 
1 April 2005, resulting in the recognition at fair value 
of all derivative financial instruments previously held 
off balance sheet under UK GAAP .To avoid income
statement volatility, and where such benefits outweigh 
the costs of compliance, the Group has designated many
of its economic hedges as hedging instruments under 
IAS 39. However, for certain effective economic hedging
relationships such hedge accounting treatment is not
permitted under IFRS.Where hedge accounting is not
achieved, fair value movements on derivatives are recorded
in the consolidated income statement which could give
rise to earnings volatility. 19 FKI plc Operating and financial review
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a range of maturity
dates for its borrowings, and to refinance them at the
appropriate time so as to reduce refinancing risk.
The treasury function provides the Group with cash and
risk management services by investing surplus funds and
managing and reducing financial risks purely in relation 
to underlying trading transactions. It does not operate as a
profit centre and no speculative transactions are permitted.
Counterparty credit limits are established for all banks
used by the Group, taking account of the credit standing
of each bank.The Group does not hold or issue derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes.
A large proportion of the Group’s trading is carried 
out within the domestic territory of each business unit.
Consequently, foreign exchange transaction exposures,
which arise when sales and purchases are made by a
business unit in a currency other than its own functional
currency, are generally not significant.The Group’s policy
is to hedge forward foreign exchange contracts as soon as
commitment has been given to the underlying transaction.
The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into
Sterling at the average rates of exchange for the period
concerned.As this conversion has no impact on the cash
flow of the Group, the Group chooses not to hedge its
foreign subsidiaries’ earnings, other than any dividends
which are dealt with as transaction exposures.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated
into Sterling at the closing exchange rates.Any gains 
or losses on the translation of these balance sheets into
Sterling are recorded in reserves against the gains and
losses arising on foreign currency borrowings that are
effective as net investment hedges.
Pensions
The Group’s IAS 19 aggregate pensions deficit in respect
of all pension and post retirement plans decreased to
£108.8 million as of 31 March 2007 from £156.0 million
a year earlier.The most significant element of this deficit
relates to the Group’s main UK scheme which has
decreased from £110.7 million to £72.0 million as 
of 31 March 2007.The valuation of this deficit is based 
on the full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2005,
updated at 31 March 2007 by independent actuaries.
The Group aggregate deficit net of associated deferred tax
assets has reduced from £107.5 million to £75.4 million.
During the year surplus property assets worth 
£12.5 million were transferred to the main UK pension
scheme with a further £8.0 million planned for transfer 
in 2007/8.An agreement was also reached with scheme
trustees for the continuation of existing funding levels. 20 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Risks and uncertainties
The Group has adopted a standard process for the
identification, assessment, treatment, monitoring and
reporting of risk.This process helps support business
objectives by linking into business strategy, identifying and
reacting to emerging risks and developing cost effective
solutions to risk exposures.A detailed description of the
Group’s risk management process is included within the
Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 36 of the
Annual Report.The Group’s financial risk management
practices are discussed earlier in the report on pages 18
and 19 and in note 28 to the accounts.
Some 51% of continuing sales are to customers in 
North America and the Group is therefore particularly
affected by economic conditions in North America.
However, the diverse nature of the Group’s products,
services and customers help mitigate the effects of changes
in political and economic risk on the demand that the
Group experiences.
The Group’s products and manufacturing processes
require a variety of raw materials including steel, copper
and zinc.Any increase or volatility in the price of these
commodities and energy together with shortages in supply
can affect the Group’s performance.The diversity of
operations both in terms of product area and geography
reduces the dependence on any single item and supplier.
Purchasing policies and practices take into account and
seek to mitigate such risks where practicable.
The Group operates a number of pension schemes as
detailed in note 33 to the accounts, the most significant of
which is the main UK scheme which had a pre-tax deficit
of £72.0 million at 31 March 2007.The funding of that
scheme is 65% by long dated bonds and 35% by equities.
The Group is exposed to various funding risks principally
increased longevity of members and poor performance 
of equity investments which could result in increased cash
contributions by the Group to the schemes.
In addition to the above the Group’s involvement and
operating in global markets creates an exposure to other
risk factors that are both external and internal to the
Group.These risks include but are not limited to failure 
to comply with legislative and regulatory requirements
including environmental and litigation risk, equipment
failures, business continuity and the actions of customers
and competitors.The Group has, as previously described,
implemented risk controls and loss mitigation plans but
cannot give absolute assurance that such procedures will
be effective in identifying or controlling each of the
operational risks faced by the Group.
Neil Bamford Finance Director
NB: The Business Review and Finance Review comprise 
the Group’s compliance with s243ZZB of the Companies Act. 
It is not intended to comply with all the requirements of RS1 
as issued by the Accounting Standards Board. 21 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
FKI defines corporate social responsibility (CSR) as 
the effective management of the impact its businesses 
have on its employees, partners, customers, shareholders,
the environment and both the local and international
community.As such, FKI firmly believes that good 
CSR practice is not only desirable but makes good
business sense.
The Group strives to maintain its status as a responsible
corporate citizen through continuous improvement in all
areas of CSR. FKI’s commitment to CSR is demonstrated
through its listing on the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index
for the fourth year running. It also maintains less formal
relationships with other CSR linked bodies including
Business in the Community (BITC), SAM Indexes 
GmbH (compilers of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index),
EIRIS (Ethical Investment Research Service) and the
Carbon T rust.
FKI’s continuing progress in CSR demonstrates it 
is a Group that:
• Has a clear strategy and defined performance targets
• Continually seeks out better methods of operation
• Strives to improve service to customers by developing
innovative products, systems and solutions
• Displays the highest standards of trust and integrity
• Strives towards sustainability
Individual businesses include CSR issues as part of their
routine risk management which forms part of the Group’s
established, structured approach to risk management.
The importance of CSR is recognised at the highest 
level. Responsibility for the Group’s CSR policies,
implementation and monitoring rests with the Chief
Executive and is coordinated by the Director of Group
Human Resources.This responsibility is delegated to 
the President or Managing Director of each Business.
CSR objectives are ultimately met by the collective 
efforts of all Company employees worldwide.
Each year, as part of the annual reporting process, the
Group reviews the performance of each of its businesses
in what FKI considers to be the three key areas of CSR:
• Social and Ethical Policy and Practice
• Health and Safety Policy and Practice
• The Environment
Information compiled from questionnaires sent to 
each business unit allows FKI to monitor performance,
achievement of set targets and individual business unit
contributions to CSR.
This annual report includes a summary of the Group’s
performance with a more comprehensive version of the
annual CSR review available on FKI’s website or from 
the Company Secretary.
!
A full version of the annual CSR
review is available on FKI’s website:
www.fki.co.uk
Corporate social responsibility report:
Introduction 83%
of employees are offered a
personal development review
22 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
FKI recognises that the practice of sound social and
ethical responsibility will deliver competitive advantage
and contribute to the Group’s long-term success.
The greatest contribution that the Group makes in 
this area comes from the wealth created by maintaining
employment, both within the Group and through its
supply network.
Social and ethical policy
The FKI social and ethical policy is applied in all
businesses worldwide and acts as a reference point to
guide employees and other stakeholders on the aspects
that drive the conduct of FKI’s business relationships.
The policy contains detailed provisions covering the
following aspects:
• Standard of conduct to be followed in dealing 
with employees and everyone with whom the 
Group has relationships
• Compliance with the law and applicable regulations
• Sound employment policies, which take account of
labour rights and conventions, include recruitment,
employment, promotion on fair and legal grounds 
and prohibit discrimination
• Commitments to customers, partners and suppliers
• Safeguarding of shareholders’ interests including 
applying good corporate governance and prohibiting
insider dealing
• Utmost integrity in business dealings and absolute
probity in business transactions
• Avoidance of conflicts of interest by employees
• Community involvement and charitable assistance
• Engagement with government and other organisations
to promote and defend FKI’s business interests
• Continuous improvements in managing its
environmental impact
• Full compliance with Health and Safety regulations
• Safeguarding and maximising the use of Group property
• Protection of confidential information
• Communication of policies to appropriate stakeholders
In addition to FKI’s policy, 58% [66%]
1
of business units
operate their own supplementary social and ethical policy,
which covers 91% of employees.These policies are
regularly reviewed and updated and are shaped to meet
the needs of individual businesses.The vast majority of
FKI business units also have an individual member of 
staff who is responsible for social and ethical matters.
The Group’s social and ethical policy states that it
“respects the legal right of employees to membership of
trade unions”: 32% of its workforce is unionised and 45%
are covered by collective agreements. In early 2005, the
Energy Technology European Works Council was set up
to represent European-based businesses within the Energy
T echnology group.The Council held its second annual
meeting in July 2006.The CEO briefed the Council 
on Group Strategy and the role played by each Energy
Technology business in the Group’s success.
As part of social and ethical practice, FKI recognises 
the need to encourage the development of its staff,
with around 76% of business units offering an employee
personal development and review programme, which
covers 83% of the workforce. On average, this year, the
number of training days per employee was five days
boosted by an increasing recommendation of a personal
development and review.
Internal recruitments filled 17% [22%]
1
of the Group’s
vacancies this year.As well as direct recruitment
opportunities, FKI also operates an engineering graduate
recruitment programme, which is fully accredited 
by the relevant professional bodies.This scheme was 
re-accredited by IMECHE in 2007 for the next five 
years. Several businesses also offer comprehensive
apprenticeship programmes.
Corporate social responsibility report:
Social and ethical policy and practice
91 %
of employees covered by
supplementary social and 
ethical policy
1
Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005/06. 23 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
Charity and community
FKI businesses are encouraged to support the local
communities in which they operate. FKI also supports
charitable activities and donations to both local and
international causes through its corporate donations
policy, which includes the potential for funds raised 
by employees for charitable causes to be matched by
donations from their business or Group.
This year 68% [68%]
1
of FKI’s businesses, representing 74%
of employees, participated in local community activities,
charitable events or made charitable donations. A large
number of these businesses supported development of 
the local community, donating time and money to local
charities, schools, hospitals and sports teams etc.
A large percentage of FKI’s US-based businesses 
also support United Way, a charity which includes 
around 1,350 community-based organisations run 
by local volunteers.This support included voluntary
deductions from employee wages and locally organised
fundraising events.
FKI also makes annual contributions to the Headstart
scheme, part of The Engineering Development Trust
which in turn is a component of The Royal Academy 
of Engineering’s Best programme.The Headstart scheme
promotes careers in science and engineering to 16-17 
year olds through university-based, residential courses.
The Group is also becoming more directly involved 
with Headstart through its graduate scheme, providing
volunteer graduates to speak at a number of the residential
courses. FKI embraces opportunities like this to re-invest
in the engineering graduates of the future.
Social and ethical compliance 
This year, there were two [four]
1
complaints made 
against FKI businesses, one of which involved two
individual complaints pending further investigation.
The other allegation is currently active and pending
mediation.There were five [five]
1
cases of disciplinary 
action against employees. One individual case involved
three employees who each received verbal reprimands;
another case involved two employees where verbal and
written reprimands were issued respectively.Two cases are
pending further investigations and the final case resulted in
a dismissal due to a breach of social and ethical policy.
Auditing for compliance
FKI implemented a policy of peer auditing in 2004 to
facilitate accelerated continuous improvement in social
and ethical policy and practice, whereby business units 
are audited by their peers to assess the compliance with
Group policy at operating business level.Three businesses
were audited in 2006/07 and no major non-compliance
issues were identified.All minor non-compliance issues
were resolved within the agreed timescales.
The FKI human resources network
A Group-wide network of people involved in human
resource operations was established during 2004/05.
This network has continued to be active in 2006/07 as a
vehicle for more effective and consistent implementation
of Group policies and continues to uphold FKI’s
commitment to CSR.
1
Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005/06.
“Independent audits ensuring FKI
remains progressive in Health and
Safety policy and practice have been
extended globally”
Bridon America gave monetary
donations to the American Cancer
Society, United Way, and Independent
College Fund. The company also 
has a membership with the local
Chamber of Commerce and the
management is involved on the 
Board of Directors of NEPIRC –
Northeastern Pennsylvania Industrial
Resource Center (NEPIRC). Also, the
management is involved on the Board
of Directors for the County Rail Board,
which promotes use, expansion, 
and improvement of local railroads.
Prince’s Trust Challenge three
graduates with a sponsorship of 
£2,300 each from FKI, took part part in
the Scandinavian three peaks challenge 
in September 2006. The challenge 
was to climb three peaks in Norway,
Sweden and Finland in just four days
which they came first place and raised
over £11,000.
Brush Traction Site Welfare Fund
has donated £500 each to six local
charities in the last year.
Harrington Generators have loaned
generators to several local charity events.
Marelli Motori maintains good
relationship with local schools and 
public administration through social
events. They have increased business
with a local social company that employs
disabled people by outsourcing simple
work such as assemblies. 
Hickory Hardware connected with
United Way of Middle Tennessee 
while moving into its new location 
in Nashville and conducted a pledge
campaign in which the company
matched employee contributions; 
over $5,000 USD in pledges were
received. In the last year, Hickory
began an affiliation with the Nashville
area Habitat for Humanity where door
and cabinet hardware from excess
inventory was donated. Lastly, the
individual locations support local 
blood bank drives. Corporate social responsibility report:
Health and Safety policy and practice
24 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
FKI maintains its commitment to progress towards an
accident-free Health and Safety culture.The diagram
opposite illustrates that Health and Safety commitment
starts at the highest level of management, with a structure
put in place to drive improvement throughout the
Group’s worldwide operations.
FKI is committed to full compliance with Health and
Safety regulations in the workplace for all of its employees
worldwide. Businesses are requested to record all unsafe
acts, near misses and injuries during operations.These 
are then analysed to enable continuous improvement
through shared knowledge, new initiatives and improved
working practices.
Last year a UK Health and Safety audit programme was
launched in conjunction with the Group’s insurance
brokers,AON, which resulted in a number of local
practice changes.This audit programme is now being
rolled out to many Group businesses worldwide.
Independent audits such as this ensure FKI remains
progressive in this area and that Health and Safety systems
are improved and maintained in line with best practice.
The Guardians (FKI Board of Directors)
Strategic control, policy approval, monitoring improvement, 
managing the external interface and providing resources.
The Champions (Group Health, Safety and Environmental Committee)
Operational control, policy development, monitoring performance,
prioritising areas for improvement, integrating best practice and reviewing
for compliance.
The Experts (Health, Safety and Environmental network) 
Ensuring data integrity, data analysis, translating policy into practice,
identifying and sharing best practice, influencing regulatory compliance 
and disseminating new regulations.
The Enforcers (Operational Line Managers)
Communicating and educating, ensuring compliance with local policy 
and practice, investigating incidents/accidents/breaches, eradicating root
causes, enforcing agreed standards and performing risk assessments.
The Agents of Change (Each Employee)
Complying with and endorsing all local Health and Safety rules and
regulations, reporting incidents and accidents, challenging current 
practice through identifying to colleagues any ways in which hazards 
and risks can be reduced or removed.
Accident free culture
FKI Health and Safety roles and responsibilities 25 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
Health and Safety policy
In order to ensure that its workplaces are safe and 
to provide a sustainable healthy working environment 
FKI pledges to:
• Consider Health and Safety in all transactions
• Meet or exceed current Health and Safety legislation
• Introduce and maintain good working practices
• Develop effective Health and Safety procedures
including identifying and assigning responsibilities 
within each organisation
• Make employees aware of potential risks, hazards,
safe systems of working, operating procedures and 
their responsibilities and statutory obligations;
• Provide appropriate training
• Continually improve systems for recording, reporting
and analysing accidents and incidents
• Set and publish objectives and targets and monitor
progress and assess performance in relation to 
these targets 
This policy is in operation in all FKI businesses globally.
A dedicated Health and Safety committee is set up in 
a large proportion of FKI businesses, representing 99% 
of the workforce.These committees are tasked with
driving down accident rates and ensuring that the
working environment remains safe for all personnel.
Detailed performance is measured in 77% [89%]
1
of 
FKI businesses; covering 94% of employees and all
businesses are currently practicing the setting of
improvement targets.
Health and Safety performance
FKI follows the UK classification of incidents for Group
reporting. Health and Safety reporting guidelines are
communicated to every company to assist them in
reporting their performances each year.All businesses are
also aware of local legislation and reporting mechanisms
and often report under both sets of procedures.
The chart on page 26 plots the total number of recorded
incidents and occurrences and the Group Accident
Frequency Rate respectively.The Accident Frequency
Rate (AFR) is defined as the average number of accidents
per 100,000 hours worked. Dangerous Occurrences,
which are incidents that are reported but have not resulted
in an accident, will continue to be recorded by businesses
and the data utilised internally to help remove the root
cause of incidences.
This year has seen a continued decrease in the total
number of actual accidents, that is, major accidents,
work related illnesses and other reportable accidents,
hence a reduction in the Group’s AFR.There has also
been an improvement in the Group’s AFR.There was 
no workplace fatalities reported in this year.
1
Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005/06. 324
Number of incidences
Other reportable incident Work related illness Dangerous occurence Major incident 
Accident frequency rate
2002
77 26 38 313
2003
68 24 39 250
2004
52 15 37 225
2005
48 7 30 216
2006
49 32 19 220
2007
25 9 11
1.42
1.50
1.34
1.26
1.26
1.09
26 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
There has also been a reduction in the number of
dangerous occurrences in the last year. In all cases,
reported dangerous occurrences are investigated and
preventative measures applied. It is by the recording of
dangerous occurrences and their subsequent resolution
that FKI aims to reduce the number of future incidents
and injuries and hence continue to move towards its 
goal of an accident-free culture.
Within the Group, four units received fines in relation 
to breaches in Health and Safety regulations following
four Health and Safety related convictions.A fifth fine 
was as a result of a Health and Safety audit following 
an accident two years ago.The company in question has
implemented the required changes in line with the audit
recommendations and these have been accepted. Both
policy and practice is been reviewed by all the units in
order to prevent recurrence.
Relative performance standards
As part of FKI’s drive towards an accident-free culture,
all business units have been encouraged to identify a
comparative industry sector accident frequency rate 
(AFR) as an external benchmark for Health and Safety
performance. Currently over  half of the business units
have identified a target AFR, 12% more than last year 
and of these 68% have successfully achieved or bettered
this target. FKI will continue to encourage external
benchmarking with the aim of accelerating improvements
in all areas of Health and Safety.
Target setting
In 2006, the Group moved away from setting a universal
1% improvement target for its Health, Safety and
Environmental performance. In its place, the Group
established with each business, targets for 2006/07 based
upon previous actual performance.This led to much 
more ambitious target setting in 2006/07.This actual
performance based target setting will also be applied 
in future years. 27 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
FKI remains committed to minimising any adverse impact
its businesses have on the environment. Local business
management is responsible for enforcing standards in 
line with legal responsibilities and obligations and
managing risks associated with environmental matters.
Supporting this commitment, 77% [72%]
1
of FKI
businesses, representing 87% of Group turnover, have an
environmental coordinator and nearly 31%, representing
51% of turnover, have an environmental committee.
The importance of environmental issues is emphasised 
to employees with 37% [30%]
1
of FKI businesses,
representing 59% of the workforce, providing
environmental training as part of new employee
orientation programmes.
The Group’s main areas of impact on the environment are
in the use of energy and water and the production of solid
and liquid waste.Where appropriate, businesses have been
encouraged to implement environmental management
systems compatible with ISO 14001.The Group has 21%
of its businesses ISO 14001 (or equivalent) accredited and
32% of Group sales are made by its businesses maintaining
these standards. Continuous improvement in
environmental performance is facilitated through
implementation of the Group environmental policy,
monitoring of environmental performance and internal
and external auditing.
Environmental policy
FKI is committed to the protection and conservation 
of the environment in all of its operations.The Group’s
environmental policy involves the implementation of an
operational management system within each business unit
enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and
obligations. FKI’s environmental policy aims to:
• Develop, install and maintain environmental
management systems
• Meet or exceed current environmental legal
requirements
• Focus on product stewardship, identifying ways 
of improving efficiency throughout the supply chain 
and manufacturing processes to reduce consumption
• Use environmentally responsible suppliers and
subcontractors
• Give preference to alternatives for scarce and 
non-renewable resources
• Develop and market products and services meeting
environmental standards and target each product to 
be produced more efficiently than its predecessors
• Maintain control of discharges and emissions
• Raise awareness of environmental issues
• Identify and communicate best practice throughout 
the Group
• Set and revise environmental targets and policies
• Pursue sustainable practices and processes in 
all operations 
1
Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005/06.
Corporate social responsibility report:
The environment
77%
of FKI businesses have an
environmental coordinator “In a year when Group turnover
increased, and thereby the underlying
levels of activity increased, four out 
of FKI’ s five safety and environmental
indicators showed improvement.”
28 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
All Group businesses have adopted the corporate
environmental policy. One example of how businesses 
are applying policy in practice is the implementation of
lean operations. Most FKI businesses are implementing 
or are planning to implement Lean in order to streamline
processes and improve efficiency through elimination of
waste and non-value adding activities
Environmental performance
Assessment of environmental risks occurs during 
day-to-day business operations as part of FKI’s risk
management process. In addition to this practice,
21% [26%]
1
of businesses, accounting for 37% of Group
turnover, reported completion of a local environmental
risk assessment in 2006/07. In order to ensure
environmental conformity, 42% of businesses, representing
60% of turnover, carried out a combination of internal,
governmental and independent environmental audits this
year including assessment of air quality, waste water
quality, noise, ergonomics, oil storage and spillage control
and legislative and environmental certification compliance.
One formal environmental complaint was received 
during the year.This complaint was in relation to noise
pollution and the business has worked with its Ministry 
of Environment (Canada) to minimise the concerns of 
the local residents.
Environmental improvements
This year, 18% of FKI businesses, accounting for 24% of
Group turnover, have introduced environmentally friendly
initiatives, in many cases with the focus directed towards
the customer.These initiatives include:
• Introduction of solvent recovery plant
• Installation of a facility-wide computerised heating
control system
• Supply of diesel engines with low noise, low emissions
and lower fuel consumption in refurbished locomotives
• Improved recycling, continuation with trend monitoring
and evaluating water based paint systems
• Recycling of cardboard, the use of recycled
photocopying paper and the replacement of a 
solvent degreaser with a water based degreaser 
• Encouraging customers to use biodegradable lubricant 
• Additional facilities for treatment of acid from liquid
waste system 
• Increased use of electronic means for distribution 
of information to customers 
• A plant has switched from a hazardous cleaning solution
to none hazardous cleaning product.
One FKI company based in Denmark reported that 
50% of its supplied electricity is sourced from renewable
energy: 20% from wind turbines, 30% from biomass.
Another UK-based business is currently undertaking 
a study into the possible use of wind turbines.
1
Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005/06. 29 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
Energy consumption
FKI’s energy consumption is based on individual
consumption of electricity, natural gas, diesel etc which 
is then converted to an equivalent of carbon dioxide
(CO2) in kilograms.This allows a year-on-year 
direct comparison, where the term “carbon dioxide
emissions” represents the best estimate of overall 
energy consumption.
The bar-chart opposite shows a continuing reduction in
absolute CO2 emissions.Total CO2 emissions for this year
have reduced by 3.5% compared to last year, exceeding
the Group’s target of 1% reduction.This year’s emissions
are also 22% less than those recorded in 2001.
The line graph represents relative CO2 emissions adjusted
for business activity levels by dividing by Group turnover
in £000s.The resultant figures indicate that business unit
actions reduced CO2 emissions by 7% compared to the
prior year.
Such trends demonstrate FKI’s commitment to 
the environment and its continuing drive 
towards sustainability.
Water consumption
The bar chart below shows that the Group’s absolute
water consumption has decreased this year by 1.3%.
In relative terms, water consumption (m3/£000 turnover)
decreased this year by over 4%.The changing nature of
FKI’s business portfolio means that absolute values are 
not directly comparable year-on-year. Relating water
consumption to the Group’s turnover allows for a much
more accurate picture and gives a better indication of the
environmental performance.The Group’s level of fresh
water consumption is considered by FKI to have a 
great impact on the environment. Businesses globally 
are therefore constantly evaluating ways to recycle,
or reduce fresh water consumption.
7%
reduction in kilograms 
of CO2 produced adjusted 
for business activity
4%
reduction in water 
consumption adjusted 
for business activity
221,859,681
149
284,000,000
163
273,269,161
168
258,597,268
178
249,999,100
186
242,102,831
174
229,860,252
159
Energy consumption
kgCO2
kgCO2/£000 turnover
2001 2007 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
2,057,405
1.38
2,945,000
1.69
2,431,005
1.50
2,152,499
1.48
2,121,480
1.58
1,999,656
1.44
2,084,930
1.44
Water consumption
m3
m3/£000 turnover
2001 2007 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 551
0.37
1,097
0.63
994
0.61
792
0.55
627
0.47
789
0.57
489
0.34
Liquid waste disposal
£000
£ disposal cost/£000 turnover
2001 2007 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
30 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
Waste disposal and recycling
FKI businesses are required to report on both liquid and
solid waste within the CSR review process.The disposal
costs are reported within the CSR report – along with
the disposal cost per £000 turnover – to allow a 
year-on-year comparative figure.These figures are
presented below. Each unit which produces solid or liquid
waste is responsible for disposing of that waste through
cost effective and environmentally acceptable methods.
No environmental permits were revoked in 2006/07.
Liquid waste disposal 
FKI produces waste liquid mainly from water used 
for cooling purposes, surface treatments, washing down
products during the production process and sanitary
purposes. Some businesses which produce relatively 
large quantities of waste water and liquid as a result 
of manufacturing processes have water treatment plants
that are monitored regularly by local water authorities.
Where water meets strict standards, discharge into rivers 
is permitted. Permitted discharge into sewers is also
regulated and occurs only with approval. Liquid waste 
may also be removed by registered disposal companies.
Where petroleum, bulk hazardous chemicals or acid wastes
are required to be stored on site, appropriate permits are
held by the relevant businesses.Where businesses cannot
treat liquid waste they have permits in place for the
removal and treatment of the waste off site. Consistent 
and suitable monitoring and reporting of liquid waste
processing procedure are in place in all businesses.
The graph above shows an increase in liquid waste
disposal costs in 2006/07 compared to the previous year.
This is due to increased turnover and underlying levels 
of activity for 2006/07 in those businesses that produce
high levels of liquid waste. Improvements in environmental
reporting are believed to be the foundation of controlling
waste levels and associated costs. Solid waste disposal
The Group’s expenditure on processing solid waste
reduced this year by 25% on last year’s costs.The total
solid waste disposal costs in 2007 have reduced by 
51% since 2001. It is the aim of FKI to continue to
reduce solid waste levels and hence disposal costs 
across the Group.
FKI businesses make use of opportunities to recycle 
solid waste produced during operations. Over 68% of
businesses, producing 88% of Group turnover, recycle part
or all of the solid waste they produce, the overall income
from which is substantially higher than the disposal costs
of the remaining solid waste and liquid waste together.
Recycling therefore not only offers a solution to reduce
net waste output levels but is also commercially beneficial
if fully embraced.
Summary
The Group remains committed to driving continuous
improvement in all areas of CSR performance.
In a diversified Company such as FKI, a balance must 
be maintained between application of policy by the
corporate centre and delegation of responsibility 
to the local businesses.The growth of Group wide
communications continues to have a positive influence 
on CSR performance in all businesses.This is displayed
through more ambitious target setting, external
benchmarking, company reporting and performance.
As businesses share examples of best practice and
communicate their local strategies, experiences and
performance levels, further improvements are targeted.
31 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
25%
360
0.24
732
0.42
668
0.41
645
0.44
459
0.34
571
0.41
480
0.33
Solid waste disposal
£000
£ disposal cost/£000 turnover
2001 2007 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
reduction in solid waste disposal
costs; aided by better recycling Board of Directors
1 Gordon Page CBE, DL, M.A., FRAeS
Non-Executive Chairman (born 1943)
Appointed to the Board in August 2004 as a 
non-executive director and became Chairman in
September 2004. He is Chairman of Hamworthy plc 
and Air Tanker Holdings Limited. He is also Chairman 
of Cobham plc and was previously Chief Executive 
there from 1992 until 2001. He is a director of 
Lockheed Martin UK Holdings Ltd.
2 Paul Heiden B.Sc., A.R.C.S., A.C.A.
Chief Executive (born 1957)
Appointed to the Board in January 2003 when he 
joined FKI as Chief Executive. Previously he was at 
Rolls-Royce where he was appointed Director of
Industrial Businesses in 1997 and Finance Director 
in 1999, a position he held until 2002. He is a 
non-executive director of United Utilities plc.
3 Neil Bamford B.A., F .C.C.A.
Finance Director (born 1958)
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2004. He joined 
the Group in 1988 and has held a number of posts
including Managing Director, Lifting Products &
Services, Group Chief Accountant and European
Managing Director of the Materials Handling Group.
4 Reg Gott B.Sc., M.Sc.
Engineering Director (born 1957)
Appointed to the Board in April 2002. He joined FKI 
in 1994 as Managing Director of Froude Consine Test
Equipment. He has since managed several operations 
and in 1998 became Managing Director of the Rotating
Machines Division. Since 2004 he has been Managing
Director of FKI Logistex. He is a non-executive director
of Filtronic plc.
12 3 4
32 FKI plc Board of Directors 33 FKI plc Board of Directors
5 Sir Michael Hodgkinson B.A., A.C.M.A.
Non-executive (born 1944)
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in
April 2000. He is senior non-executive director at Royal
Mail plc and was appointed Chairman of Post Office Ltd
in May 2003. He retired as Chief Executive of BAA plc in
June 2003. He is also a non-executive director of Dublin
Airport and Chairman of First Choice Holidays plc.
6 Charles Matthews B.Sc. (Hons), M.B.A.
Non-executive (born 1953)
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director 
on 11 September 2003. He is the founder and Managing
Director of his own strategy consulting business focusing
on the automotive and mobile telecommunications sector.
He is also a non-executive director and founder of Sigma
QC, and Chairman of a number of other businesses in 
the motorsports and intellectual asset management sectors.
He has extensive experience in the engineering industry
including appointments as Chief Executive of Cosworth
and Managing Director of the Car Division of 
Rolls-Royce. He is Chairman of Porvair plc and 
also Chairman of Axeon Holdings plc.
7 David Pearl M.A.
Non-executive (born 1948)
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director 
in 2005. During a long career with BP plc he has held
various senior positions in the UK, USA,Asia Pacific 
and Europe spanning finance, IT, ventures and general
management. Prior to his current appointment within 
the Office of the Chairman, and as Deputy Company
Secretary of BP plc, he was Managing Director of BP 
in Greece and before that Chief Financial Officer,
BP Asia Pacific.
8 Richard Case CBE, DL, MSc, FREng, FRAeS
Non-executive (born 1945)
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director 
on 7 February 2006. He was CEO of GKN Westland 
and, from 2001-2004, was Managing Director of Agusta
Westland and Chairman of Westland Helicopters Limited.
56 7 8 34 FKI plc
The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining
the highest possible standards of corporate governance and
during the year followed the principles set out in Section 1
of the Combined Code.
The directors consider that, throughout the year ended 
31 March 2007 the Company complied fully with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
with the exception of the requirement that at least one
member of the Audit Committee is identified as having
recent financial experience.The Company’s position is set
out on page 35.
This statement on corporate governance, together with 
the Remuneration report, provides a commentary on 
how the Company complied with the principles included
in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board
The directors supervise the management of the business
and the affairs of the Company and see their prime
responsibility as being to determine the broad strategy 
of the Group and to ensure its implementation with a 
view to enhancing the prosperity of the Group and its
shareholders over time.
The Board currently comprises three executive and 
five non-executive directors, and their names are listed 
on page 32 and 33.The Board has reviewed the position 
of its non-executive directors and has determined that 
they are all independent in character and judgement 
in accordance with the guidance as set out in the 
Combined Code. Sir Michael Hodgkinson has been 
the senior independent director throughout the year.
The Board meets at least six times each year with
additional meetings as required.All directors receive regular
information on the Group’s operational and financial
performance and the Board has reserved certain items for
its review and approval, including the annual and interim
results, the strategy of the Company, the annual profit plan,
corporate governance and internal control. It also makes
high level decisions regarding acquisitions and divestments,
and sets policies on, amongst other things, remuneration,
health and safety, and the environment.
The Company Secretary is appointed by and responsible
to the Board and all directors have access to his advice
and services. Directors may obtain independent
professional advice if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
Formal agenda, papers and reports are supplied to 
directors in a timely manner, prior to Board meetings.
Briefings are also provided at other times, for example,
through operational visits and business presentations.
The Company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive 
each having their own separate responsibilities. Essentially,
the Chairman is responsible for the effective working 
of the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for 
all operational matters.
The directors may at any time appoint an additional
director.A formal selection process is carried out, making
use of external agencies in the selection of suitable
candidates where it appears necessary or appropriate.
Upon the appointment of a new director, relevant training
is provided as required.
Any director so appointed shall hold office until the 
next Annual General Meeting and shall be eligible for
reappointment at that meeting. Following such appointment,
the Articles of Association require each director to retire by
rotation and seek re-election at least every three years.
Board committees
The Board has appointed the following principal
committees:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all the non-executive
directors and, following the retirement of Mr R P Edey,
is chaired by Mr D J Pearl. It met three times during the
year and its primary tasks are:
• to monitor the integrity of the financial information 
to be reported to shareholders. Preliminary results,
interim information and annual financial statements are
reviewed by the Committee before they are presented 
to the Board, concentrating particularly on accounting
policies and compliance, areas of management judgement
and estimates.
• to review the systems of internal control and risk
management. As an integral part of this process the
Committee reviews annually the process of risk
management and identification with an external advisor.
• to receive regular reports from the Group’s external
auditors. Each year the external auditors’ effectiveness,
independence and objectivity is assessed and advice 
given to the Board concerning their appointment and
remuneration.The Committee sets the policy on their
engagement and remuneration for non-audit work.
Such work is only authorised where the external auditors
are best suited to perform it, will not involve the audit 
of their own firm’s work and will not involve them
making management decisions for or acting as advocate
for the Company.The Committee monitors the cost of
non-audit work throughout the year.
• to review the remit of the internal audit function, including
its authority, resources and scope of work. The Committee
monitors the management’s response to audit findings at
least twice a year. Each year the Committee undertakes 
a review of the effectiveness of internal audit.
Specific items reviewed during the year included internal
controls in the wire rope business, taxation planning,
business risk assessment and accounting and financial
reporting developments. In addition the Committee 
held private sessions with both the internal and 
external auditor.
Corporate governance
  The Committee believes it meets all key provisions of the
Combined Code excepting that the Board considers that
the Committee, through the collective experience of its
members, can fulfil its tasks without the need to identify
any one individual member as having recent and relevant
financial experience.
Remuneration Committee
This Committee meets at least twice a year, and consists 
of non-executive directors with Mr R Case as Chairman.
Its key role is to make recommendations to the Board on
the Company’s framework of executive remuneration and
its cost, and to determine specific remuneration packages
for each of the executive directors, including pension 
rights and compensation payments.The objective of 
the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the
executive directors are both highly motivated and fairly
rewarded for their contributions to the Group’s overall
performance. Further details of the Committee’s work 
and of the directors’ emoluments and interests are set 
out in the report of the Remuneration Committee on
pages 40 to 50.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman 
of the Board and all the remaining non-executive
directors. It meets when necessary to make
recommendations to the Board on all new Board
appointments and also to advise generally on issues 
relating to Board composition and balance.
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and
Committee meetings attended by each Director during 
the year was as follows:
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Number of meetings 8 3 3 1
Attendance
G F Page 8 3++ 3++ 1
Sir Michael 
Hodgkinson 8 3 3 1
N Bamford 8 n/a n/a n/a
R I Case 6 331
R P Edey* 2 1 1 1
R L Gott 8 n/a n/a n/a
P Heiden 8 n/a n/a n/a
C L Matthews 8 3 3 1
D J Pearl 8 331
* up to date of cessation of directorship.
++ by invitation.
Communications with shareholders
In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is
disseminated in order to maintain an orderly market in the
ordinary shares of the Company, the Company maintains 
a regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and
analysts, particularly following trading updates and results
announcements, which are posted on the Company’s
website, which provides additional Company information
and is regularly updated.
The Board members attend the Annual General 
Meeting and, in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available
to answer questions.
At Annual General Meetings, separate resolutions are
proposed on each substantially separate issue and the
number of proxy votes received for and against each
resolution is announced together with the number of
abstentions. Notices of Annual General Meetings are 
sent to shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting.
Financial reporting
The directors, who have sole responsibility for the
preparation and presentation of this report and accounts
and other price sensitive public reports, seek to prepare
those reports in a way that represents a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects.
Internal control and risk management system
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility 
to safeguard the Company’s assets and shareholders’
investment. In accordance with “Internal Control:
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”
(“the Turnbull Guidance”), the Board of FKI has
established a risk management policy and system which 
are an integral part of the management’s approach to
delivery of the strategic and business objectives.The risk
management system is a systematic process designed to
identify, assess, treat, manage and communicate business
risks. It also provides a process for the escalation and
delegation of risks to the appropriate level in the
operations and ensures that actions are properly defined,
resourced and effected to give confidence in achievement
of business objectives.The system operates throughout 
FKI and is applied equally to the operating units and
corporate function and report on significant areas of 
risk and the appropriate controls.
35 FKI plc Corporate governance 36 FKI plc
Risks arise from a wide variety of internal and external
sources and can be associated with customer requirements,
competitor actions, regulations and political actions.
They may also arise from the products and services sold by
the Group and the processes used by operations as part of
their normal activities. Management regularly carries out
risk assessments covering risks in strategy, risks to achieving
commitments contained in contracts with customers,
risks in organisational change, risks associated with major
projects and risks involving potential acquisitions.
The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised
risks, the probability of them happening and their impact
together with the associated action plans to mitigate them.
Operating unit and corporate function managers are
responsible for these action plans and their progress is
reported at least twice a year to the FKI Risk Committee
as part of their performance review.The Risk Committee
is accountable for the risk management system and for
reporting key risks and associated mitigating actions to 
the Board through the Audit Committee and meets at 
least twice a year. It is chaired by the Chief Executive 
and the other members are the senior executive
management.The Finance Director is responsible for 
the implementation of the risk management process
throughout the Group and the compilation of the Group
risk register which records all risks which management
consider to be significant, together with all appropriate
mitigating actions.The risk registers are reviewed with the
three year business plans in August/September and with
the annual budget in February/March.These reviews cover
actions completed and the status of ongoing actions.
An independent review of the risk process was completed
in October 2003 and concluded that the risk process was
in compliance with the Turnbull guidelines. However it
was decided that a number of improvements could be
made to the process to help meet business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s
systems of internal control and for reviewing their
effectiveness.The Board has reviewed the key risks
inherent in the Group, together with the operating,
financial and compliance controls that have been
implemented to mitigate those key risks. However, any
system of internal control can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The Company has an organisation structure with clearly
defined lines of responsibility, accountability and delegated
authority and with clear local operating autonomy within
a framework of central management, stated corporate aims
and objectives.The operating performance of each business
is regularly reviewed by the executive directors, and
progress is monitored against business plans, utilising
established procedures for business planning, budgeting,
capital expenditure approval and treasury management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
systems of internal control and risk management during
the period covered by this annual report. It confirms that
the processes described above which conform with the
guidance on internal control appended to the code (the
revised Turnbull Guidance) have been in place throughout
that period and up to the date of approval of the annual
report.The Board also confirms that no significant failings
or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
Whistle blowing policy
The Company has a whistle blowing policy that is subject
to regular review and if necessary revision. Copies are
displayed in Group occupied buildings.Additionally a copy
of the policy is available on the Group’s intranet site.
Corporate governance The directors submit their report and the audited financial
statements of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Principal activities
The principal activities and the development of the Group
are given in the Chairman’s statement on pages 2 and 3
and the Operating and financial review on pages 4 to 20.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and
policies are discussed in the Operating and financial review
on pages 18 and 19.The exposure of the Group to foreign
currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk are set 
out in note 28 to the financial statements.
Dividends
The directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary
shares in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007 of 3.0p
per share, payable on 5 October 2007 to shareholders on 
the register on 7 September 2007, which with the interim
dividend paid on 23 February 2007 absorbs a total of 
£26.4 million.
Directors
The names of the directors as at the date of this report 
are listed on pages 32 and 33, together with brief 
biographical notes. Mr R Edey retired from the Board 
on 1 August 2006.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and in
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,
Mr C Matthews and Mr N Bamford retire by rotation 
and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
No contract or arrangement has been entered into at 
any time during the year in which any director had a
material interest which was significant in relation to 
the Group’s business.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the directors (including their family
interests) all of which are beneficial, in the share capital,
share options and the Long-Term Incentive Plan of 
the company appear in the Remuneration report on 
pages 40 to 50.
Political and charitable donations
During the year ended 31 March 2007 the Group
contributed £0.1 million (2006: £0.1 million) in the 
UK for charitable purposes.There were no political
donations during the year (2006: £nil).
Research and development
Product development and innovation is a continuing
process.The Group’s businesses commit resources to
research and development to assist them in securing 
their competitive positions in their chosen markets.
Employment policies
Companies within the Group have developed a wide 
range of voluntary practices and procedures for employee
involvement appropriate to their own circumstances and
needs.The Group encourages this approach to providing
information and consultation and believes that this
promotes a better understanding of the issues facing the
individual business in which the employee works. It is the
policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to
applications made by disabled persons for job vacancies 
and promotions, where particular job requirements are
within their ability and, where possible, arrangements are
made for the continuing employment of employees who
have become disabled.
Further details of employment and health and safety
policies are included in the Corporate social responsibility
report on pages 21 to 31.
Environmental policy
The Group is committed to adopting a responsible
approach to environmental matters.The Group’s overall
policy forms the basis of detailed guidelines that are
appropriate to the individual businesses.
Management seeks to minimise any adverse impact on 
the environment of all aspects of the Group’s operations 
by means of environmentally sound disciplines, which 
take practical steps to control effectively or eliminate any
known pollution risks. Specifically, capital expenditure is
directed towards the replacement of hazardous materials
with environmentally friendly alternatives and methods 
of minimising the costs of disposal of toxic waste, the
recycling of wood, the reuse of cardboard and paper
products, and the reduction of energy consumption.
Further details of the Group’s environmental policies 
are included in the Corporate social responsibility report
on pages 27 to 31.
37 FKI plc
Directors’ report 38 FKI plc
Payments to suppliers
Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms
and conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and
conditions being met by the supplier. FKI plc, as a holding
company, did not have any amounts owing to trade
creditors at 31 March 2007.
Share capital
The movement in the share capital during the year is
detailed in note 34 to the financial statements.
Significant shareholdings
As at 12 June 2007, the following major interests of 3% or
more in the ordinary shares in issue had been notified to
the Company by:
Number Holding 
of shares%
HSBC Investment Management 57,550,582 9.78
Barclays plc 40,994,024 6.97
Franklin Resources Inc 35,687,573 6.07
New Star Asset 
Management Ltd 35,420,371 6.02
Nordea Bank SA 29,437,044 5.00
Newton Investment 
Management Ltd 27,155,255 4.62
Witmer Asset Management LLC 24,465,544 4.16
Legal & General Group PLC 24,179,942 4.11
Man Financial Limited 19,299,939 3.28
Corporate governance
A review of the Company’s application of the principles
and provisions of The Combined Code appears on 
pages 34 to 36.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Y oung LLP as 
the Group’s auditors will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be
held at 12 noon on 24 July 2007 in The Riverside Room
of Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.A notice of meeting
appears in the enclosed circular and for those members
wishing to attend a location map has been included within
the circular.
The Special Business to be considered at the meeting
relates to the following matters:
Description Resolution number
General authority to allot equity securities 8
Limited authority to allot equity securities 
for cash excluding pre-emption rights 9
Authority to purchase shares 10
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information 
to auditors
The directors who were members of the Board at the 
time of approving the directors’ report are listed on 
pages 32 and 33. Each of these directors confirms that:
• to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief there
is no information relevant to the preparation of their
report of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• each director has taken all the steps a director might
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of
relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Directors’ indemnities
During the financial year the directors have enjoyed the
benefit of indemnity insurance.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association
directors are granted an indemnity from the Company 
in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity extends to legal costs incurred in
proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour.
Directors’ report Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and Group and parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and
parent Company financial statements for each financial
year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare
the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs
as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and have
elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and
IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial
position and performance of the Group; the Companies
Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements
that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial
statements giving a true and fair view are references to
their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required 
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company
financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements state whether they
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted
by the EU; and
• for the parent Company financial statements state
whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the parent Company financial statements.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and of the Group, and enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation the directors are 
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report,
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in 
the UK governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
The requirements to provide an enhanced Directors’
Report under Section 243ZZB of the Companies Act 
have been addressed in this Report and the preceding
Operating and Financial Review.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors are
confident that the Company has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, the directors adopt the going
concern basis in the preparation of the Group’s 
financial statements.
By order of the Board
Antonio Ventrella Secretary
15 June 2007
39 FKI plc Directors’ report 40 FKI plc
Composition and Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating executive remuneration policy and for determining 
the remuneration of the executive directors and certain senior executives.
Its members are the non-executive directors as shown in Table 1, together with their attendance at meetings of the
Remuneration Committee during 2006/07.
Table 1. Remuneration Committee membership and attendance in 2006/07
1 June 25 July 23 November 29 March
Committee member 2006 2006
(1)
2006 2007
Mr R I Case (Chairman) Attended Attended Attended Attended
Mr R P Edey
(2)
Attended – – –
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Attended Attended Attended Attended
Mr C L Matthews Attended – Attended Attended
Mr D J Pearl Attended Attended Attended Attended
Notes:
(1) The meeting held on 25 July 2006 was a telephone meeting.
(2) Mr Edey resigned his position as non-executive director on 1 August 2006.
All of the above served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year, or as indicated, in Table 1.All of the
non-executive directors including the Company Chairman are considered by the Company to be independent.
The Company Chairman attended the Committee by invitation.
Mr Heiden is normally invited to attend meetings as an adviser to the Committee. He was not present when his own
remuneration was being determined. During 2006/07 the Committee received information from Mercer Human
Resources (TSR monitoring), and Hewitt Associates (remuneration policy and market data). Hewitt also provided
administration services to the Group pension scheme and plan. Mr Heiden appointed Hewitt Associates as advisers in
2004/05. Mercer Human Resources was appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 1998. During the year Hewitt
Associates were formally appointed as advisers to the Committee. Hewitt Associates continued to act as advisers to the
Chief Executive. Should conflict of interest arise for Hewitt in this dual advisory role, the Chief Executive will appoint
his own alternative adviser.
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, an ordinary resolution seeking shareholders’ approval 
for the Remuneration report will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Executive remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee’s objectives are to ensure that the Company is able to:
• attract, retain and motivate high calibre people; and
• align the interests of the executive directors and senior executives with those of shareholders by rewarding executive
directors and certain senior executives according to the overall performance of the individual businesses and Group.
The Group reviewed its remuneration policy in 2004/5 and introduced many best practices, particularly with regard 
to annual and long-term incentives.
The Group’s remuneration policy is:
• setting base salaries at the appropriate market median;
• 50% of total remuneration to be variable, for on-target performance;
• a balance between short and long-term variable remuneration;
• one-third of annual incentives paid as deferred shares that can be matched if an ROIC
(1)
target is achieved;
• long-term incentives are a combination of option grants and/or performance shares.
Under this policy, on-target performance is capable of delivering around 50% of total remuneration in the form of
variable remuneration.This is achieved through the annual performance related bonus scheme and long-term incentives.
(1) ROIC is defined as operating profit adjusted for exceptional items divided by total capital invested in the business.
Remuneration report Basic salary and benefits
Basic salary is reviewed annually having regard to market practices for similar executive positions in a comparable 
group of companies mainly in the engineering sector and supported by information and advice from independent
external consultants.
A median based salary policy was adopted in 2005 when it was considered that the former “lower-quartile” policy
impaired the Company’s ability to attract and retain high calibre executives.
For most roles the comparator group was the engineering and machinery sector. However, for the roles of Chief
Executive and Group Finance Director a broader range of comparators, including some outside of the engineering 
and machinery sector, are used to help determine competitive base salaries. Comparative data and information was
provided by Hewitt Associates. Executive directors also receive additional taxable benefits, namely the provision of 
a fully expensed company car (or an allowance in lieu thereof), medical insurance and disability insurance.
Performance appraisal
The Company has a structured performance appraisal process for its executive directors and executive management.
The outcome from appraisal influences decisions on salary progression and helps to identify individual and collective
training and development needs.
Annual performance-related bonus scheme
The Company operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme for executive directors and other schemes 
for certain senior executives.The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director participate in a bonus scheme based 
upon budgeted pre-tax profits of the Group. Mr Gott, Group Engineering Director/MD FKI Logistex participates 
in a scheme based partly upon budgeted pre-tax profit of the Group and partly on the profit and operating cash flow 
of FKI Logistex. Other senior executives participate in a bonus scheme based upon business unit profit, operating 
cash flow and achievement of personal objectives, or Group profit and personal objectives.
For executive directors a performance related bonus of 25% of salary is payable for achieving a trigger point of Target
profit less 10% budgeted operating profit, after interest but before exceptional items, amortisation and tax.The bonus
increases on a straight line pro rata basis from 25% to 50% for achieving between the trigger point and 100% of Target
profit.The bonus may increase further on a straight line pro rata basis from 50% to 100% for achieving 100% of Target
profit plus 10% of budgeted operating profit.
Following approval by the Board of reasonable adjustments to Target profit, the Company’s external auditors check 
that the calculation of bonuses for the executive directors adheres to the scheme rules governing such calculations.
The rules of the bonus scheme will be reviewed in 2007 to take account of the ABI’s updated guidelines on executive
remuneration – policy and practice.
In 2006, one-third of post-tax cash bonus for executive directors was exchanged for deferred shares. If the Company’s
level of ROIC reaches an average of 10% over the following three years the deferred shares will be matched one-for-
one. Dividends are paid on deferred shares.This plan is designed to align executive directors’ interests more closely with
the long-term interests of shareholders and provides a mechanism that encourages executive directors to grow their
personal shareholding in the Company.A similar scheme exists for a small number of senior executives but with reduced
levels of matching. Executive directors are now encouraged to accumulate a shareholding of at least one times basic
salary over a four year period.
41 FKI plc Remuneration report 42 FKI plc
Long-term incentive plan
Long-term incentives were provided through a combination of executive share options and performance shares.
Each element of the long-term incentive may vest independently of the other. Executive directors can be awarded 
the equivalent of up to two times annual salary in options and up to one times annual salary in performance shares,
determined on an individual basis by the Remuneration Committee. Details of actual grants can be found in tables 
on pages 48 and 49.
Share options
The practice is to grant options within a period of six weeks following the announcement of the Company’s
preliminary and/or interim results.
The share option element is granted at the average price of FKI plc ordinary shares over five dealing days before 
the grant date and are normally required to be held for a minimum of three years before they are capable of exercise.
If options fail to vest at the third anniversary they lapse. Options that vest at the third anniversary remain live until 
the tenth anniversary of granting. Options vest against a level of Earnings Per Share (EPS). For grants made in 2006 
no options vest for an EPS less than RPI + 12% over the three-year measurement period. For EPS at or greater than
RPI + 12%, options vest on a straight-line basis as illustrated in the table below.
Earnings per share growth is considered to be an appropriate measure of the Company’s underlying performance,
as it requires that there should be a demanding improvement in the Company’s performance before scheme participants
can benefit from an increase in the share price.The assessment as to whether performance conditions have been met 
is calculated by the Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and independently verified by the Remuneration
Committee, and, where appropriate, advice is obtained from an external independent firm of Chartered Accountants.
Earnings per share is defined as the Company’s headline earnings per share, as calculated in accordance with the
principles set out in the Statement of Investment Practice No. 1 “The Definition of IIMR Headline Earnings” issued 
by the Institute of Investment Management and Research. IIMR Headline earnings are calculated by excluding from 
the reported results any income statement items of a non-trading or capital nature.
Option grants made in 2006/07
RPI + EPS growth over a three year period Percentage of the option grant that vests
Below RPI + 12% Nil
RPI + 12% 25
RPI + 15% 50
RPI + 18% 75
RPI + 21% 100
Performance shares
Performance shares are held in trust for three years.There are two performance conditions for each grant of
performance shares. Fifty per cent of a grant may vest against Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and the remaining 
50% may vest against return on invested capital (ROIC). Performance shares that fail to vest at the third anniversary 
of grant automatically lapse.Accrued dividends are paid on any performance shares that vest.
For performance shares linked to TSR, no shares vest for a TSR performance below the 50th percentile. For a TSR
performance at or above the 50th percentile performance shares vest on a straight line basis as illustrated in the 
table below:
FKI plc TSR performance Percentage of the TSR-related performance shares that vest
Below median Nil
Equal to the median 30
Equal to or above the 80th percentile 100
Remuneration report Long-term incentive plan (continued)
For performance shares linked to ROIC, no shares vest for a three-year average ROIC of less than 8%. For a three-year
average ROIC performance above 8%, performance shares vest on a straight line basis as illustrated in the table below:
Averaged ROIC over a three year performance period Percentage of the ROIC-related performance shares that vest
Below 8% Nil
At 8% 40
At 9% 60
At 10% 80
At 11% and above 100
Former long-term incentive plan
All executive options granted from July 1996 onwards may only be exercised subject to a performance condition that
the Group’s growth in earnings per share, as defined above, must exceed the UK retail price index by 9% or more over 
a three year period, subject to retesting in subsequent years from a rolling base. Retesting was removed from the former
executive option scheme for options granted after April 2004.
The level of vesting of awards under the former LTIP is determined by performance of the Company’s Total Shareholder
Return (TSR) against a comparator group of all companies which on the date of grant are constituent companies of 
the former Engineering and Machinery sector as determined by the FTSE Actuaries Industry Classification Committee.
The graph below shows the Company’s TSR performance compared with that of the comparator group.
No awards vest for below median performance and 50% of an award will vest for median performance. Full vesting
occurs only at upper quartile performance, and 75% of an award will vest for performance above the median but below
upper quartile.Accrued dividends on vested awards are paid to the executives pending transfer of the shares into the
name of the respective participant.The performance condition is Total Shareholder Return, as illustrated in the graph
below, as this was considered to be the best means of aligning the interests of directors with shareholders by requiring
superior total shareholder return.
A table giving full details of the directors’ options, LTIP shares and performances shares granted under the new and
former plans and exercised during the year under review is shown on pages 48 and 49.
43 FKI plc Remuneration report
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Total Shareholder Return
31 March 02 31 March 03 31 March 04 31 March 05 31 March 06 31 March 07
FKI plc FTSE All-Share Engineering and Machinery Sector Index 44 FKI plc
Long-term incentive plan (continued)
Table 2 below shows a list of competitor companies included during the period 2003/07.
Table 2. TSR monitoring awards peer group 2003/07
AGA Foodservice
(7)
Foseco
(8)
Morgan Crucible
(7)
Bodycote International Halma
(7)
Rotork
Castings
(2)
Henlys Group
(4)
Senior
Charter Hill and Smith
(3)
Severfield-Rowen
(2)
Cookson Group
(7)
IMI Spirax-Sarco
Domnick Hunter
(1,6)
Kidde
(5)
Stanelco
(8)
Enodis Melrose
(8)
T omkins
(7)
Fenner Metalrax Group Vitec Group
FKI Molins
(2)
Weir Group
Notes:
(1) Domnick Hunter fell outside the FTSE All-Share engineering and machinery index in 2002 but re-entered in December 2003.
(2) Castings, Molins and Severfield-Rowen entered the peer group in 2003. Molins dropped back out of the Index in December 2004 and has not been included 
in subsequent peer groups.
(3) Hill and Smith entered the peer group in 2004.
(4) Henlys Group delisted in July 2004 and have been excluded from the peer group.
(5) Kidde was acquired by United Technologies Corporation in May 2005 and has been excluded from the peer group.
(6) Domnick Hunter was acquired by Parker Hannifin Corporation.Trading ceased in December 2005. Domnick Hunter has been excluded from the peer group.
(7) After the reclassification to the FTSE indices in January 2006, the following companies were reclassified out of the FTSE engineering and machinery index:
Aga Foodservice, Cookson Group, Halma, Morgan Crucible and Tomkins.
(8) Foseco, Melrose and Stanelco were added to the FTSE engineering and machinery index in 2006 and so entered the peer group in 2006.
The assessment of whether or not the performance conditions have been met is independently calculated by Mercer
Human Resources consulting in conjunction with Datastream and is ratified by the Remuneration Committee.
Inland Revenue Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme
This scheme was approved by shareholders in 1997 and was open to all UK employees who had completed six months’
service and who entered into an approved savings contract for a term of three or five years.The maximum amount that
could be saved was £250 per month, and the total savings (including interest) at the end of the term are available to
purchase shares at 80% of their market value shortly before the start of the savings contract. Executive directors could
participate in this scheme on the same terms as all other employees.
No grants of SAYE options were made under the scheme during 2006/07.
Recruitment of new directors
Executive directors
The Nominations Committee review and approve a recruitment specification.The Director of Group HR advises the
Committee on availability of internal candidates. If no internal candidate exists, a recruitment consultant or headhunter
may be engaged depending on the nature of the assignment.The Chief Executive selects a shortlist of candidates from
those presented by the recruitment consultant.A member of the Nominations Committee joins with the Chief
Executive to select from the shortlist of candidates.The Nominations Committee recommend an appointment and 
the Remuneration Committee recommends an appropriate remuneration package.The Board ratifies the appointment.
The recruitment process is concluded by the Chief Executive.
Remuneration report Recruitment of new directors (continued)
Non-executive directors
The Nominations Committee agree a recruitment specification.The Company Chairman leads the recruitment process
that may involve an external search firm.The Company Chairman selects a shortlist of candidates for interview with 
the Chief Executive and Nominations Committee.The Nominations Committee then make a recommendation for
appointment to the Board.
Non-executive Chairman
The Nominations Committee agree a recruitment specification.They appoint one of their members to lead the
recruitment process.A search firm may be engaged to assist with the recruitment process.A shortlist of candidates 
is presented to the Chief Executive who interviews potential candidates, and refines the shortlist.The Nominations
Committee make the final selection and recommendation to the Board.
Service contracts
It is the Company’s policy that all executive directors have one-year rolling service contracts with a one-year notice
period. However, in order to attract high calibre recruits, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion 
to offer newly recruited executive directors an initial two-year notice period which reduces to one year. Save as listed
below, there are no express provisions for compensation payable upon early termination of the executive directors’
contracts and at the date of termination, other than payments due during the notice period.
The standard terms within service agreements are being reviewed to ensure they are compliant with ABI revised
guidelines published in December 2006.
In the case of Mr Heiden, in the event of termination of his service contract by an acquiring company after a change 
of control, there is provision in his service contract for a payment of liquidated damages equivalent to one year’s pay 
and contractual benefits without deduction for mitigation and/or accelerated receipt.
The contract dates and notice periods for the executive directors during the year were as follows:
Name of director Date of contract Notice period
P Heiden 16 December 2002 One year
R L Gott 7 April 2005 One year
N Bamford 2 June 2004 One year
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts.The dates of the current non-executive directors’
appointments are as follows:
Non-executive director Appointment date Date of last re-election Date of next re-election
Mr R P Edey 6 November 1996 23 July 2003 Retired August 2006
Sir Michael Hodgkinson 1 April 2000 1 August 2006 1 August 2009
Mr C L Matthews 11 September 2003 21 July 2004 24 July 2007
Mr G F Page CBE 1 August 2004 20 July 2005 July 2008
Mr D J Pearl 27 September 2005 1 August 2006 1 August 2009
Mr R I Case CBE 7 February 2006 1 August 2006 1 August 2009
45 FKI plc Remuneration report 46 FKI plc
Succession planning
In 2004, the Company introduced a succession planning process for its executive directors and senior executive
management as part of its risk management process.The Remuneration Committee reviewed the 2005 executive
succession plan at its meeting in November 2006 and recommended actions to address succession issues in a small
number of Group businesses.The Executive Committee has continued to manage the development of potential
successors.The executive development programme continued in 2006 with the help of Ashridge in the UK and 
Babson College, Boston MA, in the USA.
Pensions
With the exception of Mr Heiden, executive directors are members of the FKI Group Pension Scheme, a defined
benefit scheme with a normal retirement age for directors of 60 years. Mr Gott is also a special member of the 
FKI Group Pension Plan into which four instalments of £45,000 are being paid in lieu of his former Unfunded
Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme (“UURBS”).
The Scheme’s main features, in respect of executive directors, are:
(a) a cash benefit on death in service of four times annual rate of the highest average basic salary (restricted to the
earnings cap where it applies) during any three consecutive years within the ten years before the member’s date 
of death.Additional life assurance cover is purchased where necessary to provide death in service benefits relating 
to salary above the notional earnings cap;
(b) pensions payable in the event of ill health;
(c) pensions for dependants on a member’s death generally equal to half the member’s prospective retirement pension 
at 60 on death in service, or half the member’s pension entitlement on death in retirement;
(d) member contributions are 7% of basic salary (restricted to the notional earnings cap where it applies).
There are funded unapproved pension arrangements to increase pension benefits where, because of pension scheme
limitations (including those resulting from the notional earnings cap), these cannot be paid in total from the FKI Group
Pension Scheme. Such arrangements apply to Mr Gott.
In lieu of participation in the FKI Group Pension Scheme, Mr Heiden received contributions into a funded unapproved
retirement benefit scheme equivalent to 50% of his basic salary. Details of this are shown in the table headed “Directors’
emoluments” on page 47.
Details of the directors’ pension benefits during the year under review are shown on page 48.
Non-executive directorships
The Company believes that there are significant benefits to the individual and the Company from executive directors
accepting non-executive directorships in other organisations.
Each executive director may normally accept one non-executive directorship provided that it does not conflict with 
the Company’s interests and is approved by the Board. Fees from any external directorship may be retained by the
director concerned.
Mr Heiden held one non-executive position with United Utilities plc. Details of fees received by him in 2006/07 
in respect of this position are shown below:
United Utilities plc £48,900 Appointed 5 October 2005
During the year Mr Gott was appointed non-executive director of Filtronic plc. Details of fees received by him 
in 2006/07 in respect of this position are shown below:
Filtronic plc £21,548 Appointed 13 July 2006
Remuneration report Directors’ emoluments
Basic salary/fees Taxable benefits
(a)
Bonus Total Pension contributions
(b)
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Name of director £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
Mr P Heiden 530 502 23 48 174 479 727 1,029 265 251
Mr N Bamford
(c)
270 230 19 20 89 219 378 469 – –
Mr R L Gott 273 260 24 24 45 157 342 441 101 96
Non-executive directors
Mr G F Page CBE 135 135 – – – – 135 135 – –
Mr R P Edey 15 37 – – – – 15 37 – –
Sir Michael Hodgkinson 37 34 – – – – 37 34 – –
Mr C L Matthews 35 34 – – – – 35 34 – –
Mr D J Pearl 38 17 – – – – 38 17 – –
Mr R I Case CBE 40 5 – – – – 40 5 – –
Former director
Mr C R N Clark – 32 – – – – – 32 – –
Aggregate emoluments 1,373 1,286 66 92 308 855 1,747 2,233 366 347
(a) Taxable benefits consist of permanent health insurance, company car or car allowances, life assurance and private medical insurance.The reduction in Mr Heiden’s
taxable benefits arises from more life assurance being provided by the Group Pension Scheme and therefore less purchased externally.
Also, Mr Heiden chose to receive a taxable car allowance of £15,000 pa as an alternative to a company car.
(b) Company contributions paid in respect of unapproved retirement benefit schemes.
(c) The Group Finance Director’s salary was increased by 17.4% in 2006.This increase was deemed appropriate in order to continue the progression of his salary
toward the market median salary for the role.
Non-executive directors’ fees
The fees paid to non-executive directors and the Chairman are determined by the Board after reviewing fee payments
for comparable positions within similar organisations, and are normally reviewed every two years.The fee structure for
non-executive directors includes a basic fee of £35,000 and an additional fee of £5,000 for a committee chairmanship.
The basic fee for the senior non-executive director is £38,000.The last review was in March 2006.The Chairman
waived his increase in 2006.
Fees for Mr R I Case are paid to Melchester Associates Ltd at his request.
47 FKI plc Remuneration report 48 FKI plc
Directors’ pension benefits
The under noted directors were members of a defined benefit scheme provided by the Group during the year.
Mr P Heiden is responsible for his own pension provision. Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values 
were as follows during the year:
Transfer value
of increase
in accrued
benefit Increase in
Increase in (excluding Transfer Transfer transfer
accrued inflation) less Accrued Accrued value of value of value less
pension contributions pension at pension at pension at pension at contributions
(excluding made by 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March made by
inflation) directors 2007 2006 2007 2006 directors
Name of director £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Mr R L Gott 1.6 20.9 23.8 21.4 284.6 249.3 27.7
Mr N Bamford 14.2 176.3 72.6 56.4 796.9 594.4 185.7
Note: In addition to the accrued pension shown in the table, Mr Gott will receive a fixed pension of £24,400 from age 65 in respect of a transfer value paid into the
Scheme.The value of this pension is excluded from the transfer values shown.
(1) The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
(2) The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
(3) The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, although no adjustment has been
made for any under funding of the Scheme.The calculation of each transfer value includes an allowance for the cost of death before retirement benefits.
(4) The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year is impacted by the following elements:
a. the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension (net of inflation);
b. the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension (due to inflation);
c. the increase in the transfer value of accrued pension at the beginning of the year due to ageing;
d. the change to the transfer value basis methodology;
e. the impact of any change in the economic or mortality assumptions underlying the transfer value basis;
f. the effect of a. to e. less the director’s own contributions over the year.
The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the
Company and directors, such as stock market movements which are reflected in e. and the change in method in d. above.
(5) Directors have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions. However, neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table.
(6) Mr Gott’s UK pension scheme benefits are subject to an earnings cap (formerly the Inland Revenue’s earnings cap). In addition, Mr Gott is being paid 
a supplement of 37% pa of salary (plus an extra £45,000 pa until April 2008) to provide further pension benefits on a defined contribution basis.
Directors’ share options
Exercise
At Granted Exercised Lapsed At price Date
1April during during during 31 March per share exercisable
Date of grant 2006 the year the year the year 2007 Pence from Expiry date
P Heiden
Executive share option 06/01/03 1,022,727 – – – 1,022,727 88.00 06/01/06 06/01/13
Executive share option 02/02/04 772,532 – – – 772,532 116.50 02/02/07 02/02/14
Executive share option 26/08/05 850,024 – – – 850,024 103.35 26/08/08 26/08/15
Executive share option 02/08/06 – 944,982 – – 944,982 98.15 02/08/09 02/08/16
Savings related option 01/11/04 9,592 ––– 9,592 98.25 n/a n/a
N Bamford
Executive share option 04/12/01 36,140 – – – 36,140 186.75 04/12/04 04/12/11
Executive share option 08/07/02 48,214 – – – 48,214 140.00 08/07/05 08/07/12
Executive share option 06/06/03 141,234 – – – 141,234 77.00 06/06/06 06/06/13
Executive share option 11/06/04 250,000 – – – 250,000 115.75 11/06/07 11/06/14
Executive share option 26/08/05 333,817 – – – 333,817 103.35 26/08/08 26/08/15
Executive share option 02/08/06 – 412,633 – – 412,633 98.15 02/08/09 02/08/16
Savings related option 23/07/03 26,541 – – – 26,541 60.00 n/a n/a
Remuneration report 49 FKI plc Remuneration report
Directors’ share options (continued)
Exercise
At Granted Exercised Lapsed At price Date
1April during during during 31 March per share exercisable
Date of grant 2006 the year the year the year 2007 Pence from Expiry date
R L Gott
Executive share option 22/07/97 50,000 – – – 50,000 166.00 22/07/00 22/07/07
Executive share option 09/12/97 50,000 – – – 50,000 182.50 09/12/00 09/12/07
Executive share option 09/08/99 30,000 – – – 30,000 218.00 09/08/02 09/08/09
Executive share option 04/12/01 35,340 – – – 35,340 186.75 04/12/04 04/12/11
Executive share option 08/07/02 125,000 – – – 125,000 140.00 08/07/05 08/07/12
Executive share option 06/06/03 409,091 – – – 409,091 77.00 06/06/06 06/06/13
Executive share option 11/06/04 300,000 – – – 300,000 115.75 11/06/07 11/06/14
Executive share option 26/08/05 373,004 – – – 373,004 103.35 26/08/08 26/08/15
Executive share option 02/08/06 – 417,218 – – 417,218 98.15 02/08/09 02/08/16
Savings related option 23/07/03 15,416 – 15,416 – – 60.00 n/a n/a
Notes:
(1) All executive share options granted in 2006 were granted under the rules of the 2005 LTIP approved by shareholders in July 2005 and were at nil cost to the
director concerned.
(2) The market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2007 was 116.25p (2006: 126p) and the range during the year was 88p to 124p.
(3) All executive share options granted in 1997 and subsequent years are exercisable from the dates stated above, subject to them satisfying the performance conditions
stated in the policy section.
(4) Executive Share Options granted in June 2004 under the former scheme were not subject to retesting.
(5) Share options granted in 2006 vest on a different scale compared with options granted prior to 2006. Details of the vesting scales for both new and former options
are shown in the policy section.
(6) Mr Gott exercised the savings related options at 60.0p per share and has retained beneficial ownership of these shares.
Directors’ LTIPs
Shares Value Shares Cash
allocated Shares of award allocated Market awarded
at Shares Shares lapsed Shares at date at Performance Earliest value in lieu of 
1 April allocated vested during year transferred of grant 31 March period date for (Note 2) dividends
Date of award 2006 during year during year (Note 1) during year £ 2007 end date transfer £ £
P Heiden
09/06/03 409,091 – – 409,091 – 342,614 – n/a n/a n/a –
11/06/04 292,095 – – – – 338,100 292,095 11/06/07 11/06/07 339,560 –
26/08/05 485,728 – – – – 510,014 485,728 26/08/08 26/08/08 564,659 –
02/08/06 – 539,989 – – – 529,999 539,989 02/08/09 02/08/09 627,737 –
N Bamford
12/08/99 8,616 – – – 8,616 55,000 – n/a n/a n/a –
09/06/03 65,909 – – 65,909 – 55,198 – n/a n/a n/a –
11/06/04 120,950 – – – – 140,000 120,950 11/06/07 11/06/07 140,604 –
26/08/05 222,545 – – – – 233,672 222,545 26/08/08 26/08/08 258,709 –
02/08/06 – 275,089 – – – 270,000 275,089 02/08/09 02/08/09 319,791 –
R L Gott
09/06/03 190,909 – – 190,909 – 159,886 – n/a n/a n/a –
11/06/04 151,188 – – – – 175,000 151,188 11/06/07 11/06/07 175,756 –
26/08/05 248,670 – – – – 261,102 248,670 26/08/08 26/08/08 289,079 –
02/08/06 – 278,145 – – – 272,999 278,145 02/08/09 02/08/09 323,344 –
The price of an ordinary share on 2 August 2006, being the date that awards were made during the year was 98.00p.
The awards are subject to the performance conditions for LTIP awards, as outlined in the policy section.
Performance shares granted in 2006 vest on a different scale compared with shares granted in the former LTIP prior 
to 2005. Details of vesting scales can be found on page 43.
Notes:
(1) The Company’s Total Shareholder Return performance for the three-year performance period that ended in March 2007 ranked below median compared against
its comparator group. Under the terms of the rules applicable to the 2003 awards, 100% of the awards lapsed.
(2) The market value of shares as yet unvested is stated at 116.25p per share, being the closing mid-market price on 31 March 2007. If the ranking position of the
award made in 2004 were to be maintained until the end of the respective performance period, the awards granted in 2004 would not vest.
(3) The performance period end date for the LTIP award commencing on 11 June 2004 was previously incorrectly stated as 2 June 2007.This has now been amended
to 11 June 2007 which corresponds with the three-year performance period as set out in the rules of the Plan. 50 FKI plc
Directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of FKI plc
As at As at
31 March 1 April
2007 2006 or
subsequent 
date of
appointment
Ordinary Ordinary
Name of director shares shares
G F Page 60,000 25,000
N Bamford
(1)
115,440 66,872
R P Edey 6,250 6,250
R L Gott
(1)
67,016 23,098
P Heiden
(1)
297,209 210,000
Sir Michael Hodgkinson 5,370 5,370
C L Matthews – –
D J Pearl – –
R I Case 10,000 10,000
(1) The beneficial interests for executive directors includes invested shares purchased from their deferred bonus in 2006 which are being held in trust.
Any ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements under the current or former LTIP are provided by the FKI Employee
Benefit Trusts.As beneficiaries under the Employee Benefit Trusts, the directors are deemed to be interested in the shares
held by the Employee Benefit Trusts which, at 31 March 2007, amounted to 1,788,782 FKI plc ordinary shares.
Auditable information
The information in the Remuneration report subject to audit is that included in the tables and related notes in the
section on directors’ emoluments, directors’ LTIPs, directors’ share options and directors’ pension benefits.
By order of the Board
R I Case CBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
15 June 2007
Remuneration report We have audited the Group financial statements of FKI plc
for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise 
the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated
balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement,
the Consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense and the related notes 1 to 42.These Group
financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company
financial statements of FKI plc for the year ended
31 March 2007 and on the information in the
Remuneration report that is described as having 
been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies
Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that 
we might state to the Company’s members those matters
we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and
for no other purpose.To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual
Report and the Group financial statements in accordance
with applicable United Kingdom law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by
the European Union are set out in the Statement of
directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial
statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the 
Group financial statements give a true and fair view and
whether the Group financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the
Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors’ report includes
that specific information presented in the Operating and
financial review that is cross referred from the Business
review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have
not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is
not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance
statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the 
nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for
our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not.We are not required
to consider whether the board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the 
Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent 
with the audited Group financial statements.The other
information comprises only the Chairman’s statement,
the Operating and financial review, the Corporate social
responsibility review, the Corporate governance statement,
the Directors’ report, and the unaudited part of the
directors’ Remuneration report.We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 
the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do 
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board.An audit includes examination,
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all
the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence 
to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 
of the presentation of information in the Group 
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Group financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March
2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
– the Group financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
– the information given in the Directors’ report is
consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor
London
15 June 2007
51 FKI plc
Independent auditor’s report to the members of FKI plc 52 FKI plc
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Note £m £m
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Revenue 4,5 1,330.9 1,273.4
Cost of Sales (1,024.9) (978.7)
Gross profit 306.0 294.7
Operating expenses 6 (205.4) (194.7)
Operating profit before special items 5 100.6 100.0
Loss on sale of operations 10 (2.7) (4.3)
Reorganisation, closures and impairments 11 (12.0) (0.2)
Profit on sale of property 5.2 4.1
Profit from continuing operations before taxation and finance costs 91.1 99.6
Share of post tax results of associates 0.2 0.3
Finance costs 12 (36.8) (34.2)
Finance income 12 10.8 4.8
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 65.3 70.5
Taxation 13
– UK 0.4 –
– Overseas (17.5) (17.8)
(17.1) (17.8)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 48.2 52.7
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations 14 (1.6) 41.3
Profit for the year 7 46.6 94.0
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 46.4 93.8
Minority interest 0.2 0.2
46.6 94.0
Earnings per share 16 pence pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 8.2 9.0
– discontinued operations (0.3) 7.1
7.9 16.1
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 8.2 9.0
– discontinued operations (0.3) 7.0
7.9 16.0
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 226.1 247.4
Goodwill 18 375.1 407.5
Intangible assets 19 1.6 2.1
Investments in associates 20 0.7 0.7
Other receivables 23 5.0 5.2
Deferred tax assets 31 46.6 62.5
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assets 33 9.6 7.5
Derivative financial assets 28 48.4 27.5
713.1 760.4
Current assets
Inventories 21 191.8 182.7
Trade and other receivables 23 326.0 296.5
Cash and short-term deposits 24 125.5 237.1
Current tax recoverable 0.3 3.6
Derivative financial assets 28 3.2 0.6
646.8 720.5
Assets classified as held for sale 30 – 7.0
Total assets 1,359.9 1,487.9
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 27 (462.5) (503.4)
Trade and other payables 26 (5.7) (7.5)
Provisions 29 (21.0) (21.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 31 (35.1) (34.2)
Pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations 33 (118.4) (163.5)
Derivative financial liabilities 28 (19.6) (18.2)
(662.3) (747.9)
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 27 (23.4) (45.8)
Trade and other payables 25 (350.4) (352.5)
Provisions 29 (7.0) (6.4)
Corporation tax and overseas tax (35.4) (65.4)
Derivative financial liabilities 28 (1.5) (1.1)
(417.7) (471.2)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 30 – (6.8)
Total liabilities (1,080.0) (1,225.9)
Net assets 279.9 262.0
53 FKI plc
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2007 54 FKI plc
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Equity
Share capital 34,36 58.8 58.4
Share premium account 36 159.1 156.4
Capital redemption reserve 36 2.0 2.0
Own shares 36 (2.4) (2.6)
Share-based payments accrual 36 3.6 4.5
Exchange reserve 36 (9.7) 6.6
Hedging reserve 36 1.0 (0.2)
Retained earnings 36 66.3 35.8
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 278.7 260.9
Minority interest 36 1.2 1.1
Total equity 36 279.9 262.0
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 June 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
P Heiden – Director
N Bamford – Director
Consolidated balance sheet (continued)
As at 31 March 2007
Consolidated balance sheet Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities 38 38.6 122.6
Interest paid (41.1) (40.1)
Interest received 4.6 3.8
Taxation paid (16.2) (17.0)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities (14.1) 69.3
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (33.6) (25.5)
Purchase of intangible assets (0.7) (0.7)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 20.3 12.4
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired (6.0) (4.5)
Taxation paid relating to disposal of businesses in prior year (19.6) –
Proceeds from disposal of businesses 8.4 84.9
Net cash disposed with businesses – (1.8)
Payment of deferred purchase consideration (0.4) (0.6)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (31.6) 64.2
Cash flows from financing activities
Received from sale of interest rate swaps – 23.6
Dividends paid (26.3) (26.3)
Repayment of loans (43.2) (61.0)
New loans 16.9 –
Proceeds from issue of share capital 3.1 0.6
Net cash outflow from financing activities (49.5) (63.1)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (95.2) 70.4
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 235.7 155.7
140.5 226.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (15.2) 9.6
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 24 125.3 235.7
55 FKI plc
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2007 56 FKI plc
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit for the year 46.6 94.0
(Expenses)/income not recognised in the income statement:
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pensions and other post-retirement benefits 21.8 8.8
Taxation on actuarial gain on defined benefit pensions and other post-retirement benefits (13.5) (7.4)
Currency translation differences arising in the year (16.3) 11.4
Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 1.6 (0.7)
Taxation on net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges (0.4) –
Total recognised income and expense for the year 39.8 106.1
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – (5.0)
Total recognised income/(expense) 39.8 101.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 39.6 100.9
Minority interest 0.2 0.2
39.8 101.1
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
For the year ended 31 March 2007 1) General information
FKI plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.The Company’s ordinary 
shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.The consolidated financial statements comprise the Company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”).
The financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds
except where otherwise indicated.
2) Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs), as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these
are presented in a separate section of this report on pages 107 to 120.
3) Significant accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation
The policies set out below have been consistently applied.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 have been prepared on the historic cost basis except for
derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and available for sale financial assets which have
been measured at fair value.The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record
changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for
sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less estimated costs to sell.
(b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of FKI plc and its subsidiaries as at 
31 March each year, together with the Group’s share of the results of associates using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, are
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The results of companies acquired or disposed of during the year are included from or up to the date on which control
is transferred to or out of the Group respectively.
(c) Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and
operating policies.The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised gains and 
losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that
significant influence ceases.When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group’s carrying
amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
(d) Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the
income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency
are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values
were determined.
Exchange gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in 
a foreign entity are taken directly to reserves to the extent that they can be offset against the exchange differences 
arising on the equity investments.
57 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
  58 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(d) Foreign currency translation (continued)
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments, of overseas subsidiary and
associated undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.The income
and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year, with the year end adjustment to closing rates being taken to equity. Differences on exchange
arising from the re-translation at year end rates of the net investment in overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings
at the beginning of the year are taken to equity.All other exchange differences are dealt with in the determination of
profit for the financial year.
Exchange adjustments arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of related hedges 
are taken to translation reserves in equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised 
in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss
on disposal.The Group has adopted the exemption allowing these cumulative translation differences to be reset 
to zero at the transition date (1 April 2004) to IFRS.
(e) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for any impairment in
value. Depreciation is calculated on all assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less
estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Long leasehold property 50 years
Short leasehold property over the lease term
Plant and machinery – heavy production 15 years
– other 10 years
Office equipment 5 to 10 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate
items of property, plant and equipment.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales
proceeds, less costs of disposal, and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
(f) Goodwill
Goodwill on business acquisitions is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination
over the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following
initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 31 March 2004 is not amortised and goodwill arising on acquisition before the date of
transition to IFRS (which was 1 April 2004), is not amortised after that date. Goodwill existing at the date of transition
to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts as the Group has elected not to restate business
combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may be impaired.
Negative goodwill arising on any acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement. 3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(g) Intangible assets
(i) Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is capitalised when
its future recoverability can reasonably be regarded as assured. Following the initial recognition of the development
expenditure, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and
accumulated impairment losses.Any expenditure capitalised is amortised over the lesser of the useful life of the project
or three years.
(ii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment
losses.
Intangible assets including those arising from a business combination are amortised over their remaining useful lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, unless
such lives are indefinite.The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Computer software – 3 years
(h) Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a
sale transaction rather than through continuing use.This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is
highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management
must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year
from the date of classification.
(i) Leases
Assets obtained under leases and hire purchase contracts which result in the transfer to the Group of substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership (finance leases) are capitalised at the estimated present value of underlying lease payments
and are depreciated over their expected useful lives.The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as
liabilities whilst the finance elements of the rental payments are charged to the income statement over the period of the
lease or hire purchase contract so as to produce a constant rate of charge on the outstanding balance of the net
obligation in each period.
Rentals paid under other leases (operating leases) are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the
lease term.
(j) Impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).Where the
asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of
the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value, less costs to sell, and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessment of the time value of money, and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows
have not been adjusted.
59 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 60 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(j) Impairment (continued)
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is
reduced to its recoverable amount.An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset
is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have
been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal
of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
(k) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, on a first-in first-out basis, and net realisable value after making due allowance
for any obsolete or slow moving inventory. Cost comprises direct materials and labour and an appropriate proportion 
of manufacturing overheads, based on normal levels of activity.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs
necessary to make the sale.
(l) Construction contracts
Revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract. Stage of completion is
determined by the costs incurred to date to the extent that such costs represent progress made on the project.
Cost comprises direct materials and labour and an appropriate proportion of manufacturing overheads based on 
normal levels of activity.
The Group presents as an asset the gross amount due from construction contract customers, for all contracts in 
progress for which costs incurred plus recognised profits less provisions for foreseeable losses exceeds progress billings.
Progress billings not yet paid by customers and retentions are included within trade and other receivables.
The Group presents as a liability the gross amount due to construction contract customers for all contracts in progress
for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits, less recognised foreseeable losses.
(m) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be
made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(n) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension schemes
Pension costs for the Group’s defined contribution pension schemes are recognised within operating profit at an amount
equal to the contributions payable to the scheme for the period.Any prepaid or outstanding contributions at the balance
sheet date are recognised respectively as assets or liabilities within prepayments or accruals. 3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(n) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
(ii) Defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits
Pension liabilities are measured at their present value in accordance with actuarial assumptions that are updated at 
each balance sheet date. Pension assets are measured at fair value.The pension liability or asset is recognised in the
balance sheet.
Pension costs for the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits are recognised 
as follows:
(a)Within operating profit
• The current service cost arising from employee service in the current period;
• The prior service cost related to employee service in prior periods arising in the current period as a result 
of improvements to benefits;
• Gains and losses arising on unanticipated settlements or curtailments where the item that gave rise to the settlement
or curtailment is recognised within operating profit.
(b)Within other finance cost or income
• The interest cost on the liabilities, calculated by reference to the scheme liabilities and discount rate at the beginning
of the period.
• The expected return on assets, calculated by reference to the assets and their long-term expected rate of return 
at the beginning of the period;
(c)Within the statement of recognised income and expense
• On the scheme assets – the difference between the expected and actual return on assets;
• On the scheme liabilities – (a) the differences between the actuarial assumptions and actual experience,
and (b) the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions.
(o) Share-based payment transactions
Certain employees (including directors) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (“equity-settled
transactions”).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which
they are granted.The fair value is determined by an external valuation. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account
is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of FKI plc (“market
conditions”).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period 
in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully
entitled to the award (“vesting date”).The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each
reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of
awards at that date based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a
market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided
that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had 
not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the
modification, as measured at the date of modification.
61 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 62 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(o) Share-based payment transactions (continued)
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense
not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled
award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated 
as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings 
per share.
The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable
options to executives and senior employees. Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are presented in the
balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has
applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 
1 April 2004.
(p) Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable 
for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts,VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer.
Revenue from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on construction
contracts.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference
to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the 
total services to be provided. Revenue from services provided on a short-term basis is recognised when the service 
is complete.
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues (using the effective interest method that discounts estimated future
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument) to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
(q) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising
from operational, financial and investment activities.The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition they are stated at fair
value.The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. However, where
derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item
being hedged.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by reference to current forward exchange rates for
contracts with similar maturity profiles.The fair value of interest rate and cross currency swap contracts is determined 
by reference to the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to
changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability
in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly
probable forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges (eg: interest rate swaps) which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss
from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.Any gain or
loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the
hedged item and recognised in the income statement.Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged
interest-bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised
by maturity. 3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(q) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued)
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows and which meet the conditions for
hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge
is recognised directly to equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in net profit or loss.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or
liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the
initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that
do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred 
to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for
example when the future sale actually occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting.At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised
in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur,
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
(r) Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid, or recovered,
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, on all temporary differences, subject to the exceptions noted
below, at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial
reporting purposes.
Deferred tax in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries is not
recognised where the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not
reverse in the foreseeable future or in the case of assets, taxable profit will be unavailable against which the temporary
differences, can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carried forward unused tax assets and unused
tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences, and carried forward unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which it is anticipated that the asset
will be realised or the liability will be settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date.
(s) Investments
All investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and the costs of
acquisition.
After initial recognition, investments which are classified as held for trading or available for sale, are measured at fair
value. Gains or losses on investments held for trading are recognised in income. Gains or losses on available for sale
investments are recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is sold or is determined to be
impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement.
Investments classified as held to maturity are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition, over the period to maturity.
For investments carried at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments
are derecognised or impaired.
The fair values of quoted investments are determined by reference to current bid prices. For investments for which 
there is no quoted market price, fair value is determined by reference either to the current market value of another
instrument which is substantially the same or is calculated based on the expected cash flows of the underlying net asset
base of the investment.
63 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 64 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(t) Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs
associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or
premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through
the amortisation process.
(u) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a major qualifying asset,
are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset if the costs are significant and a significant period of time is required to
complete the asset. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
(v) Standards and interpretations not yet applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date 
after the date of these financial statements which are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 April 2007 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted.The effective date quoted below relates to
the annual period beginning on or after:
International Accounting Standards Board (IAS/IFRSs)
Effective date
Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements – capital disclosures 1 January 2007
Amendment to IAS 23: Borrowing costs 1 January 2009
IFRS 7: Financial instruments – disclosures 1 January 2007
IFRS 8: Operating segments 1 January 2009
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006
IFRIC 9: Reassessment of embedded derivatives 1 June 2006
IFRIC 10: Interim financial reporting and impairment 1 November 2006
IFRIC 11: IFRS 2: Group and treasury share transactions 1 March 2007
IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements 1 January 2008
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact 
on the Group’s financial statements in the periods of initial application commencing on or after 1 April 2007. 3) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(w) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
In applying the above accounting policies, management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in a number of
areas.The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant risk of causing material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
Post-retirement benefits
The determination of the pension and other post-retirement benefits cost and obligation is based on assumptions
determined with independent actuarial advice.The assumptions include discount rate, inflation, pension and salary
increases, expected return on scheme assets, mortality and other demographic assumptions.
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to
which goodwill has been allocated.The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected 
to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Deferred income tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised
which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.The Group recognises deferred tax assets where
it is more likely than not that the benefit will be realised.
4) Revenue
Revenue of continuing operations disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Sale of goods 917.0 862.4
Rendering of services 72.0 61.5
Construction contracts 341.9 349.5
1,330.9 1,273.4
5) Segment information
The primary segment reporting format is determined to be business segments as the Group’s risks and rates of return 
are affected predominantly by differences in the products and services provided. Secondary segment information is
reported geographically.
For management purposes the Group is organised into four operating groups:
Lifting Products and Services has a capability in design, manufacture, distribution and servicing of lifting and other
equipment for customers in the industrial, mining, energy, construction, marine and fishing markets.
Energy Technology is a supplier of electrical plant and systems to a wide variety of customers in industry, power
generation and oil and gas supply.
FKI Logistex is a supplier of automated material handling systems to warehouse and retail distribution, freight and
parcel, airport baggage handling and manufacturing sectors around the world.
Hardware has extensive capability in the design, manufacture and distribution of window and door hardware, furniture
hardware, ergonomic equipment and castors for original equipment manufacturers, distributors and retailers.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with 
third parties. Segment revenue and operating profit includes trading between business segments which is eliminated 
on consolidation. Inter segment sales are not material in relation to total Group revenue.
65 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 66 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
5) Segment information (continued)
Business segments
An analysis of revenue, operating profit before special items from continuing operations and certain assets and liabilities
information by operating group is given below.
The contribution from acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2007 was revenue of £14.5 million and operating profit
of £2.6 million.The acquisition related to Energy T echnology. For the year ended 31 March 2006 the contribution from
acquisitions which related to Lifting Products and Services was revenue £9.4 million and operating profit £1.1 million.
(a) Revenue
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Lifting Products and Services 434.2 393.3
Energy T echnology 344.4 275.0
FKI Logistex 372.6 403.5
Hardware 179.7 201.6
Continuing operations 1,330.9 1,273.4
Discontinued operations 3.0 65.4
Total operations 1,333.9 1,338.8
(b) Operating profit before special items
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Lifting Products and Services 57.7 45.0
Energy T echnology 24.2 21.5
FKI Logistex 14.2 14.6
Hardware 16.7 27.8
Unallocated corporate costs (12.2) (8.9)
Operating profit before special items 100.6 100.0
Loss on sale of operations (2.7) (4.3)
Reorganisation, closures and impairments (12.0) (0.2)
Profit on sale of property 5.2 4.1
Profit from continuing operations before taxation and finance costs 91.1 99.6
Share of post tax results of associates 0.2 0.3
Net finance (costs)/income (26.0) (29.4)
Taxation (17.1) (17.8)
Discontinued operations (1.6) 41.3
Profit for the year 46.6 94.0
The share of post tax results of associates in both the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 relate to 
Energy T echnology . 5) Segment information (continued)
(b) Operating profit before special items (continued)
In the year ended 31 March 2007 reorganisation, closures and impairments were incurred in FKI Logistex of 
£6.2 million and Hardware of £5.8 million. In the year ended 31 March 2006 such costs were incurred in Hardware of
£3.4 million offset by credits in Lifting Products and Services of £3.0 million and Energy T echnology of £0.2 million.
Profits on sale of property arose in the year ended 31 March 2007 in Corporate of £5.3 million offset by losses 
on sale in FKI Logistex of £0.1 million. In the year ended 31 March 2006 profits on the sale of property arose in 
Lifting Products and Services of £4.7 million and Hardware of £0.1 million offset by losses on sale in Energy
Technology of £0.4 million, FKI Logistex of £0.2 million and Corporate of £0.1 million.
The loss on sale of operations in the year ended 31 March 2007 was incurred in Lifting Products and Services of 
£2.4 million and Hardware of £1.4 million offset by a credit of £1.1 million in Corporate relating to prior years’
disposals. In the year ended 31 March 2006 the loss on sale of operations was incurred in FKI Logistex.
(c) Segment assets and liabilities
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2007 2006 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Lifting Products and Services 229.4 (78.7) 232.1 (72.8)
Energy T echnology 266.9 (105.1) 227.8 (85.1)
FKI Logistex 510.4 (109.5) 550.7 (127.4)
Hardware 111.6 (26.2) 122.1 (29.4)
Reporting segments 1,118.3 (319.5) 1,132.7 (314.7)
Corporate 6.8 (52.0) 8.4 (57.7)
Discontinued including held for sale – (7.0) 7.0 (13.2)
1,125.1 (378.5) 1,148.1 (385.6)
The investment in associates in both the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 related to Energy Technology.
(d) Other segment information
An analysis of total additions to tangible fixed assets and intangible fixed assets (“capital expenditure”) and depreciation 
of tangible fixed assets and amortisation of intangible assets (“depreciation”) is provided below.
Year ended Year ended
31 March Year ended 31 March Year ended
2007 31 March 2006 31 March
Capital 2007 Capital 2006 
expenditure Depreciation expenditure Depreciation
£m £m £m £m
Lifting Products and Services 11.8 9.7 8.5 10.1
Energy T echnology 8.2 6.0 8.2 7.1
FKI Logistex 4.3 4.0 3.2 4.6
Hardware 7.8 5.5 4.5 7.4
Reporting segments 32.1 25.2 24.4 29.2
Corporate 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.9
Discontinued operations –– 1.2 1.1
32.6 25.9 26.2 31.2
67 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 68 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
5) Segment information (continued)
(d) Other segment information (continued)
Geographical segments
The following tables present revenue, segment assets and capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets and intangible assets
by geographical segment.
Sales to external customers are based on the geographical location of customers. Segment assets and capital expenditure
are determined by the location of the Group’s assets.
(a) Revenue by geographical location of customer
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
United Kingdom 183.7 161.9
Rest of Europe 308.5 255.4
North America 683.5 716.2
Rest of the World 155.2 139.9
Continuing operations 1,330.9 1,273.4
Discontinued operations 3.0 65.4
1,333.9 1,338.8
(b) Segment assets and total capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2007 2006 2006
Segment Capital Segment Capital
assets expenditure assets expenditure
£m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 246.4 6.8 232.8 6.1
Rest of Europe 306.4 8.3 281.9 7.4
North America 538.9 15.0 597.6 10.6
Rest of the World 33.4 2.5 28.8 0.9
Continuing operations 1,125.1 32.6 1,141.1 25.0
Discontinued operations – – 7.0 1.2
1,125.1 32.6 1,148.1 26.2 5) Segment information (continued)
(b) Segment assets and total capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets (continued)
Reconciliation of segment operating assets to total assets and segment operating liabilities to total liabilities:
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2007 2006 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m£m £m£m
Segment assets/(liabilities) 1,125.1 (378.5) 1,148.1 (385.6)
Investments in associates 0.7 – 0.7 –
Non operating deferred income – (0.1) – (0.1)
Corporation tax and overseas tax 0.3 (35.4) 3.6 (65.4)
Deferred tax 46.6 (35.1) 62.5 (34.2)
Interest receivable/(payable) 0.5 (5.5) 0.3 (7.2)
Pension and other post-retirement benefits 9.6 (118.4) 7.5 (163.5)
Cash and short-term deposits 125.5 – 237.1 –
Derivative financial assets/(liabilities) 51.6 (21.1) 28.1 (19.3)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – (485.9) – (549.2)
Held for sale –– – (1.4)
Total assets/(liabilities) 1,359.9 (1,080.0) 1,487.9 (1,225.9)
The investment in associates in both years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 related to segment assets in Energy
T echnology.
6) Operating expenses – continuing operations
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Distribution and sales costs 104.7 100.1
Administrative costs 100.7 94.6
205.4 194.7
7) Profit for the year
This is stated after charging:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Research and development expense 4.7 7.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 25.0 29.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.9 1.3
Operating lease rentals 12.1 11.6
69 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 70 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
8) Auditors’ remuneration
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Audit of the Company annual financial statements 0.5 0.5
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries – pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.3
1.8 1.8
Other services – audit of the Group pension schemes 0.1 0.1
– taxation services 0.1 0.1
– other services pursuant to legislation – 0.4
– other 0.3 –
0.5 0.6
All fees payable to the Company’s auditors have been charged to the income statement, except for those in relation to
associated pension schemes which are borne by the respective schemes.
9) Staff costs
The average number of persons (including directors) employed by the Group in each of the following categories 
during the year was:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Number Number
Production 9,558 9,599
Distribution and sales 1,179 1,473
Administration and management 1,398 1,335
12,135 12,407
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Wages and salaries 299.0 313.4
Social security and other allied costs 34.7 36.3
Pension costs – defined benefit 10.5 10.5
– defined contribution 8.3 7.8
Other post-retirement benefits – (4.3)
352.5 363.7
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense of share-based payments of £1.4 million (2006: £1.4 million) all of
which arises from transactions accounted for as equity settled share-based payment transactions.
Further information relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in note 33.
The remuneration of the Directors is disclosed in the Remuneration report. 10) Loss on sale of operations – continuing
The pre-tax loss on sale of operations can be analysed as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Loss before tax 3.2 3.8
Exchange previously written off against reserves 0.6 0.5
Relating to prior years’ disposals (1.1) –
2.7 4.3
The operations sold comprised the chain manufacturing businesses in the US and UK and the distribution activities of
Certex Equatorial Guinea which were part of Lifting Products and Services. In addition, part of Wright Products was
sold which was a part of Hardware. In the year ended 31 March 2006 the operation sold was White Systems which was
part of FKI Logistex.
11) Reorganisation, closures and impairments
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Reorganisation and closure costs 12.0 (1.0)
Impairment loss – 4.3
Reversal of impairment – (3.1)
12.0 0.2
The reorganisation costs in the year ended 31 March 2007 relate to the closure and rationalisation of certain continuing
operations within Hardware of £5.8 million and FKI Logistex of £6.2 million.The £1.0 million credit of reorganisation
costs in the year ended 31 March 2006 related to the release of provisions made in previous years no longer required.
The impairment loss during the year ended 31 March 2006 of £4.3 million arose from reducing the carrying value 
of assets of a business operation within Hardware.The impairment review was performed as a result of changes in the
competitive environment.The recoverable amount of the business operation based on its value in use and a discount rate
of 9.2% was applied in the calculation.
The impairment loss was allocated to reduce the carrying amount of assets of the business operation pro rata on the
basis of the carrying amount of each asset as follows:
Year ended
31 March
2006
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.4
Inventory 1.9
4.3
The reversal of the impairment loss during the year ended 31 March 2006 of £3.1 million arose from a business
operation in Lifting Products and Services.The initial impairment was in the year ended 31 March 2004. The reversal
arose because of changes in market conditions.The recoverable amount of the business operation is based on its value in
use and a discount rate of 9.2% was applied in the calculation.
71 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 72 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
12) Finance (costs)/income – continuing operations
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Interest payable on:
– bank loans and overdrafts (3.7) (3.9)
– other loans (28.1) (28.5)
– finance lease charges (0.2) (0.2)
Net finance costs on pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits (3.6) (1.2)
Foreign exchange losses (1.2) (0.4)
Total finance costs (36.8) (34.2)
Interest receivable 4.8 3.5
Fair value gains on financial instruments 6.0 1.3
Total finance income 10.8 4.8
13) Taxation
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Current tax – UK 5.1 8.0
Double taxation relief (5.1) (8.0)
Current tax – overseas 15.5 17.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years:
– UK (0.4) –
– overseas (0.8) –
Total current taxation 14.3 17.2
Deferred tax – UK – –
Deferred tax – overseas 2.8 0.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years:
– overseas – (0.2)
Total taxation on continuing operations 17.1 17.8 13) Taxation (continued)
The tax charge above includes the following with regard to reorganisations, closures and impairments and profit/(loss)
on sale of properties and loss on sale of operations classified as special items within continuing profit.
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
(Credit)/charge (1.4) (0.1)
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on defined 
benefit pensions and other post-retirement benefits and hedged forward foreign exchange contracts of £13.5 million 
and £0.4 million respectively, (2006: charge of £7.4 million) has been charged to equity.
Translation differences on long-term foreign currency loans have been taken to reserves together with a tax credit
thereon of £nil (2006: £nil).
The tax expense in the income statement for the year is lower (2006: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax 
in the UK of 30% (2006: 30%) as explained below:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 65.3 70.5
(Loss)/profit before taxation from discontinued operations (1.6) 8.1
Profit/(loss) before taxation on disposal of discontinued operations – 56.5
63.7 135.1
Taxation on above at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2006: 30%) 19.1 40.5
Effects of:
– non deductible expenses 1.3 0.5
– (lower)/higher tax rates on overseas earnings (2.1) 0.3
– adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior years (1.2) (0.2)
Total tax charge for the year 17.1 41.1
The total tax charge for the year is analysed as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Taxation on continuing operations 17.1 17.8
Taxation on results of discontinued operations in the current year – 3.7
Taxation on the (loss)/gain on disposal and closure of businesses 
included in discontinued operations – 19.6
17.1 41.1
73 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 74 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
14) Discontinued operations
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Post tax (losses)/profits of discontinued operations (0.4) 4.4
Post tax (loss)/gain on disposal of discontinued operations (1.2) 36.9
(1.6) 41.3
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement were 
as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Revenue 3.0 65.4
Expenses (3.4) (57.4)
Finance income/(costs) – 0.1
(Loss)/profit before taxation (0.4) 8.1
Taxation – (3.7)
(Loss)/profit after taxation (0.4) 4.4
The post tax (loss)/gain on the disposal and closure of businesses can be analysed as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
(Loss)/gain before taxation (1.2) 54.3
Taxation – (19.6)
Exchange previously written off against reserves – 2.2
(1.2) 36.9
The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Operating cash flows 0.1 3.7
Investing cash flows – (0.7)
Financing cash flows – –
Net cash inflow 0.1 3.0 14) Discontinued operations (continued)
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operation classified as held for sale are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment – 0.2
Inventories – 2.7
Trade and other receivables – 4.1
Assets classified as held for sale – 7.0
Trade and other payables – (5.4)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – (1.4)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale – (6.8)
Net assets of disposal group held for sale – 0.2
The business held for sale at 31 March 2006 related to Certex Italy SpA (part of Lifting Products and Services) which
was sold on 28 July 2006.
15) Dividends
The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year were:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 3p (2005: 3p) per ordinary share 17.5 17.5
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 1.5p (2006: 1.5p) per ordinary share 8.8 8.8
26.3 26.3
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in accordance
with IFRS has not been included as a liability as at 31 March 2007.This proposed final dividend will be paid on 
5 October 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 7 September 2007.
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 3p (2006: 3p) per ordinary share 17.6 17.5
75 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 76 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
16) Earnings per share
The basic, diluted and adjusted earnings per share are set out below:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
pence pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 8.2 9.0
– discontinued operations (0.3) 7.1
7.9 16.1
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 8.2 9.0
– discontinued operations (0.3) 7.0
7.9 16.0
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 8.7 9.7
Diluted adjusted earnings per ordinary share 8.7 9.6
Basic earnings per ordinary share and diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable
to the equity holders of the Company for the year by respectively the basic weighted ordinary shares in issue during the
year or diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted earnings per share, which provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group, is
calculated by dividing the operating profit/(loss) for the year before special items, (profit/(loss) on sale of businesses,
reorganisations, closures and impairments and profit/(loss) on property sales), profit/(loss) on disposal of discontinued
operations, fair value gains/(losses) on financial instruments and exchange gains/(losses) included within finance costs
and income and taxation related to those items by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
The profit/(loss) for the period until disposal of discontinued operations is included as part of the profit for the year.
Profit attributable to minority interest is excluded from this calculation. 16) Earnings per share (continued)
The calculation of the basic, diluted and adjusted earnings per share is based on the following:
(a) Earnings
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2007 2006 2006
£m pence £m pence
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company for the year:
– continuing operations 48.0 8.2 52.5 9.0
– discontinued operations (1.6) (0.3) 41.3 7.1
– Total operations 46.4 7.9 93.8 16.1
Adjustments:
– Fair value gains on financial instruments included in net finance costs (6.0) (1.0) (1.3) (0.2)
– Foreign exchange losses included in net finance costs 1.2 0.2 0.4 0.1
Add back special items:
– continuing – loss on sale of businesses 2.7 0.5 4.3 0.7
– continuing – reorganisations, closures and impairments 12.0 2.0 0.2 –
– continuing – profit on sale of property (5.2) (0.9) (4.1) (0.7)
– tax on special items (1.4) (0.2) (0.1) –
Discontinued loss/(profit) on disposal of businesses including tax 1.2 0.2 (36.9) (6.3)
Adjusted earnings for the year 50.9 8.7 56.3 9.7
(b) Number of shares
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Number Number 
000s 000s
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic and adjusted 
earnings per share 583,559 582,714
Effect of dilution on exercise of outstanding share options 2,045 3,521
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 585,604 586,235
The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes shares held in trust under the Long Term Incentive Plan until
such time as they vest unconditionally.
77 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 78 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
17) Property, plant and equipment
Long Short Plant,
Freehold leasehold leasehold equipment
property property property and vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2005 202.4 11.7 6.5 508.7 729.3
Exchange 9.3 0.3 0.2 25.3 35.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.7 – 1.2 1.0 2.9
Disposal of subsidiaries – – (2.5) (13.5) (16.0)
Transferred to assets held for sale (0.2) – – (2.5) (2.7)
Additions 3.7 – 0.1 21.7 25.5
Disposals (21.2) (0.3) – (26.6) (48.1)
Reclassifications 1.2 – – (1.2) –
At 31 March 2006 195.9 11.7 5.5 512.9 726.0
Exchange (12.2) (0.3) (0.1) (32.2) (44.8)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – 0.2 0.2
Disposal of subsidiaries (1.9) – – (25.9) (27.8)
Additions 3.5 0.3 – 28.1 31.9
Disposals (9.6) (1.4) (0.2) (31.7) (42.9)
At 31 March 2007 175.7 10.3 5.2 451.4 642.6
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2005 (68.2) (1.1) (5.6) (398.7) (473.6)
Exchange (3.9) – (0.1) (20.1) (24.1)
Disposal of subsidiaries – – 2.0 9.7 11.7
Transferred to assets held for sale 0.2 – – 2.3 2.5
Charge for the year (4.4) (0.3) (0.1) (25.1) (29.9)
Disposals 9.1 0.1 – 24.9 34.1
Impairment loss (1.5) – – (0.9) (2.4)
Reversal of impairment 2.5 – – 0.6 3.1
Reclassifications (0.8) – – 0.8 –
At 31 March 2006 (67.0) (1.3) (3.8) (406.5) (478.6)
Exchange 5.7 – 0.1 26.1 31.9
Disposal of subsidiaries 0.6 – – 23.1 23.7
Charge for the year (3.6) (0.2) (0.1) (21.1) (25.0)
Impairment (0.6) – – (1.5) (2.1)
Disposals 2.3 0.3 0.1 30.9 33.6
At 31 March 2007 (62.6) (1.2) (3.7) (349.0) (416.5)
Net book value at 31 March 2007 113.1 9.1 1.5 102.4 226.1
Net book value at 31 March 2006 128.9 10.4 1.7 106.4 247.4 17) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
The impairment in the year ended 31 March 2007 relates to the closure and restructuring of certain continuing
operations and the associated write down of certain property, plant and equipment.This charge is included in special
items as part of the £12.0 million reorganisation and closure costs.
Details of the impairment loss and reversal of impairment in the year ended 31 March 2006 are given in note 11.
The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes £7.6 million (2006: £8.0 million) in respect
of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
An analysis of the cost of freehold property between land and buildings is shown below:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Land 35.4 38.3
Buildings 140.3 157.6
Cost 175.7 195.9
18) Goodwill
Total
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2005 381.6
Exchange adjustments 26.2
Disposal of subsidiaries 2.8
Transferred to assets held for sale (3.1)
At 31 March 2006 407.5
Exchange adjustments (37.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 4.9
At 31 March 2007 375.1
Impairment losses
At 1 April 2005, 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 –
Net book value at 31 March 2007 375.1
Net book value at 31 March 2006 407.5
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units.A summary of the net book value of
goodwill by business segment is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Lifting Products and Services 3.9 4.0
Energy T echnology 6.0 1.2
FKI Logistex 345.7 380.3
Hardware 19.5 22.0
375.1 407.5
79 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 80 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
18) Goodwill (continued)
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be
impaired. In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the Group compares the carrying value (net assets plus
goodwill) of the cash-generating units (“CGU”) with their recoverable amounts. In all cases the recoverable amounts
have been determined to be the CGUs’ value in use and not their fair value, less costs to sell.Value in use is derived 
from the most recent financial plans for the next three years approved by the Board and extrapolated cash flows
thereafter.The key assumptions are the risk adjusted discount rate, the long-term growth rate and expected changes to
selling prices and direct costs which are based on past experience, expectations of future changes in the market, inflation
and the benefits of identified productivity and cost saving initiatives.The applied pre-tax discount rate, based on a risk
adjusted Group weighted average cost of capital (WACC), is 8.9% (2006: 9.2%) for all CGUs, except Logistex where
11% (2006: 9.2%) has been applied.The applied long-term growth rates are within the range of external industry growth
rates at 1.5–3% (2006: 1.5–3%).
With regard to the assessment of the value in use of the Lifting Products and Services, Hardware and Energy Technology
CGUs, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying
value of any unit to exceed the recoverable amount. For the Logistex CGU, the assessment of recoverable amount
exceeds the carrying amount of goodwill and operating assets by £49 million (2006: £167 million) . It is estimated that
an increase in the discount rate of 1% to 12% or the realisation of less than 76% of the benefits of the productivity and
cost saving initiatives included in the three year plan period would give a value in use equal to the carrying amount.
Management believes that no other reasonably possible change in key assumptions would give a value in use equal to the
carrying amount.
19) Intangible assets
Computer
software
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2005 12.9
Exchange adjustments 0.4
Additions 0.7
Disposals (0.6)
Disposal of subsidiaries (0.2)
At 31 March 2006 13.2
Exchange adjustments (0.5)
Additions 0.7
Disposals (1.0)
At 31 March 2007 12.4
Amortisation
At 1 April 2005 (9.9)
Exchange adjustments (0.2)
Disposals 0.3
Amortisation for the year (1.3)
At 31 March 2006 (11.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.4
Disposals 0.8
Amortisation for the year (0.9)
At 31 March 2007 (10.8)
Net book value at 31 March 2007 1.6
Net book value at 31 March 2006 2.1 20) Investment in associates
The Group has a 26% interest in Mediterranean Power Electric Company Limited which manufactures electrical
distribution switchgear in Malta.
£m
At 1 April 2006 0.7
Share of post tax profits 0.2
Dividends (0.2)
At 31 March 2007 0.7
At 1 April 2005 0.6
Share of post tax profits 0.3
Dividends (0.2)
At 31 March 2006 0.7
21) Inventories
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 57.2 59.2
Work in progress 75.7 64.0
Finished goods 81.8 74.4
214.7 197.6
Payments on account (22.9) (14.9)
191.8 182.7
Write down of inventories 2.4 1.7
Write down of inventories relating to impairment loss (note 11) – 1.9
Reversal of write down of inventories (0.2) (0.4)
Inventories pledged as security – –
22) Construction contracts
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 641.7 762.2
Less progress billings (583.3) (739.3)
58.4 22.9
Amounts due from construction contract customers included in trade and other receivables 84.2 53.1
Amounts due to construction contract customers included in trade and other payables (25.8) (30.2)
58.4 22.9
81 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 82 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
23) Trade and other receivables
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Current assets
Trade receivables 214.4 211.6
Due from construction contract customers (note 22) 84.2 53.1
Other receivables 14.3 20.0
Prepayments and accrued income 13.1 11.8
326.0 296.5
Non current assets
Other receivables 5.0 5.2
24) Cash and short-term deposits
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 73.3 32.3
Short-term deposits 52.2 204.8
125.5 237.1
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 73.3 32.3
Short-term deposits 52.2 204.8
Bank overdrafts (0.2) –
125.3 237.1
Bank overdrafts net of cash included within assets and liabilities held for sale – (1.4)
125.3 235.7
The Group’s Guernsey based captive insurance company is required to maintain a level of assets in support of 
the insurance business underwritten on behalf of the Group.At 31 March 2007 this amounted to £30.0 million 
(2006: £35.2 million) of cash and short-term deposits. Until such time as alternative arrangements are in place the
£30.0 million remains assigned to the captive insurance company. 25) Trade and other payables – current
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade payables 211.3 199.9
Payments received on account 4.8 6.5
Amounts due to construction contract customers (note 22) 25.8 30.2
Other payables 37.0 36.3
Other taxes and social security 11.8 9.8
Accruals and deferred income 59.7 69.8
350.4 352.5
26) Trade and other payables – non-current
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Other payables 3.0 4.2
Accruals and deferred income 2.7 3.3
5.7 7.5
27) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Details of the Group’s exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk are included in note 28.
Non-current Current Total
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Euro 600 million guaranteed Eurobond 417.2 442.2 – – 417.2 442.2
Guaranteed bank borrowings – – 12.7 – 12.7 –
Guaranteed US private placement loan notes 40.8 56.2 8.9 43.8 49.7 100.0
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.5 0.2 1.0 2.0 1.5 2.2
Other borrowings 0.9 0.8 – 0.5 0.9 1.3
Obligations under finance leases 3.1 4.0 0.8 0.9 3.9 4.9
462.5 503.4 23.4 47.2 485.9 550.6
The March 2006 current total figure of £47.2 million includes £1.4 million classified as liabilities held for sale and 
£45.8 million classified as current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet.
The Euro 600 million guaranteed Eurobond matures on 22 February 2010 and bears interest at 6.625%. Costs incurred
in issuing these bonds are amortised over the ten year life of the bond.The remaining unamortised issue costs at 
31 March 2007 are £1.7 million (2006: £2.2 million).The Company has transacted a number of cross-currency swaps
and interest rate swaps to synthetically alter the currency and interest rate obligations of Euro 576 million out of the
Euro 600 million obligation.These cross-currency and interest rate swaps are reported as derivative financial instruments.
83 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 84 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
27) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (continued)
The Eurobond issue is guaranteed by FKI Engineering Limited (formerly named FKI Engineering PLC) and 
FKI Industries Inc.At 31 March 2007 FKI Engineering Limited, whose statutory accounts have been prepared
under UK GAAP , had gross assets of £1,683.8 million (2006: £1,724.6 million), net assets of £1,206.6 million
(2006: £1,228.0 million) and a profit after tax of £68.6 million for the year then ended (2006: £82.0 million).
At 31 March 2007 FKI Industries Inc., whose unaudited special purpose financial statements have been prepared 
under US GAAP , had gross assets of US Dollar 447.5 million (2006: US Dollar 537.3 million), a net liabilities of
US Dollar 166.0 million (2006: US Dollar 204.5 million) and net profit of US Dollar 23.7 million for the year then
ended (2006: US Dollar 74.2 million).FKI plc has represented that it will continue to provide any necessary funding 
and liquidity to enable FKI Industries Inc. to satisfy its obligations, including repayment of third party borrowings.
At 31 March 2007 the guaranteed bank borrowings of US Dollar 25.0 million (2006: nil) were drawn under the
Company’s £150.0 million syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facility maturing on 26 July 2007, being
guaranteed by the Company’s subsidiaries FKI Engineering Limited and FKI Industries Inc. Drawdowns under this
facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 0.5% and 0.7% depending upon the level of the
Company’s debt.
On 5 June 2007 the Company entered into a commitment with a number of relationship banks to provide a 
£120 million revolving credit facility in replacement of the existing £150 million revolving credit facility that matures
on 26 July 2007.This new £120 million facility, which runs until 1 April 2009, will provide working capital funding
during a phase when the Company’s operational performance is expected to benefit from strengthening end-markets
and further strategic re-alignment of the portfolio. It is expected that this will lead to improved financial metrics
allowing the Company to subsequently refinance its maturing debt obligations in a cost-effective manner.
The terms and conditions under the new £120 million facility are very similar to the previous facility, but with some
additional headroom under the financial covenants.
The US Dollar 97.5 million (2006: US Dollar 173.5 million) guaranteed US private placement loan notes are issued 
by the Company’s subsidiary FKI Industries Inc. and guaranteed by the Company.The interest rates and maturities 
on these loan notes are shown below. US Dollar 17.5 million (2006: US Dollar 10 million) of this debt obligation 
has been swapped into other currencies.These cross-currency and interest rate swaps are reported as derivative 
financial instruments.
2007 2006
£m £m
US Dollar 66 million 6.98% loan notes maturing 1 April 2006 – 38.0
US Dollar 10 million 8.27% loan notes maturing 21 October 2006 – 5.8
US Dollar 17.5 million 7.1% loan notes maturing 10 October 2007 8.9 10.1
US Dollar 25 million 7.37% loan notes maturing 1 April 2011 12.7 14.4
US Dollar 55 million 7.75% loan notes maturing 1 April 2016 28.1 31.7
As at 31 March 49.7 100.0
Bank loans and overdrafts are at floating interest rates. Certain of the Company’s bank overdrafts are netted off 
against cash for Group purposes in accordance with the right of set off contained in the banking agreements.
Other loans amounting to £1.3 million (2006: £0.4 million) are secured by fixed and floating charges on a subsidiary
Company’s assets. 27) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (continued)
2007 2006
Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total
£m£m£m £m£m£m
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year (8.9) (14.5) (23.4) (38.5) (8.7) (47.2)
In the second year – (2.3) (2.3) (10.1) (0.8) (10.9)
In the third year (44.4) (373.7) (418.1) – (2.3) (2.3)
In the fourth year – (0.1) (0.1) (60.9) (381.4) (442.3)
In the fifth year (12.8) (0.1) (12.9) – (0.9) (0.9)
After five years (28.9) (0.2) (29.1) (47.0) – (47.0)
(95.0) (390.9) (485.9) (156.5) (394.1) (550.6)
Less repayable within one year 8.9 14.5 23.4 38.5 8.7 47.2
Amount repayable in more than one year (86.1) (376.4) (462.5) (118.0) (385.4) (503.4)
28) Derivative financial instruments
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Net Net
Derivative Derivative derivative Derivative Derivative derivative
financial financial financial financial financial financial
assets liabilities instruments assets liabilities instruments
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial instruments – non-current
Cash flow hedges – (0.4) (0.4) – ––
Fair value hedges – (13.9) (13.9) 3.4 (1.0) 2.4
Net investment hedges 47.2 (5.3) 41.9 22.6 (16.7) 5.9
Other hedges 1.2 – 1.2 1.5 (0.5) 1.0
48.4 (19.6) 28.8 27.5 (18.2) 9.3
Derivative financial instruments – current
Interest rate swaps – other hedges 0.2 – 0.2 –––
Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.0 (1.5) 1.5 0.6 (1.1) (0.5)
3.2 (1.5) 1.7 0.6 (1.1) (0.5)
51.6 (21.1) 30.5 28.1 (19.3) 8.8
The Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 April 2005. On this date a number of derivative financial
instruments held by the Group qualified as effective cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges.
85 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 86 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
28) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Cash flow hedges
At 31 March 2007 the Company held two cross-currency swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges.These swaps
hedge the cash flow variability arising on movements in the Euro: Sterling exchange rate and protect Euro 30 million 
of the Euro 600 million Eurobond.The terms of the contracts are:
Currency Principal Maturity Interest rate
Cross-currency swaps
FKI pays Sterling 20.7 million 22 February 2010 8% fixed, payable semi-annually
FKI receives Euro 30.0 million 22 February 2010 6.625% fixed, receivable annually
There have been no changes in the above swaps during the course of the year.
At 31 March 2007 the Company held 12 copper swap contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. These contracts
lock the Company into fixed copper prices which help protect it against fluctuations in the market price of copper.
The terms of these contracts are:
Commodity Total quantity Maturity Pricing
Commodity swaps
FKI pays Copper 2,550 tonnes 31 March 2008 Month-end settlements
at fixed prices averaging
US Dollars 5,773 per tonne
FKI receives Copper 2,550 tonnes 31 March 2008 Month-end settlements at the
average LME price for each month
At 31 March 2007 the Company held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against the risk of
exchange rate fluctuations.Those forward foreign exchange contracts that were accounted for as cash flow hedges are 
set out below:
Currency Principal Maturity Exchange rate
Forward foreign exchange contracts
FKI pays US Dollar 49.3 million Various dates between Various US Dollar: Sterling 
30 August 2007 and exchange rates ranging from
22 February 2009 $1.87 to $1.96
FKI receives Sterling 25.4 million Various dates between Various US Dollar: Sterling 
30 August 2007 and exchange rates ranging from
22 February 2009 $1.87 to $1.96
FKI pays Sterling 10.1 million 5 April 2007 Czech Koruna: Sterling
exchange rate of CZK 41.91
FKI receives Czech Koruna 425.0 million 5 April 2007 Czech Koruna: Sterling
exchange rate of CZK 41.91
There were no forward foreign exchange contracts or commodity swaps accounted for as cash flow hedges in the prior
year ended 31 March 2006. 28) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Fair value hedges
At 31 March 2007 the Company held a number of cross-currency interest rate swaps that were designated as fair 
value hedges.These swaps hedge against changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of Euro 544 million of the 
Euro 600 million fixed rate Eurobond.The terms of the contracts are:
Currency Principal Maturity Interest rate
Cross-currency swaps
FKI pays Sterling 335.3 million 22 February 2010 3 to 6 months LIBOR plus 3%
FKI receives Euro 486.0 million 22 February 2010 6.625% fixed
Interest rate swaps
FKI pays Euro 58.0 million 22 February 2010 3 months EURIBOR plus 3.46%
FKI receives Euro 58.0 million 22 February 2010 6.625% fixed
The above interest rate swaps leave a residual Euro 58.0 million of Euro foreign exchange exposure which the Company
has designated as an effective net investment hedge of its investments in the Eurozone.
There have been no changes in the above swaps during the course of the year.
Net investment hedges
At 31 March 2007 the Company held a number of cross-currency swaps that were designated as net investment hedges
of investments in non-Sterling subsidiary companies.These swaps protect against changes in exchange rates affecting the
Sterling value of subsidiaries that are located in the United States, Canada, Denmark and the Eurozone.The terms of the
contracts are:
Currency Principal Maturity Interest rate basis
Cross-currency swaps – US Dollars
FKI pays US Dollar 363.6 million 22 February 2010 3 to 6 months LIBOR 
plus 3.54% to 4.49%
FKI receives Sterling 224.9 million 22 February 2010 3 to 6 months LIBOR plus 3%
FKI pays US Dollar 29.4 million 22 February 2010 8.51% fixed
FKI receives Sterling 20.7 million 22 February 2010 8% fixed
Cross-currency swaps – Canadian Dollars
FKI pays Canadian Dollar 45.1 million 22 February 2010 3 months CAD BA rate 
plus 3.65%
FKI receives Sterling 19.3 million 22 February 2010 3 months LIBOR plus 3%
Cross-currency swaps – Danish Krone
FKI pays Danish Krone 981.4 million 22 February 2010 6 months CIBOR plus 3.54%
FKI receives Sterling 91.1 million 22 February 2010 6 months LIBOR plus 3%
Cross-currency swaps – Euro
FKI pays Euro 15.0 million 10 October 2007 7.21% fixed
FKI receives Sterling 10.4 million 10 October 2007 8% fixed
There have been no changes in the above swaps during the course of the year.
The Company also holds a number of other interest swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
These LIBOR-in-arrears swaps reduce the Company’s exposure to floating US Dollar interest rates, on a total of 
US Dollars 133.7 million, through a combination of interest rate caps and spreading of reference dates for interest rate
resets. Changes in the fair value of these swaps are booked to profit or loss.There have been no changes in these swaps
during the year.
87 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 88 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
28) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Financial risk management
(a) Fair value of financial instruments
Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction
between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market prices discounted to current value.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing rates
translated at year end exchange rates.
2007 2006
Book Market Book Market
value value value value
£m£m £m£m
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings (23.4) (23.4) (47.1) (47.2)
Long-term portion of long-term borrowings (462.5) (474.2) (503.5) (508.3)
Cash and short-term deposits 125.5 125.5 237.1 237.1
(360.4) (372.1) (313.5) (318.4)
Derivative financial instruments 
Cross-currency swaps 39.4 39.4 19.3 19.3
Interest rate swaps (11.9) (11.9) (10.0) (10.0)
Commodity swaps 1.3 1.3 ––
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.7 1.7 (0.5) (0.5)
30.5 30.5 8.8 8.8
Net financial liabilities (329.9) (341.6) (304.7) (309.6)
Following the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 April 2005, for financial reporting purposes cross-currency swaps,
interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts are shown on the face of the balance sheet as derivative
financial instruments within derivative financial assets or liabilities as appropriate.
(b) Foreign currency risk
The Group operates globally with the majority of its profits outside the UK. It has significant investments outside the
UK with the largest investments being in North America followed by Europe. In order to protect the Group’s balance
sheet and reduce cash flow risk the Group has financed most of its investments in the USA, Canada and Europe by
borrowing in US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros and Danish Krone. Some of this funding is achieved by directly
borrowing the relevant currency whilst some is achieved through cross-currency swaps which can be more efficient 
and reduce costs and credit exposure.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures on committed, and
occasionally forecast, receipts and payments in foreign currencies. 28) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
(c) Interest rate risk
The interest rate profiles of the Group’s borrowings are set out below.The figures are shown after taking into account
the effect of cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps which are used to manage the Group’s net debt and which are
shown separately from borrowings in the Group balance sheet.
Financial liabilities (gross borrowings) Financial assets
Cash and Net financial
Fixed Floating short-term assets/
rate rate Total deposits (liabilities)
£m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – – – 35.4 35.4
US Dollars (55.8) (197.9) (253.7) 45.4 (208.3)
Euro (38.3) (48.6) (86.9) 20.4 (66.5)
Danish Krone (0.9) (92.5) (93.4) 1.8 (91.6)
Canadian Dollars – (20.4) (20.4) 8.1 (12.3)
Other – (1.0) (1.0) 14.4 13.4
As at 31 March 2007 (95.0) (360.4) (455.4) 125.5 (329.9)
Financial liabilities (gross borrowings) Financial assets
Cash and Net financial
Fixed Floating short-term assets/
rate rate Total deposits (liabilities)
£m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – – – 49.5 49.5
US Dollars (101.1) (221.2) (322.3) 134.9 (187.4)
Euro (54.1) (46.6) (100.7) 30.1 (70.6)
Danish Krone (1.3) (93.9) (95.2) 3.2 (92.0)
Canadian Dollars – (23.2) (23.2) 7.5 (15.7)
Other – (0.4) (0.4) 11.9 11.5
As at 31 March 2006 (156.5) (385.3) (541.8) 237.1 (304.7)
89 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 90 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
28) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
(c) Interest rate risk (continued)
The financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the Interbank bid rate of the appropriate
currency less a margin.The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the Interbank offered rate of the appropriate
currency plus a margin.The interest rate profile of the fixed rate financial liabilities is shown below.
2007 2006
Average Average
interest Weighted interest Weighted
Total rate of average Total rate of average
fixed rate fixed rate period for fixed rate fixed rate period for
financial financial which rate financial financial which rate
liabilities liabilities is fixed liabilities liabilities is fixed
£m % Years £m % Years
US Dollars (55.8) 7.9 6.2 (101.1) 7.5 4.5
Euro (38.3) 6.8 2.1 (54.1) 6.8 3.0
Danish Krone (0.9) – 5.0 (1.3) 0.9 3.6
As at 31 March (95.0) 7.4 4.9 (156.5) 7.2 4.0
(d) Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure sufficient long-term funding and committed borrowing facilities are
in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing requirements.The Group’s borrowings exhibit some seasonal variations
during the year and for that reason the Board requires long-term funding and committed borrowing facilities to always
exceed actual and projected debt figures by at least 10%.At the year end 78% (2006: 78%) of the Group’s committed
facilities were drawn.
Of the £616.9 million (2006: £692.2 million) committed borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn
committed facilities were as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Expiring in less than one year 137.3 –
Expiring in more than one year but no more than two years – 150.0
As at 31 March 137.3 150.0
The Group also has a number of uncommitted loan and overdraft facilities at its disposal. These facilities are lightly used.
29) Provisions
Business Insurance
restructuring and litigation Total
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 3.9 23.6 27.5
Exchange adjustments – (0.2) (0.2)
Utilised (5.3) (3.6) (8.9)
Arising in the year 9.6 – 9.6
At 31 March 2007 8.2 19.8 28.0 29) Provisions (continued)
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 7.0 6.4
Non-current liabilities 21.0 21.1
28.0 27.5
The costs associated with the restructuring provisions for various reorganisations within the Group are supported by
detailed plans and based on previous experience as well as other known factors.With the exception of amounts related
to vacant leasehold properties, the provisions are generally utilised within one to two years.The vacant leasehold
property provisions will be utilised in between one and nine years.
The insurance and litigation provisions represents management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. Due to the inherent
uncertainty of the nature of such liabilities it is difficult to give an indication of the timing of their settlement but
generally this would be between one and ten years.
30) Assets and (liabilities) classified as held for sale
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Assets held for sale
Assets of businesses held for sale – 7.0
Property held for sale – –
Total assets held for sale – 7.0
(Liabilities) directly associated with assets held for sale – (6.8)
Further details of the businesses held for sale, including an analysis of the assets and liabilities, is provided in note 14 to
the financial statements.
31) Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
Asset Liability
£m £m
At 1 April 2005 67.8 (31.4)
Exchange adjustments 2.0 (2.1)
Amount (charged)/credited to income statement (2.4) 1.8
Amount (charged)/credited to the statement of recognised income and expense/direct to equity (4.9) (2.5)
At 1 April 2006 62.5 (34.2)
Exchange adjustments (2.4) 2.3
Amount (charged)/credited to income statement – (2.8)
Amount (charged)/credited to the statement of recognised income and expense/direct to equity (13.5) (0.4)
At 31 March 2007 46.6 (35.1)
91 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 92 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
31) Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Deferred tax liabilities
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Goodwill (15.3) (16.0)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (5.3) (5.4)
Accelerated capital allowances (9.2) (8.4)
Short-term timing differences (4.9) (4.4)
Net gain on cash flow hedge (0.4) –
(35.1) (34.2)
Deferred tax assets
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 38.7 53.9
Accelerated capital allowances 1.9 –
Short-term timing differences (1.1) 0.6
Losses 7.1 8.0
46.6 62.5
At the balance sheet date no deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of certain trading and capital losses as
based on currently available evidence it is considered unlikely that sufficient taxable profits or gains will be generated.
The unrecognised deferred tax asset is £34.9 million (2006: £47.7 million).
Deferred taxation is not provided in respect of liabilities that might arise on the distribution of available overseas reserves
of subsidiary undertakings, except to the extent that the decision to remit such profits has been taken.
Where a liability has not been recognised, it is because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of
the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.At the balance
sheet date the aggregate amount of such temporary differences for which deferred tax has not been recognised was
£22.4 million (2006: £18.3 million).
32) Finance and operating leases
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts
The Group leases certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases.These leases have an average duration
of between three and ten years.The majority of the leases are on a fixed repayment basis and where escalation clauses
exist they are linked to LIBOR. No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Not later than one year 0.8 0.9
After one year but not more than five years 3.2 4.2
4.0 5.1
Less finance charges allocated to future periods (0.1) (0.2)
Present value of minimum lease payments 3.9 4.9 32) Finance and operating leases (continued)
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (continued)
The present value of minimum lease payments is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Not later than one year 0.8 0.9
After one year but not more than five years 3.1 4.0
3.9 4.9
Commitments under operating leases
The total future minimum rental payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Not later than one year 10.3 9.6
After one year but not more than five years 27.0 26.7
After five years 19.8 17.5
57.1 53.8
33) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
(a) Defined contribution pension schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of which are held externally to 
the Group in separate trustee administered funds. Contributions to these defined contribution pension schemes in 
the year, which were the same as the amount charged to the income statement, amounted to £8.3 million 
(2006: £7.8 million).
(b) Defined benefit and other post-retirement benefits
The main pension schemes operated by the Group are in the United Kingdom and North America and are defined
benefit in type.These are funded schemes, where the future liabilities for benefits are provided for by the accumulation
of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
The cost of these schemes is determined in accordance with IAS 19 with the advice of independent professionally
qualified actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations using the projected unit method. In line with normal
business practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the United Kingdom and annually in the United States.
These valuations are based on the full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2005, updated at 31 March 2007 by
independent actuaries.
The dates of the most recent full actuarial valuations, on which the amounts in the financial statements are based, were
as follows:
Location Date of valuation
FKI Group Pension Scheme UK 31 December 2005
FKI Industries Inc. Group Pension Plan US 31 December 2005
The Group also operates a number of unfunded post-retirement medical and welfare benefit schemes, principally in the 
United States.
93 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 94 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
33) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
(b) Defined benefit and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 March 2007 are:
Year ended 31 March 2007
North 
UK & ROW American Group 
schemes schemes US Medical Total
£m £m £m £m
Schemes assets at fair value
Equities 175.0 93.5 – 268.5
Bonds 309.8 87.9 – 397.7
Other 15.9 0.7 – 16.6
Fair value of scheme assets 500.7 182.1 – 682.8
Present value of scheme liabilities (585.9) (169.2) (33.2) (788.3)
(85.2) 12.9 (33.2) (105.5)
Limit on recognition of surplus – (3.3) – (3.3)
Net pension (liability)/asset and past service cost not recognised (85.2) 9.6 (33.2) (108.8)
Year ended 31 March 2006
North 
UK & ROW American Group 
schemes schemes US Medical Total
£m £m £m £m
Schemes assets at fair value
Equities 158.3 103.1 – 261.4
Bonds 307.8 96.7 – 404.5
Other 6.2 0.9 – 7.1
Fair value of scheme assets 472.3 200.7 – 673.0
Present value of scheme liabilities (595.6) (190.2) (40.1) (825.9)
(123.3) 10.5 (40.1) (152.9)
Limit on recognition of surplus – (3.0) (0.1) (3.1)
Net pension (liability)/asset and past service cost not recognised (123.3) 7.5 (40.2) (156.0)
During the year the Group sold property valued at £12.5 million on the basis of professional independent valuations to
the fund with a corresponding reduction in the deficit.This resulted in a profit on sale of £5.3 million which has been
disclosed as part of special items (profit on sale of property) in the income statement. 33) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
(b) Defined benefit and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
The amounts recognised in the Group income statement and in the Group statement of recognised income and expense
for the year are analysed as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2007
North 
UK & ROW American Group 
schemes schemes US Medical Total
£m £m £m £m
Recognised in the income statement
Current service cost 7.7 3.4 – 11.1
Past service cost ––––
Gain on settlement (0.6) – – (0.6)
Recognised in arriving at operating profit 7.1 3.4 – 10.5
Expected return on scheme assets (25.3) (12.3) – (37.6)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities 29.2 10.0 2.0 41.2
Other finance costs 3.9 (2.3) 2.0 3.6
Taken to the statement of recognised income and expense
Actual return on scheme assets 17.0 16.2 – 33.2
Expected return on scheme assets (25.3) (12.3) – (37.6)
(8.3) 3.9 – (4.4)
Other actuarial gains and (losses) 24.2 0.3 1.7 26.2
Actuarial gains and (losses) recognised in the statement of 
recognised income and expense 15.9 4.2 1.7 21.8
Year ended 31 March 2006
North 
UK & ROW American Group 
schemes schemes US Medical Total
£m £m £m £m
Recognised in the income statement
Current service cost 7.9 3.7 0.6 12.2
Past service cost – – – –
Gain on settlement (0.7) (0.4) (4.9) (6.0)
Recognised in arriving at operating profit 7.2 3.3 (4.3) 6.2
Expected return on scheme assets (26.5) (13.7) – (40.2)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities 28.4 10.7 2.3 41.4
Other finance costs 1.9 (3.0) 2.3 1.2
Taken to the statement of recognised income and expense
Actual return on scheme assets 78.2 14.8 – 93.0
Expected return on scheme assets (26.5) (13.7) – (40.2)
51.7 1.1 – 52.8
Other actuarial gains and (losses) (41.9) (0.9) (1.2) (44.0)
Actuarial gains and (losses) recognised in the statement of 
recognised income and expense 9.8 0.2 (1.2) 8.8
95 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 96 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
33) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
Pensions
The cost of these schemes is determined in accordance with IAS 19 with the advice of independent professionally
qualified actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations, using the projected unit method. In line with normal
business practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the United Kingdom and annually in the United States.
Both the FKI Group Pension Scheme and the main FKI Industries Inc. Group Pension Plan are now closed to new
members and therefore under the projected unit method the current service costs would be expected to increase as the
members of the scheme approach retirement.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates and overall expected rates of return
are established by applying published brokers forecasts to each category of the scheme.
Group Group
UK & ROW North America
2007 2006 2007 2006
% % % %
Main assumptions:
Rate of salary increases 4.2 4.0 3.5 3.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.5 2.5 – –
Discount rate 5.4 5.0 6.0 6.0
Expected rates of return on scheme assets:
Equities 7.7 7.3 9.1 9.4
Bonds 4.9 4.3 5.6 5.3
Other 6.4 4.5 4.8 3.8
Inflation assumption 3.2 3.0 2.8 2.8
2007 2006 2007 2006
years years years years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 19.1 18.3 17.9 17.9
Current pensioners at 65 – female 20.7 21.2 21.3 21.3
Future pensioners at 65 – male 19.8 19.3 17.9 17.9
Future pensioners at 65 – female 21.4 22.2 21.3 21.3
2007 2006 2007 2006
% % % %
Rate of increase in healthcare costs n/a n/a 10.0
(1)
10.0
(2)
(1) Decreasing to 5% in 2012 and thereafter.
(2) Decreasing to 5% in 2011 and thereafter.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The “current” disclosures above
relate to assumptions based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date.
A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following effects:
Increase Decrease
£000 £000
Effect on aggregate service cost and interest cost 149 (131)
Effect on defined benefit obligation 2,112 (1,867) 97 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
33) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
Pensions (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
North 
UK & ROW American Group 
schemes schemes US Medical Total
£m £m £m £m
As at 1 April 2005 538.8 179.8 39.9 758.5
Current service cost 7.9 3.7 0.6 12.2
Past service cost – – – –
Curtailment 0.2 (9.5) (4.4) (13.7)
Interest cost 28.4 10.7 2.3 41.4
Contributions by plan participants 2.7 – – 2.7
Benefits paid (24.3) (12.8) (3.4) (40.5)
Actuarial (gains) and losses 41.9 0.9 1.2 44.0
Foreign currency differences – 17.4 3.9 21.3
As at 31 March 2006 595.6 190.2 40.1 825.9
Current service cost 7.7 3.4 – 11.1
Past service cost – – – –
Curtailment (0.6) – – (0.6)
Interest cost 29.2 10.0 2.0 41.2
Contributions by plan participants 2.5 – – 2.5
Benefits paid (24.0) (11.9) (2.5) (38.4)
Actuarial (gains) and losses (24.2) (0.3) (1.7) (26.2)
Foreign currency differences (0.3) (22.2) (4.7) (27.2)
As at 31 March 2007 585.9 169.2 33.2 788.3
The defined benefit obligation comprises £788.3 million (2006: £825.9 million) arising from plans that are wholly or 
partly funded. 98 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
33) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
Pensions (continued)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows:
North 
UK & ROW American Group 
schemes schemes Total
£m £m £m
As at 1 April 2005 395.4 189.8 585.2
Expected return on plan assets 26.5 13.7 40.2
Employer contributions 20.3 0.3 20.6
Contributions by plan participants 2.7 – 2.7
Benefits paid (24.3) (12.8) (37.1)
Actuarial gains 51.7 1.1 52.8
Disposal divesture – (8.8) (8.8)
Foreign currency differences – 17.4 17.4
As at 31 March 2006 472.3 200.7 673.0
Expected return on plan assets 25.3 12.3 37.6
Employer contributions 32.9 0.3 33.2
Contributions by plan participants 2.5 – 2.5
Benefits paid (24.0) (11.9) (35.9)
Actuarial gains/(losses) (8.3) 3.9 (4.4)
Disposal divesture – – –
Foreign currency differences – (23.2) (23.2)
As at 31 March 2007 500.7 182.1 682.8
History of experience gains and losses:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
UK Pensions
Fair value of scheme assets 500.7 472.3 395.4
Present value of defined benefit obligation (585.9) (595.6) (538.8)
Deficit in the scheme (85.2) (123.3) (143.4)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 24.2 (41.9) (8.8)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets (8.3) 51.7 (12.3)
North American Pensions
Fair value of scheme assets 182.1 200.7 189.8
Present value of defined benefit obligation (169.2) (190.2) (179.8)
Surplus in the scheme 12.9 10.5 10.0
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.3 (0.9) 1.0
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 3.9 1.1 (6.8)
US Medical
Present value of defined benefit obligation (33.2) (40.1) (39.9)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 1.7 (1.2) (3.7)
In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS 19 – Employee Benefits, the disclosures above
are determined prospectively from 2006. 34) Authorised and issued share capital
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Number Amount
million £m
Authorised
1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 745.0 74.5
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Number Value
million £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
1 April 2006 583.2 58.4
Issued under share option schemes 4.9 0.4
31 March 2007 588.1 58.8
Executive share option schemes
At 31 March 2007, the total number of options outstanding was 18,344,417 exercisable between 2007 and 2016 at
subscription prices between 77.0p and 233.0p. 836,639 options were exercised during the year and options of 1,366,621
lapsed. Options of 2,796,579 were granted during the year as shown below.
FKI share save schemes
At 31 March 2007 the total number of options was 5,757,347 exercisable between 2007 and 2010 at subscription prices
between 60.0p and 126.0p. No options over shares were granted during the year. 4,119,693 shares were exercised during
the year and options of 1,377,387 lapsed.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
At 31 March 2007 the total number of options outstanding was 3,742,709 exercisable between 2007 and 2016.A total of
1,234,979 options lapsed during the year and 1,728,901 were granted during the year as shown below.
Granted Exercise
during price
the year per share
Date of grant Number Pence Date exercisable from Expiry date
2 August 2006 – share options 2,796,579 98.15 2 August 2009 1 August 2016
2 August 2006 – LTIP 1,728,901 2 August 2009 1 August 2016
99 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 100 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
35) Acquisitions
On 18 April 2006 the Group acquired Harrington Generators International Limited for a total consideration of 
£6.2 million inclusive of costs of £0.2 million.The fair value of net assets acquired was £1.3 million and goodwill
arising was £4.9 million.The company’s principal activity is the design and supply of specialist generators. From the date
of acquisition, Harrington has contributed £14.5 million revenue and £2.6 million to the Group’s profit before taxation
and finance costs/income.
The aggregate book and fair values of the net assets of the acquisitions at the relevant date of acquisition were as follows:
Book Fair value Fair value
values adjustments to Group
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.2 – 0.2
Inventories 1.7 (0.2) 1.5
Receivables 1.6 – 1.6
Cash and short-term deposits 0.2 – 0.2
Payables (2.0) – (2.0)
Corporation tax (0.2) – (0.2)
Net assets acquired at fair value 1.5 (0.2) 1.3
Goodwill arising on acquisition 4.9
Total consideration 6.2
Satisfied by:
Cash paid net of costs 6.2
Deferred consideration –
6.2
Goodwill arose on the acquisition as the criteria for the recognition of intangible assets were not met at the date of
acquisition and goodwill represents the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
The fair value adjustment relates to the recognition of an obsolete and slow moving inventory provision in line with the
Group’s accounting policy. 36) Reconciliation of movement in equity
Share-
Share Capital based 
Share premium redemption Own Retained Exchange payments Hedging Minority Total 
capital account reserve shares earnings reserve accrual reserve interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 April 2006 58.4 156.4 2.0 (2.6) 35.8 6.6 4.5 (0.2) 1.1 262.0
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pensions 
and other post-retirement benefits – – – – 21.8 – – – – 21.8
Taxation on actuarial gain on defined 
benefit pensions and other 
post-retirement benefits – – – – (13.5) – – – – (13.5)
Exchange differences on retranslation 
of net assets of subsidiaries and loans – – – – – (16.9) – – – (16.9)
Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges – – – – – – – 1.6 – 1.6
Taxation on net gains/(losses) on
cash flow hedges – – – – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Dividends – – – – (26.3) – – – – (26.3)
Profit for the year – – – – 46.4 – – – 0.2 46.6
Share-based payments – – – – – – 1.4 – – 1.4
Exchange differences transferred to 
income statement in respect of disposals – – – – – 0.6 – – – 0.6
Premium on shares issued 0.4 2.7 – – – – – – – 3.1
Own shares movement – – – 0.2 (0.2) – – – – –
Other movement – – – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Transfer between reserves 
re. share-based options – – – – 2.3 – (2.3) – – –
As at 31 March 2007 58.8 159.1 2.0 (2.4) 66.3 (9.7) 3.6 1.0 1.2 279.9
As at 1 April 2005 – previously stated 58.2 156.0 2.0 (2.9) (27.3) (2.6) 3.1 – 0.2 186.7
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – – – – (5.5) – – 0.5 – (5.0)
As at 1 April 2005 58.2 156.0 2.0 (2.9) (32.8) (2.6) 3.1 0.5 0.2 181.7
Actuarial gain on defined benefit 
pensions and other 
post-retirement benefits – – – – 8.8 – – – – 8.8
Taxation on actuarial gain on 
defined benefit pensions and 
other post-retirement benefits – – – – (7.4) – – – – (7.4)
Exchange differences on retranslation 
of net assets of subsidiaries and loans – – – – – 11.4 – – – 11.4
Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges – – – – – – – (0.7) – (0.7)
Dividends – – – – (26.3) – – – – (26.3)
Profit for the year – – – – 93.8 – – – 0.2 94.0
Share-based payments – – – – – – 1.4 – – 1.4
Exchange differences transferred to
income statement in respect of disposals – – – – – (2.2) – – – (2.2)
Premium on shares issued 0.2 0.4 –––– ––– 0.6
Acquisitions of minority interests – – – – – – – – 0.7 0.7
Own shares movement – – – 0.3 (0.3) – – – – –
As at 31 March 2006 58.4 156.4 2.0 (2.6) 35.8 6.6 4.5 (0.2) 1.1 262.0
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed shares wholly out of distributable profits.
101 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
36) Reconciliation of movement in equity (continued)
Own shares
Own shares relate to shares of the Company held by the FKI plc Employee Benefit Trust which are transferred to
employee option scheme holders on exercise of their options.The costs of funding and administering the scheme are
charged to the income statement of the Company.
Exchange reserve
The exchange reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements 
of foreign operations. It also includes the effect of translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in
foreign subsidiaries.
Share-based payments accrual
IFRS 2 requires that an expense for share-based payments be recognised in the income statement based on the fair value
at the date of grant.This expense is recognised over the vesting period of the options.A share-based payment accrual is
recognised as part of equity.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging
instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge.
37) Share-based payments
Disclosures of the share-based payments offered to employees are set out below. In accordance with the transitional
provisions of IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all equity settled awards granted after 
7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 1 April 2004.
The charge to the income statement in respect of share-based payments for the year ended 31 March 2007 was 
£1.4 million (2006: £1.4 million).
(a) Share option scheme
The Group operates an executive share option scheme.All executive options granted up to and including 31 March
2007 may only be exercised subject to a performance condition that the Group’s growth in earnings per share must
exceed the UK retail price index by 9% or more over a three year period, subject to re-testing in subsequent years from
a rolling base.The re-testing condition was removed for options granted after April 2004.The contractual lifetime of 
the options is ten years.
For options granted from 1 April 2006 none will vest for an earnings per share less than the retail price index plus 12%
over the three years movement period. For earnings per share at or greater than retail price index plus 12%, awards will
vest on a straight-line basis. Details of the vesting levels are included in the Remuneration report.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 March 2007 is 87.0p to 116.5p (2006: 87.0p to 116.5p).
The options exercised during the year relate to options exercised by employees of disposed of companies and employees
made redundant.
The fair value is charged to the income statement over the vesting period and is estimated on the date of the grant by
Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow Limited using the binomial pricing model and the following weighted average assumptions.
Assumptions are made for each separate grant but weighted averages have been disclosed because share options were
granted at different dates within certain years. 37) Share-based payments (continued)
(a) Share option scheme (continued)
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average average
Risk free interest rate 4.70% 4.18% 5.24% 4.03% 4.45%
Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0%
Expected dividend yield 4.0% 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% 3.2%
Expected option life (years) 4 6 6 6 6
Fair value (pence) 19.2p 20.0p 26.0p 21.6p 19.5p
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended 31 March 2006 
Weighted Weighted 
average average 
Number of exercise Number of exercise
share options price share options price
000’s £ 000’s £
Outstanding as at 1 April 10,837 0.93 8,768 0.90
Granted during the year 2,797 0.98 2,192 1.03
Forfeited during the year (975) (0.79) ––
Exercised during the year (836) (0.77) (123) (0.77)
Outstanding as at 31 March 11,823 0.96 10,837 0.93
Options exercisable at end of year –– ––
The share options outstanding at 31 March 2007 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.5 years 
(2006: 7.7 years).
(b) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Participants receive annual conditional awards of shares in the Company which may vest only after the achievement 
of certain long term performance conditions. Participants may receive these shares, three years after the award, provided
the performance conditions are met.
Details of the performance conditions of the award granted in August 2006 and for awards granted prior to that date 
are provided in the Remuneration report.
The fair value is charged to the income statement over the vesting period and is estimated on the date of the grant 
by Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow Limited, using the Monte Carlo pricing model and the following weighted average
assumptions. Assumptions are made for each separate grant but weighted averages have been disclosed because options
were granted at different dates within certain years.
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average average
Risk free interest rate 4.78% 4.17% 5.16% 3.44% 4.04%
Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0%
Expected dividend yield 4.0% 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% 3.2%
Expected option life (years) 3 3333
Fair value (pence) 76.4p 77.7p 68.0p 50.0p 52.0p
103 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 104 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
37) Share-based payments (continued)
(b) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) (continued)
Details of the LTIP’s outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Number of Number of
shares shares
000s 000s
Outstanding as at 1 April 3,681 2,426
Granted during the year 1,729 1,339
Forfeited during the year (616) –
Exercised during the year – (84)
Lapsed during the year (1,106) –
Outstanding as at 31 March 3,688 3,681
Options exercisable at end of year – –
(c) Save As You Earn scheme
This scheme is open to all UK employees who have completed six months service and who enter into an approved
savings contract for a term of three or five years.The maximum amount which can be saved is £250 per month and 
the total savings (including interest) at the end of the term are available to purchase shares at 80% of their market value
shortly before the start of the savings contract.
The fair value is charged to the income statement over the vesting period and is estimated on the date of the grant by
Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow Limited, using the binomial pricing model and the following weighted average assumptions.
Assumptions are made for each separate grant but weighted averages have been disclosed because SAYE options were
granted at different dates within certain years.
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006 2005 2004
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average
Risk free interest rate – 4.30% 5.14% 3.86%
Expected volatility – 25.0% 25.0% 25.0%
Expected dividend yield – 3.2% 3.2% 3.2%
Expected option life (years) – 3.8 3.9 4.1
Fair value (pence) – 35.3p 32.9p 36.9p
Details of the SAYE options outstanding during the year are as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended 31 March 2006 
Weighted Weighted 
average average 
Number of exercise Number of exercise
SAYE options price SAYE options price
000’s £ 000s £
Outstanding as at 1 April 10,157 0.69 10,272 0.65
Granted during the year – – 1,860 0.86
Forfeited during the year (538) (0.80) (509) (0.79)
Exercised during the year (4,081) (0.60) (686) (0.60)
Cancelled during the year –– (780) (0.65)
Outstanding as at 31 March 5,538 0.74 10,157 0.69
Options exercisable at end of year 130 0.60 – – 37) Share-based payments (continued)
(c) Save As You Earn scheme (continued)
The SAYE options outstanding at 31 March 2007 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.7 years 
(2006: 1.8 years).
The options exercised during the year include 3,976,000 relating to the maturing of a scheme and the remainder to
options exercised by employees of disposed of subsidiaries and employees made redundant.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 March 2007 is 60.0p to 98.25p (2006: 60.0p to 98.25p).
38) Reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Operating profit before special items – continuing operations 100.6 100.0
(Loss)/profit before taxation and finance costs of discontinued operations (0.4) 8.0
Depreciation 25.0 29.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.9 1.3
Loss/(gain) on disposal of plant and equipment – 0.3
Loss on disposal of intangible assets – 0.3
Outflows relating to termination and closure of businesses (6.9) (12.5)
Share-based payments 1.4 1.4
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits assets and liabilities (21.1) (14.6)
Increase in inventories (22.5) (1.4)
Increase in receivables (46.5) (5.8)
Increase in payables and provisions 7.9 15.7
Dividend received from associated company 0.2 –
Cash generated by operations 38.6 122.6
39) Net debt
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash and short-term deposits 125.5 237.1
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings including finance leases and overdrafts:
– non-current (462.5) (503.4)
– current (23.4) (45.8)
Bank overdrafts net of cash included within assets and liabilities held for sale – (1.4)
Derivative financial instruments 30.5 8.8
(329.9) (304.7)
105 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 106 FKI plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements
40) Capital commitments
Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 9.9 1.4
Acquisition of software costs defined as intangible assets – 0.1
9.9 1.5
41) Contingent liabilities
The Group has contingent liabilities amounting to £111.9 million (2006: £125.0 million), principally representing 
the guarantees given in the ordinary course of business on behalf of the trading subsidiaries on which no losses are
anticipated. In addition, there are contingent liabilities in the ordinary course of business in connection with the
completion of contracts within specification, including responsibilities for maintenance.
The Group is also the subject of various pending legal proceedings which have arisen in the normal course of business,
including claims on contracts, product liability, environmental claims and others.The claims giving rise to such
proceedings are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance and third-party indemnities.While the outcome 
of some of these matters cannot precisely be foreseen, the directors do not believe that these claims, after allowing 
for provisions already made, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group's financial results.
42) Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation
and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group’s associate is Mediterranean Power Electric Company Limited and no transactions were made between 
the Group and its associate during the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006.
The remuneration of the Directors, who are considered to be the key management personnel, is provided in the
Remuneration report. We have audited the parent company financial statements
of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which
comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 16.
These parent company financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors’
remuneration report that is described as having 
been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial
statements of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies
Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the Company’s members those matters we
are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for
no other purpose.To the fullest extent permitted by law,
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body,
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual
Report, the directors’ remuneration report and the parent
company financial statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are 
set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial
statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal 
and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent
company financial statements give a true and fair view and
whether the parent company financial statements and the
part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited
have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.We also report to you whether in
our opinion the information given in the parent company
directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors’ report includes
that specific information presented in the operating and
financial review that is cross referred from the business
review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we
have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is
not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual
Report and consider whether it is consistent with the
audited parent company financial statements.The other
information comprises only the Chairman’s statement,
the operating and financial review, the corporate social
responsibility report, the corporate governance statement,
the directors’ report and the unaudited part of the directors’
remuneration report.We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the parent company
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend 
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board.An audit includes examination,
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the parent company financial statements and
the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the
preparation of the parent company financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all
the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to
give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial
statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent
company financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true 
and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state 
of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2007;
• the parent company financial statements and the part 
of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the directors’ report is
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor
London
15 June 2007
Independent auditor’s report to the members of FKI plc
107 FKI plc 108 FKI plc
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 0.3 0.4
Investments in subsidiaries 3 2,562.9 2,562.9
2,563.2 2,563.3
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 4 1,661.5 1,075.8
Derivative financial assets due within one year 6 0.2 –
Derivative financial assets due after more than one year 6 48.4 27.5
Cash and short-term deposits 14.5 64.5
1,724.6 1,167.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Bank and other borrowings 5 (44.1) (48.4)
Derivative financial liabilities 6 (1.5) –
Other creditors 7 (3,305.3) (2,791.4)
(3,350.9) (2,839.8)
Net current liabilities (1,626.3) (1,672.0)
Total assets less current liabilities 936.9 891.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Bank and other borrowings 5 (417.2) (442.2)
Derivative financial liabilities 6 (19.6) (18.2)
Other creditors 7 – –
Net assets before pension liability 500.1 430.9
Pension liability 8 (51.3) (77.3)
Net assets 448.8 353.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9, 10 58.8 58.4
Share premium account 10 159.1 156.4
Capital redemption reserve 10 2.0 2.0
Own shares 10 (2.4) (2.6)
Share-based payments accrual 10 3.6 4.5
Hedging reserve 10 – –
Profit and loss account 10 227.7 134.9
Equity shareholders’ funds 448.8 353.6
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 June 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
P Heiden – Director
N Bamford – Director
Company balance sheet
As at 31 March 2007 109 FKI plc
Notes to the Company financial statements
1) Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements of FKI plc are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.As permitted by the Act, the
separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Standards (“UK GAAP”) using the historical cost convention except where certain financial instruments have been
measured at fair value.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account is not presented. Under Financial
Reporting Standard 1, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds
that the cash flows of the Company are included within the published consolidated financial statements.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items considered material in relation 
to the financial statements, except as noted below.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Sterling 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.All profits and losses on exchange are credited or charged to the profit
and loss account.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated
residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Plant and machinery – heavy production 15 years
– other 10 years
Office equipment 5 to 10 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as 
separate items.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales
proceeds, less costs of disposal, and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Leases
Assets obtained under leases and hire purchase contracts which result in the transfer to the Company of substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership (finance leases) are capitalised as tangible fixed assets at the estimated present 
value of underlying lease payments and are depreciated over their expected useful lives.The capital elements of future
lease obligations are recorded as liabilities whilst the finance elements of the rental payments are charged to the income
statement over the period of the lease or hire purchase contract so as to produce a constant rate of charge on the
outstanding balance of the net obligation in each period.
Rentals paid under other leases (operating leases) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
Investments
The Company’s investment in shares in group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 110 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements
1) Significant accounting policies (continued)
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid, or recovered, using the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, on all timing differences, subject to the exceptions noted below, at
the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting
purposes.
Deferred tax in respect of taxable or deductible timing differences associated with investments in subsidiaries is not
recognised where the timing differences can be controlled and it is probable that the timing differences will not reverse
in the foreseeable future or in the case of assets, taxable profit will be unavailable against which the timing differences,
can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible timing differences, carried forward unused tax assets and unused tax
losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible timing differences,
and carried forward unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which it is anticipated that the asset
will be realised or the liability will be settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are
appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these
criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension schemes
Pension costs for the Company’s defined contribution pension schemes are recognised within operating profit at an
amount equal to the contributions payable to the scheme for the period.Any prepaid or outstanding contributions 
at the balance sheet date are recognised respectively as assets or liabilities within prepayments or accruals.
(ii) Defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits
Pension liabilities are measured at their present value in accordance with actuarial assumptions that are updated at 
each balance sheet date. Pension assets are measured at fair value.The pension liability or asset is recognised in the
balance sheet.
Pension costs for the Company’s defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits are recognised 
as follows:
(a) Within operating profit
• The current service cost arising from employee service in the current period;
• The prior service cost related to employee service in prior periods arising in the current period as a result of
improvements to benefits;
• Gains and losses arising on unanticipated settlements or curtailments where the item that gave rise to the settlement
or curtailment is recognised within operating profit.
(b) Within other finance cost or income
• The interest cost on the liabilities, calculated by reference to the scheme liabilities and discount rate at the beginning
of the period;
• The expected return on assets, calculated by reference to the assets and their long-term expected rate of return at
the beginning of the period. 1) Significant accounting policies (continued)
(c) Within the statement of total recognised gains and losses
• On the scheme assets – the difference between the expected and actual return on assets;
• On the scheme liabilities – (a) the differences between the actuarial assumptions and actual experience,
and (b) the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions.
Derivative financial instruments of hedge accounting
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks
arising from operational, financial and investment activities.The Company does not use derivative financial instruments
for speculative purposes.
As the Company accounts for its investments in subsidiaries and associates at cost in its separate books, certain derivative
instruments could not be designated as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge in the Company accounts.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition they are stated at fair
value.The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. However, where
derivatives qualify for hedge accounting recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item
being hedged.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by reference to current forward exchange rates for
contracts with similar maturity profiles.The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to the
present value of the estimated future cash flows.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges, where they hedge the exposure 
to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability 
or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges (eg: interest rate swaps) which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss
from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.Any gain or
loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the
hedged item and recognised in the income statement.Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged
interest-bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised
by maturity.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows and which meet the conditions for
hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge
is recognised directly to equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in net profit or loss.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or
liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the
initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that
do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred 
to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss,
for example when the future sale actually occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting.At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised
in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur,
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
111 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements 112 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements
1) Significant accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payments
Certain employees (including directors) receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions,
whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (“equity-settled transactions”).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at 
which they are granted.The fair value is determined by an external valuation. In valuing equity-settled transactions,
no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of FKI plc
(“market conditions”).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period 
in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully
entitled to the award (“vesting date”).The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each
reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of
awards at that date based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a
market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided
that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had 
not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of 
the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense
not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled
award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated 
as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The Company has an employee share incentive plan and an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable
options to executives and senior employees. Shares in the Company held by the employee share trust are presented in
the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of FRS 20 in respect of equity-settled awards and 
has applied FRS 20 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 
1 April 2004.
2) Tangible fixed assets
Plant, equipment 
and vehicles Total
£m £m
Cost
1 April 2006 1.2 1.2
Additions 0.1 0.1
Disposals (0.1) (0.1)
31 March 2007 1.2 1.2
Depreciation
1 April 2006 (0.8) (0.8)
Charge for the year (0.2) (0.2)
Disposals 0.1 0.1
31 March 2007 0.9 0.9
Net book value 31 March 2007 0.3 0.3
Net book value 31 March 2006 0.4 0.4 3) Investments in subsidiaries
Subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost
1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 2,562.9
Provisions
1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 –
Net book value 31 March 2007 2,562.9
Net book value 31 March 2006 2,562.9
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is give on page 123 of the Group consolidated financial statements.
4) Debtors receivable within one year
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,660.4 1,071.0
Other prepayments and accrued income 1.1 0.9
Current tax recoverable – 3.3
Deferred tax – 0.6
1,661.5 1,075.8
5) Bank and other borrowings
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank loans 44.1 48.4
Other loans 417.2 442.2
461.3 490.6
The total borrowings of the Company are repayable as follows:
Bank loans Other loans
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand 44.1 48.4 – –
Between one and two years – – – –
Between two and five years – – 417.2 442.2
In five years or more – – – –
44.1 48.4 417.2 442.2
On 5 June 2007 the Company entered into a commitment with a number of relationship banks to provide a 
£120 million revolving credit facility in replacement of the existing £150 million revolving credit facility that matures
on 26 July 2007.This new £120 million facility, which runs until 1 April 2009, will provide working capital funding
during a phase when the Company’s operational performance is expected to benefit from strengthening end-markets
and further strategic re-alignment of the portfolio. It is expected that this will lead to improved financial metrics
allowing the Company to subsequently refinance its maturing debt obligations in a cost-effective manner.
The terms and conditions under the new £120 million facility are very similar to the previous facility, but with some
additional headroom under the financial covenants.
113 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements 114 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements
6) Derivative financial instruments
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Debtors falling due within one year 0.2 –
Debtors falling due after more than one year 48.4 27.5
Creditors amounts falling due within one year (1.5) –
Creditors amounts falling due after one year (19.6) (18.2)
27.5 9.3
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Net Net
Derivative Derivative derivative Derivative Derivative derivative
financial financial financial financial financial financial
assets liabilities instruments assets liabilities instruments
£m£m£m £m£m£m
Derivative financial instruments – non-current
Cash flow hedges – (0.4) (0.4) – ––
Fair value hedges – (13.9) (13.9) 3.4 (1.0) 2.4
Net investment hedges 47.2 (5.3) 41.9 24.1 (17.2) 6.9
Other hedges 1.2 – 1.2 – ––
48.4 (19.6) 28.8 27.5 (18.2) 9.3
Derivative financial instruments – non-current
Interest rate swaps – other hedges 0.2 – 0.2 – ––
Forward foreign exchange contracts – –– – ––
Other hedges – (1.5) (1.5) – ––
0.2 (1.5) (1.3) – ––
48.6 (21.1) 27.5 27.5 (18.2) 9.3
The Company adopted FRS 25 and FRS 26 with effect from 1 April 2005. On this date a number of derivative
financial instruments held by the Company qualified as effective cash flow and fair value hedges.
Cash flow hedges
At 31 March 2007 the Company held two cross-currency swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges.These swaps
hedge the cash flow variability arising on movements in the Euro: Sterling exchange rate and protect Euro 30.0 million 
of the Euro 600 million Eurobond.The terms of the contracts are:
Currency Principal Maturity Interest rate
Cross-currency swaps
Company pays Sterling 20.7 million 22 February 2010 8% fixed, payable semi-annually
Company receives Euro 30.0 million 22 February 2010 6.625% fixed, receivable annually
There have been no changes in the above swaps during the course of the year. 6) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
At 31 March 2007 the Company held 12 copper swap contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
These contracts lock the Company into fixed copper prices which help protect it against fluctuations in the market
price of copper.The terms of these contracts are:
Commodity Total quantity Maturity Pricing
Commodity swaps 
Company pays Copper 2,550 tonnes 31 March 2008 Month-end settlements at 
fixed prices averaging 
US Dollars 5,733 per tonne
Company receives Copper 2,550 tonnes 31 March 2008 Month-end settlements at 
the average LME price 
for each month
At 31 March 2007 the Company held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against the risk of
exchange rate fluctuations.Those forward foreign exchange contracts that were accounted for as cash flow hedges are set
out below:
Currency Principal Maturity Exchange rates
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Company pays US Dollar 49.3 million Various dates between Various US Dollar: Sterling 
30 August 2007 and exchange rates ranging from 
22 February 2009 $1.87 to $1.96
Company receives Sterling 25.4 million Various dates between Various US Dollar: Sterling 
30 August 2007 and exchange rates ranging from
22 February 2009 $1.87 to $1.96
Company pays Sterling 10.1 million 5 April 2007 Czech Koruna: Sterling 
exchange rate of CZK 41.91 
Company receives Czech Koruna 425.0 million 5 April 2007 Czech Koruna: Sterling 
exchange rate of CZK 41.91 
There were no forward foreign exchange contracts or commodity swaps accounted for as cash flow hedges in the prior
year ended 31 March 2006
Fair value hedges
At 31 March 2007 the Company held a number of cross-currency interest rate swaps that were designated as fair 
value hedges.These swaps hedge against changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of Euro 544 million of the 
Euro 600 million fixed rate Eurobond.The terms of the contracts are:
Currency Principal Maturity Interest rate
Cross-currency swaps
Company pays Sterling 335.3 million 22 February 2010 3 to 6 months LIBOR plus 3%
Company receives Euro 486.0 million 22 February 2010 6.625% fixed
Interest rate swaps
Company pays Euro 58.0 million 22 February 2010 3 months EURIBOR plus 3.46%
Company receives Euro 58.0 million 22 February 2010 6.625% fixed
The above interest rate swaps leave a residual Euro 58 million of Euro foreign exchange exposure which the Company
has designated as an effective net investment hedge of its investments in the Eurozone.
There have been no changes in the above swaps during the course of the year.
115 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements 116 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements
6) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Other derivative instruments
At 31 March 2007 the Company held a number of cross-currency swaps.The terms of the contracts are:
Currency Principal Maturity Interest Rate
Cross-currency swaps – US Dollars
Company pays US Dollar 363.6 million 22 February 2010 3 to 6 months LIBOR 
plus 3.54% to 4.49%
Company receives Sterling 224.9 million 22 February 2010 3 to 6 months LIBOR plus 3%
Company pays US Dollar 29.4 million 22 February 2010 8.51% fixed
Company receives Sterling 20.7 million 22 February 2010 8% fixed
Cross-currency swaps – Canadian Dollars
Company pays Canadian Dollar 45.1 million 22 February 2010 3 months CAD BA rate 
plus 3.65%
Company receives Sterling 19.3 million 22 February 2010 3 months LIBOR plus 3%
Cross-currency swaps – Danish Krone
Company pays Danish Krone 981.4 million 22 February 2010 6 months CIBOR plus 3.54%
Company receives Sterling 91.1 million 22 February 2010 6 months LIBOR plus 3%
Cross-currency swaps – Euro
Company pays Euro 15.0 million 10 October 2007 7.21% fixed
Company receives Sterling 10.4 million 10 October 2007 8% fixed
There have been no changes in the above swaps during the course of the year.
The Company also holds a number of other interest swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting under FRS 26.
These LIBOR-in-arrears swaps reduce the Company’s exposure to floating US Dollar interest rates, on a total of 
US Dollars 133.7 million, through a combination of interest rate caps and spreading of reference dates for interest rate
resets. Changes in the fair value of these swaps are booked to profit or loss. There have been no changes in these swaps
during the year.
7) Other creditors
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,278.7 2,760.0
Other taxes and social security 0.3 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 21.6 26.4
Other creditors 4.7 4.7
3,305.3 2,791.4
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Accruals and deferred income – – 8) Pension liability
The Company is a participating member of the FKI Group Pension Scheme which is the main defined benefit scheme
in the United Kingdom.The date of the most recent, full actuarial valuation was 31 December 2005.
The fair value of the Scheme’s assets, the present value of its liabilities and the net pension liability are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Equities 168.6 153.0
Bonds 303.3 302.7
Other 15.8 6.1
Total fair value of Scheme assets 487.7 461.8
Present value of Scheme liabilities (561.8) (572.1)
Deficit in the Scheme (74.1) (110.3)
Related deferred tax asset 22.8 33.0
Net pension liability (51.3) (77.3)
The movement in the deficit in the Scheme during the year was as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
1 April (110.3) (130.3)
Charged within operating profit (6.6) (6.9)
Charged within other net finance charges (3.7) (1.7)
Recognised within the statement of total recognised gains and losses 15.2 9.8
Employer contributions 31.3 18.8
31 March (74.1) (110.3)
9) Called up share capital
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Number Amount
million £m
Authorised
1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 745.0 74.5
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Number Value
million £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
1 April 2006 583.2 58.4
Issued under share option schemes 4.9 0.4
31 March 2007 588.1 58.8
117 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements 118 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements
9) Called up share capital (continued)
Executive share option schemes
At 31 March 2007, the total number of options outstanding was 18,344,417 exercisable between 2007 and 2016 at
subscription prices between 77.0p and 233.0p. 836,369 options were exercised during the year and options of 1,366,621
lapsed. Options of 2,796,579 were granted during the year as shown below.
FKI share save schemes
At 31 March 2007, the total number of options was 5,757,347 exercisable between 2007 and 2010 at subscription prices
between 60.0p and 126.0p. No options over shares were granted during the year. 4,119,693 shares were exercised during
the year and options of 1,377,387 lapsed.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
At 31 March 2007 the total number of options outstanding was 3,742,709 exercisable between 2007 and 2016.A total of
1,234,979 options lapsed during the year and 1,728,901 were granted during the year as shown below.
Granted Exercise
during price
the year per share
Date of grant Number Pence Date exercisable from Expiry date
2 August 2006 – share options 2,796,579 98.15 2 August 2009 1 August 2016
2 August 2006 – LTIP 1,728,901 2 August 2009 1 August 2016
10) Share capital and reserves
Share Share Capital Own Profit Share- Hedging Total
Capital premium redemption shares and based reserve equity
account reserve loss payments
account accrual
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 April 2006 58.4 156.4 2.0 (2.6) 134.9 4.5 – 353.6
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pensions and other 
post-retirement benefits net of tax – – – – 5.0 – – 5.0
Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges – – – – – – – –
Dividends – – – – (26.3) – – (26.3)
Profit for the year – – – – 112.0 – – 112.0
Share-based payments – – – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Premium on shares issued 0.4 2.7 – –––– 3.1
Own shares movement – – – 0.2 (0.2) – – –
Transfer between reserves re. share-based options – – – – 2.3 (2.3) – –
As at 31 March 2007 58.8 159.1 2.0 (2.4) 227.7 3.6 – 448.8
As at 1 April 2005 – previously stated 58.2 156.0 2.0 (2.9) 237.6 3.1 – 454.0
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 – – – – (5.4) – 0.4 (5.0)
As at 1 April 2005 58.2 156.0 2.0 (2.9) 232.2 3.1 0.4 449.0
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pensions and 
other post-retirement benefits net of tax – – – – 3.6 – – 3.6
Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges – – – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Dividends – – – – (26.3) – – (26.3)
Loss for the year – – – – (74.3) – – (74.3)
Share-based payments – – – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Premium on shares issued 0.2 0.4 – – – – – 0.6
Own shares movement – – – 0.3 (0.3) – – –
As at 31 March 2006 58.4 156.4 2.0 (2.6) 134.9 4.5 – 353.6 11) Share-based payments
For details of share-based payments, see note 37 of the Group accounts.
12) Dividends
The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year were:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 3p (2005: 3p) per ordinary share 17.5 17.5
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 1.5p (2006: 1.5p) per ordinary share 8.8 8.8
26.3 26.3
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in accordance
with FRS 21 has not been included as a liability as at 31 March 2007.
This proposed final dividend will be paid on 5 October 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 7 September 2007.
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 of 3p (2006: 3p) per ordinary share 17.6 17.5
13) Directors’ remuneration
The directors are remunerated by FKI plc for their services to the Group as a whole. Information covering directors’
remuneration is given in the Remuneration report of the Group.
14) Contingent liabilities
The Company has contingent liabilities of £20.4 million (2006: £16.7 million) in respect of guarantees of subsidiary
undertakings banking obligations. In addition, the Company has guaranteed £49.7 million (2006: £100.0 million) 
of US Dollar fixed rate guaranteed senior notes issued on behalf of FKI Industries Inc.
The Company is also the subject of various pending legal proceedings which have arisen in the normal course of
business, including claims on contracts, product liability, environmental claims and others.The claims giving rise to 
such proceedings are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance and third-party indemnities.While the outcome
of some of these matters cannot precisely be foreseen, the directors do not believe that these claims, after allowing for
provisions already made, will have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s financial results.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies 
within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and treats the guarantee contract as 
a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make payments 
under the guarantee.
119 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements 120 FKI plc Notes to the Company financial statements
15) Leasing commitments
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Not later than one year – 0.1
After one year but not more than five years 0.1 0.4
After five years – –
0.1 0.5
16) Other information
(a) Auditors remuneration for the statutory audit is £0.5 million (2006: £0.5 million)
(b) Operating lease rentals charged to the profit and loss account is £0.1 million (2006: £0.1 million). 2007 2006 2005
Year ended 31 March £m £m£m
Total turnover
Continuing operations 1,330.9 1,273.4 1,118.8
Discontinued operations 3.0 65.4 171.7
1,333.9 1,338.8 1,290.5
Underlying operating profit 100.2 108.0 94.6
Underlying profit before tax 74.4 79.0 69.2
Adjusted earnings per share 8.7p 9.7p 8.9p
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 7.9p 16.1p (7.0)p
Proposed dividends per share 4.5p 4.5p 4.5p
Reported net debt 329.9 304.7 350.7
Total shareholders’ funds employed 278.7 260.9 186.5
The Group has applied IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments:
Recognition and Measurement from 1 April 2005 and has not restated comparative figures for 2005.
Five year record
Under IFRS
121 FKI plc Five year record
Under UK GAAP
122 FKI plc
2004 2003
Year ended 31 March £m £m
Turnover 1,345.1 1,452.6
Results (before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation)
Profit before interest
*
96.5 103.9
Interest and other finance charges
*
(29.7) (26.5)
Profit before taxation
*
66.8 77.4
Taxation (16.9) (19.7)
Profit after taxation
*
49.9 57.7
Adjusted earnings per share
*
8.6p 10.0p
(Loss)/earnings per share
*
(3.6)p 1.9p
Dividends per share 4.5p 4.5p
Reported net debt 349.1 498.4
Total shareholders’ funds employed
*
238.9 284.5
*Amounts for 2004 have been restated on adoption of FRS 17 “Retirement Benefits”. Financial calendar
Dividends on ordinary shares: Date paid/payable
Interim 1.5p 23 February 2007
Final 3.0p 5 October 2007
Annual general meeting 24 July 2007
Announcement of Group results:
Half year results 29 November 2007
Annual results 5 June 2008
Key dates
123 FKI plc
Lifting Products and Services group
Acco Material Handling Solutions (USA)†
Bridon International Limited
Bridon New Zealand Limited (New Zealand)
Bridon American Corporation (USA)
BTS Drahtseile GmbH (Germany)
Crosby Canada (Canada)†
N.V . Crosby Europe (Belgium)
The Crosby Group Inc (USA)
The Harris Waste Management Group Inc (USA)
Welland Forge (Canada)†
Energy Technology group
Brush Electrical Machines Limited*
Brush HMA B.V . (Netherlands)
Brush SEM s.r.o. (Czech Republic)
Brush T raction†
Brush Transformers Limited
Froude Hofmann†
Harrington Generators International Limited
Hawker Siddeley Switchgear Limited
Marelli Motori SpA (Italy)
Whipp & Bourne†
FKI Logistex group
FKI Logistex North America Inc (USA)
FKI Logistex A/S (Denmark)
FKI Logistex Limited
Industry General Corporation (USA)
Hardware group
Hickory Hardware, Inc (USA)
Rhombus Casters Malaysia Bhd (Malaysia)
Rhombus Rollen Holding GmbH (Germany)
Truth Hardware Corporation (USA)
Weber-Knapp Company (USA)
Other
FKI Engineering Limited*
FKI Industries Canada Limited (Canada)
FKI Industries Inc (USA)
West House Insurance Limited (Guernsey)*
All companies are wholly owned.
Shares of companies marked * are held directly by FKI plc.
†For statutory purposes these businesses operate as divisions of other FKI Group
companies.
All companies are incorporated and operate in Great
Britain and are registered in England and Wales unless
otherwise stated. Companies located overseas operate
principally in the country of incorporation.
A full list of subsidiary companies incorporated in Great
Britain and registered in England and Wales will be lodged
with the Registrar of Companies.
As permitted by Section 231 (5) of the Companies Act
1985, only principal operating subsidiary undertakings have
been shown above.
Principal subsidiary undertakings Corporate information
124 FKI plc
Directors
G F Page CBE, Chairman
P Heiden, Chief Executive
N Bamford, Finance Director
R L Gott, executive director
R I Case CBE, non-executive
Sir Michael Hodgkinson, non-executive
C L Matthews, non-executive 
D J Pearl, non-executive
Company Secretary
AVentrella
Registered office
Falcon Works, PO Box 7713
Meadow Lane, Loughborough
Leicestershire LE11 1ZF
Telephone +44 (0)1509 612837
Fax +44 (0)1509 612339
Registered number
164945
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Wachovia Bank, NA
Dresdner Bank AG
HSBC Bank plc
Nordea
ABN AMRO Bank NV
Deutsche Bank AG
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Auditors
Ernst & Y oung LLP
1 More London Place, London SE1 2AF
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA
Registrars and transfer office
Capita Registrars
Northern House,Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Telephone +44 (0)870 1623131
Fax +44 (0)1484 600911
www.capitaregistrars.com
Company website
www.fki.co.uk
Shareholders’ information
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2007
Number of % of Number of % of
Size of holding shareholders total shares share capital
0 - 500 1,879         20.2982 419,029 0.0713
501 - 2,500             3,941         42.5732 5,247,253 0.8922
2,501 - 5,000             1,549 16.7333   5,683,606 0.9664
5,001 - 10,000               911 9.8412 6,548,226        1.1134
10,001 - 25,000               443 4.7856 6,805,799          1.1572
25,001 - 50,000               125 1.3503 4,418,948 0.7514
50,001 - 75,000                46 0.4969 2,818,282     0.4792
75,001 - 100,000 47 0.5077 4,137,835 0.7036
100,001 - 250,000 105 1.1343 16,784,712 2.8539
250,001 - 500,000 58 0.6266 21,894,756 3.7228
Above 500,000              153 1.6528 513,364,029 87.2886
Total        9,257 588,122,475 FKI plc Annual report 2007
FKI plc
Falcon Works 
PO Box 7713 
Meadow Lane 
Loughborough 
Leicestershire
LE1 1 1ZF 
T +44 (0)1509 612837
F +44 (0)1509 612339
www.fki.co.uk
Driving Growth
FKI plc Annual Report 2007
