 456MPH
108MPH
70MPH
transfor Ming
flybe
f lybe group plc
Annual Report 2014
f lybe group plc Annual Report 2014
6601_Flybe_AR_2014_Cover2.indd   2-4 11/06/2014   15:17 Key financial highlights
o verview
Flybe at a glance IFC
Introducing our new CEO 2
strategic report 
Chairman’s statement 8
Business model 12
Chief Executive  
 Officer’s statement 14
Business review   16
Strategy and KPIs 19
The Purple Way 20
Financial review 21
Risks and uncertainties 34
Corporate responsibility 38
governance
Chairman’s statement  
 on corporate governance 45
Board of Directors 46
Corporate governance 49
Audit Committee report 58
Directors’ report 63
Directors’ remuneration 66
Statement of  
 Directors’ responsibilities 84
f inancial and other information 
Independent auditor’s report 85
Consolidated income statement 90
Consolidated statement  
 of comprehensive income 91
Consolidated statement  
 of changes in equity 91
Consolidated balance sheet 92
Consolidated cash  
 flow statement 93
Notes to the consolidated  
 financial statements 94
Company balance sheet 133
Company statement  
 of changes in equity 134
Company cash flow statement 134
Notes to the Company  
 financial statements 135
Five-year summary 138
Glossary 139
The Directors present the Annual 
Report and Accounts for the year 
ended 31 March 2014. References  
to ‘Flybe’, the ‘Group’, the ‘Company’ ,  
‘we’ or ‘our’ are to Flybe Group plc 
(registered number 1373432) and  
its subsidiary companies, where 
appropriate. The Strategic Report 
contains statements that are forward 
looking. These statements are made 
by the Directors in good faith based 
on the information available to them 
up to the time of approval of this 
report. Such statements should be 
treated with caution due to the 
inherent uncertainties and risk 
associated with forward  
looking information.
f lybe at a glance
a cknowledgments
Flybe would like to thank all those who participated in producing this report, 
particularly the members of staff for their contributions.
This report is available on our website: www.flybe.com/corporate/investors/
This document was printed in the UK using vegetable based inks which have lower 
VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) emissions, are derived from renewable sources 
and are less hazardous than oil-based inks. The paper is sourced from responsible 
sources and is environmentally friendly, using an ECF (elemental chlorine-free) 
process and produced at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 environmental 
management standard. The mill is fully FSC-certified.
The printer is ISO 14001 accredited and Forest Stewardship Council (‘FSC’)  
chain of custody certified. FSC ensures there is an audited chain of custody  
from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document  
in the printing factory.
 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass 
it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycle paper waste. 
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com
2014 
£m
2013
(restated) 
£m
Total revenue under management
2
868.4 781.5
Less: joint venture revenue (247.9) (167.2)
Group revenue 620.5 614.3
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring 
and surplus capacity costs
3
1.7 (23.6)
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax and  
net restructuring
4
8.3 (33.1)
Profit/(loss) before tax 8.1 (41.1)
Profit/(loss) after tax 8.0 (42.2)
1
 Includes our franchise partner, Loganair.
2
 Includes our joint venture, Flybe Finland.
3
  Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring and surplus capacity costs defined as 
profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring and surplus capacity costs of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m) 
and revaluation gains on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: loss of £4.7m). Surplus capacity 
costs represent the costs incurred in the year relating to capacity that is considered by 
management to be surplus as a result of restructuring decisions taken in 2012/13.  
See pages 23 and 24 of the Financial Review for further detail.
4
  Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax and restructuring defined as profit/(loss) before tax and net 
restructuring costs of £0.2m (2012/13: £8.0m).
6601_Flybe_AR_2014_Cover2.indd   5-7 11/06/2014   15:17   6.9% increase in passenger numbers  
in UK scheduled airline at 7.7 million  
(2012/13: 7.2 million), despite 1.4% reduction  
in seat capacity
  5.4 ppts improvement in load factors  
to 69.5% (2012/13: 64.1%)
  1.8% improvement in Flybe UK’s passenger 
revenue per seat at £49.70 compared to prior 
year’s £48.84; Flybe UK’s cost per seat (on a 
constant currency basis) before restructuring 
and surplus capacity was 1.6% below prior year
  55.1% sector share up from 52.4% last year 
making Flybe the leading airline brand in the 
UK regional market. In the UK domestic sector, 
Flybe’s share was 28.3% (2012/13: 28.1%)
  Operating from 7 UK bases and serving 
64 airports in total throughout the UK  
and Europe
1
  Major expansion announced at London City 
Delivering connectivity 
for the UK regions
  11.1% growth in Revenue under management  
to £868.4m (2012/13: £781.5m)
  £620.5m of Group revenue (excluding joint 
venture) up by 1.0% from 2012/13’s £614.3m
  Record passenger numbers and load factors  
in UK scheduled airline
  3.3% decrease in Group operating costs before 
restructuring at £619.5m (2012/13: £640.9m)
  £8.1m of profit before tax of compared to loss 
of £41.1m – improved performance in every  
part of Flybe’s business
  Twin-engine growth strategy announced – 
branded and white label
  £150.1m of net cash raised reflecting investor 
confidence in Flybe’s future
Delivering on  
Flybe’s turnaround
  £247.9m of revenue in first full year of 
expanded Finnair joint venture operations 
up from £167.2m in 2012/13
  Service standards and punctuality  
on and above target
  Number of ongoing discussions for new  
white label opportunities
Delivering connectivity for 
Europe’s mainstream airlines
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 1
Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Overview Introducing our new CEO
Transforming Flybe
2013/14 has been a year  
of transformation for Flybe with 
a significant restructuring of the 
business, extensive organisational 
muscle-building, new process 
implementation, in-year delivery 
against key revenue and cost 
objectives, a major equity fund 
raising and the setting out of a new, 
clear strategic vision. Its new CEO, 
Saad Hammad, explains.
Q
 The last few years have been difficult 
for Flybe. What made you want to take 
up the job?
A
There were three reasons. 
First, I spotted in Flybe significant potential based  
on a clear and compelling purpose which the business 
had not really capitalised on. By providing regional 
customers with time-saving access to the world, Flybe 
had the potential to play a unique and powerful role in 
connecting regional communities and linking regional 
economies not just in the UK but across Europe, both 
in a Flybe-branded capacity and by flying regional 
routes on behalf of national flag carriers.
I could see that the alternative to a 90-minute flight 
with Flybe is usually a long and painful car, ferry and/or 
rail journey that is at least three hours long. So Flybe 
plays a unique role in fulfilling important social and 
economic needs. If Flybe didn’t exist, it would be 
necessary to invent it. Our smaller aircraft give us a 
unique ability to serve lower volume regional routes 
which the larger airlines cannot operate profitably with 
their bigger aircraft with more seats to fill. Our aircraft 
types also enable us to operate out of smaller, local 
airports with shorter runways. Through hub airports, 
we also connect local airports to the world.
The second thing that struck me is that Flybe is full of  
good people. Professional, diligent people, passionate  
and committed to what we do. People who, above all 
else, are decent and authentic, with big hearts. 
The combination of a great purpose and great people 
was hugely attractive. 
The challenge, of course, was that Flybe could only 
thrive if structured in the right way. We needed a 
competitive and sustainable cost base, an upgraded 
commercial capability and a rigorous, fact-based 
management culture. The business was in need of a 
significant transformation. I have extensive experience 
not only of the airline sector but also of business 
turnarounds and transformation, so I knew what 
needed to be done. This is the third reason.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 2 Q
 What struck you on joining?
A
 My first impressions included  
many positives: 
> > Flybe has an established brand with strong UK 
domestic and UK regional sector shares.
> > There was great momentum behind Phases 1 and 2 
of the restructuring programme that had already 
started, although I could see that further Immediate 
Actions were required.
> > Finnair’s CEO gave me some very positive feedback 
about Flybe Finland’s service and cost performance 
in our contract flying operation with 22 aircraft 
operating on Finnair’s behalf.
> > Flybe’s employees told me loudly and clearly that 
there was a real mandate for, and expectation of, 
change to how the business operates.
> > During my personal discussions and interactions  
with staff, both at headquarters in Exeter and around 
our bases, I was exceptionally impressed by their 
professionalism, commitment and passion.
I wanted to build on these strengths. Hence the 
strategy I announced in November 2013 used these 
as the cornerstones for the development of a reshaped 
Flybe. It was clear that there was much to do, but the 
willingness among everyone in the business to see 
through real change was fundamental. The way our 
employees have reacted subsequently to the size and 
pace of change, has been amazing. 
Flybe has a magic ingredient and that is its people. 
I am immensely proud to be serving them as their CEO.
Q
You mentioned the challenges –  
what were the key ones you faced  
on joining?
A
The main challenges were to ensure the  
survival of the business and to establish a 
secure platform for profitable future growth. 
Our cash position needed strengthening, our costs 
were too high and the cost reduction measures already 
underway were a start but just did not go far enough. 
Our commercial capability was also weak and too 
many routes were unprofitable. Our network and 
organisation were complex and inefficient, and we  
had surplus, underutilised aircraft with aircraft types 
ill-matched to the needs of our route network. Finally, 
confidence was waning amongst all stakeholders. 
To address these issues, I asked everyone in Flybe  
to concentrate on what I called the ‘5 Cs’:
1. Cash – improving our cash position to create 
maximum financial headroom.
2. Cost – moving to a world-class cost base through 
additional measures to compete profitably and offer 
attractive fares to customers; and establishing an 
efficient organisational structure.
3. Configuration – ensuring we have the right route 
network, number of bases and aircraft, and aircraft 
types (right aircraft on the right routes); and 
improving aircraft and crew utilisation.
4. Commercialisation – strengthening our  
commercial capability to focus on customers  
and drive revenue growth.
5. Confidence – building the confidence of our 
shareholders, our customers, our partners and our 
employees through active engagement and urgent 
delivery on the priorities of the business.
I am delighted that we have been able to meet the 
challenges faced by the business head on through  
the 5 Cs programme. Flybe returned to profitability  
in 2013/14 and generated positive operating cash.  
Our shareholders supported a significant capital raise 
in March 2014. 
  Flybe has emerged from its  
recent challenges a stronger  
and better organised company, 
well positioned for the future.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 3 Introducing our new CEO
Transforming Flybe
Continued
While we are not yet operating at full potential and are 
still moving towards target levels of profitability, we 
have moved back into profit, reconfigured the business 
to a more viable network, started to reduce unit costs 
to a more sustainable level and have started to 
generate commercial momentum, with unit  
revenue growth in every month since August. 
Flybe’s load factors are now at record levels.
We are of course saddened that we have had to lose  
so many diligent, committed colleagues via TUPE 
transfers or redundancy. I am very grateful for the 
positive and constructive way in which our employees, 
trades unions and employee representatives 
approached the consultation process regarding 
redundancies as well as the efforts that went into 
mitigating the numbers of job losses. The headcount 
reductions are now largely delivered, although there 
are a few people still scheduled to leave Flybe at the 
end of the summer.
In total during the year, we generated £47m of cost 
savings, through headcount reductions, outsourcing 
and procurement gains. We disbanded the Company’s 
divisional structure, streamlined the senior management 
team and moved to a simplified, integrated organisation 
which we have called ‘One Flybe’.
In terms of configuration, we refocused our UK 
network on the seven larger bases and closed six 
smaller bases in the Isle of Man, Newcastle, Aberdeen, 
Inverness, Jersey and Guernsey. Flybe is of course 
continuing to operate services to and from all of these 
airports. We also successfully rationalised our route 
network for the Summer 2014 season (beginning 
April 2014), impacting 55 out of last year’s 140 summer 
routes, including the discontinuation of 30 unprofitable 
routes. Surplus aircraft capacity is being addressed 
by grounding 10 aircraft at the end of March 2014  
and a further four by the end of the Summer 2014 
season. Work is continuing to reduce the cost  
of this aircraft grounding.
A significant part of our improved commercialisation 
programme involved the filling of key management 
roles through a balance of external recruitment and 
internal appointments. Revenue, pricing and route 
management improvements were implemented and  
a number of marketing enhancements were rolled  
out, all with positive revenue per seat, load factor and 
contribution impact. Partner and supplier negotiations, 
for example, with airports and aircraft manufacturers, 
also delivered significant benefits. A structured route 
profitability and selection methodology was developed 
and implemented. Over 100 potential new routes have 
been assessed using this approach and nine new routes 
were selected for Summer 2014, which are already 
trading ahead of expectations. 
Separately, we made progress on improving the 
profitability of our Finland joint venture with Finnair. 
The Flybe Finland JV continues to be profitable in its 
white label flying operations. A programme to reduce 
losses in the legacy scheduled risk flying business is 
being implemented with effect from April 2014, with 
two of the six loss-making lines of scheduled risk flying 
being removed.
The changes we made have enabled us to regain  
the confidence of all stakeholders. We approached  
the capital markets in early 2014 and were able to  
raise £150.1m of net proceeds on 12 March 2014 in  
a Firm Placing and Placing and Open Offer. The fact 
that this was over-subscribed, and at a price that was 
only a 7.2% discount to the share price immediately 
prior to the announcement, reflects the growing 
support that the investment community has for Flybe. 
We now have a balance sheet which allows us to 
weather significant shocks that can impact the whole 
aviation industry and we have the financial firepower  
to fund additional productivity enhancements and 
profitable future growth.
We also now have a balanced shareholder base 
supported by some well-known and highly respected 
institutions, although this has entailed the exit of 
Rosedale from the shareholder register. Rosedale  
and the Jack Walker family have been unswerving 
supporters of Flybe over many years and I would  
like to thank them for that.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 4 Q
You have talked about the internal 
challenges but what about the wider 
back drop for aviation?
A
The aviation industry is a vital part of the 
wider economic landscape. Without it, both 
domestic and international trade would be 
much more difficult and the global economic picture  
would be a radically different one.
On a global level, air travel demand looks set to 
continue growing in line with the global economic 
recovery. On the supply-side, aviation remains highly 
competitive, with the rise of the Middle Eastern 
network carriers providing a real challenge to the large 
established flag carriers in Europe. This threat to their 
profitability may well, over the course of time, lead 
them to rethink how they provide the unprofitable 
regional feed traffic that is important for their long-
haul networks. In so doing, this may provide an 
opportunity for Flybe to step in either as a scheduled 
flying substitute or, through a partnering arrangement, 
as a lower cost white label provider.
Fuel prices remain the most difficult cost to control 
across the industry. Our immediate needs are well met 
with an extensive hedging programme that has 72.7% 
of our next twelve months’ requirements provided for. 
However, as we saw when fuel prices moved up in 2011 
to its current levels in the $100 to $115 per barrel range 
for Brent, there is always the possibility for another 
step-change to come into effect. There is little that any 
airline can do to minimise this as it is not possible, nor 
desirable, to hedge over a highly extended period.  
We would expect fuel price rises to be passed onto 
customers in time.
There are a number of regulatory, policy and taxation 
issues which act as a brake on delivering the optimal 
set of outcomes across the industry. I will focus on 
three – EU Emissions policy, UK APD and London 
runway capacity.
Firstly, emissions of greenhouse gases are a critical 
issue for our industry. Flybe is one of the first airlines  
to recognise the need to minimise these emissions  
and invested early in new aircraft that were more fuel 
efficient than their predecessors. Having completed 
the fleet transition to Bombardier Q400 turboprops 
the mainstay of our fleet – and Embraer E-series jets in 
2009, Flybe has been ahead of the rest of the industry, 
where significantly older aircraft remain in place. 
However, the EU regulation in relation to the Emissions 
Trading Scheme was amended during the year to 
exclude extra-EU operations. This means that airlines 
which operate wholly within the EU, such as Flybe,  
are at a competitive disadvantage versus other airlines 
which do a mix of EU and extra-EU flying. An intra-EU 
airline with a more fuel efficient fleet is being 
discriminated against simply due to its flying footprint.
In a similar vein, Air Passenger Duty (‘APD’) in the UK, 
is another Government activity that does not achieve 
a rational economic outcome. APD is an inhibitor to 
regional economic regeneration and hurts regional 
operators like Flybe disproportionately, as it 
discriminates against domestic travel in favour of 
international and long-haul travel. APD was introduced 
primarily as a revenue-raising mechanic that reflects 
the lack of Duty on aviation fuel. However, unlike  
such a Duty, it has never been rationally graduated.  
The basic domestic rate for APD has rocketed 160% 
from £5 for a one-way flight when it was introduced  
in 1994, to £13 today, which on a domestic sector,  
such as Newquay – Gatwick of 215 miles, works out at 
an average of 6p per mile. By way of contrast, the new 
B and B rate for long-haul will be £71 from April 2015, 
which, on a 3,400-mile trip to Bermuda, works out at 
2p per mile; or 6,000 miles to Tokyo at 1.2p per mile. 
There is absolutely no logic to such a discriminatory  
tax regime.
  2013/14 has seen Flybe return  
to profitability and make  
a significant step towards  
our goal of being Europe’s  
best local airline.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 5 Introducing our new CEO
Transforming Flybe
Continued
Furthermore, the regime discriminates even further 
against UK domestic air travel. A round trip from 
Southampton to Dublin (538 miles) incurs only one set 
of tax, while a round trip from Birmingham to Edinburgh 
(501 miles) suffers double taxation, as both sectors are 
UK departures. This results in a clear price incentive  
for people to travel abroad rather than within the UK. 
On a flight that might cost only £30, a £13 tax levy is 
very significant. Given this double taxation, it would  
be much more equitable – and ultimately much more 
beneficial to the UK economy – to introduce an even 
lower APD charge on domestic or short sector routes.
Regional aviation is a key part of the UK’s transport 
infrastructure. Nearly half of Flybe passengers are 
business people. These are busy people, the majority 
of whom live in the UK’s regions. They are poorly 
served by London’s airports and the available rail links, 
which principally go to and from London, and are 
neither convenient nor practical. For the worker who 
lives in the South West, for example, and commutes to 
an oil job in Aberdeen, there is no practical alternative 
to flying. Similarly, Edinburgh to Birmingham is an 
appalling rail journey; Belfast to Manchester is, in part, 
a long, slow ferry ride. Regional air transportation is 
not a luxury. It is an essential part of a modern thriving 
economy, especially when the regions account for 80%  
of UK GDP. Flybe will continue to lobby the UK 
Government to reform APD further to ensure regional 
travellers do not have to pay a discriminatory tax levy.
The third issue concerns the Airports Commission  
in the UK, led by Sir Howard Davies, which has been 
charged with making recommendations in 2015 on new 
runway capacity in the South East of England. Flybe is 
concerned by the overwhelming focus of the Davies 
Commission on global connectivity with larger jets that 
will mainly benefit non-UK residents and those residing 
in the South East. It seems to miss the crucial need for 
connectivity for the tens of millions of UK residents 
who live in the UK’s regions. We believe that any 
incremental runway capacity in or around London at a 
national hub needs to have guaranteed, yet affordable, 
take-off and landing slots for regional aircraft, allowing 
the UK regions to connect to this hub.
Q
What do you see as the key points  
for the year ahead?
A
Our key task in 2014/15 is the full rebirth  
of Flybe. This involves six key initiatives. 
First, a full brand re-launch with single-minded focus 
on a distinctive customer proposition: time-saving and 
punctual travel for regional customers delivered with  
a smile. Our new customer promise is to be ‘The fastest 
way from A to Flybe’, faster than rail and road, and 
aiming to be on-time, every time. The brand re-launch 
involves the adoption of purple as our brand colour,  
a new look and feel to our website, advertising,  
aircraft livery and on-board presentation as well  
as a reinvigorated product and service offering. 
Among the many new products, services and 
improvements – which include simplified ticket  
names – our world-first 60:60 Guarantee is our way of 
showing customers how much we appreciate that their 
time is precious – that any delay they might experience 
is of consequence. Flybe’s punctuality has always been 
well above industry average but we are determined  
to do everything we can to ensure that every flight 
arrives on-time. To demonstrate that commitment,  
our 60:60 Guarantee means that if a flight arrives  
more than 60 minutes late on stand for a reason  
within Flybe’s control, customers will qualify  
for a £60 voucher to put towards their next  
Flybe booking, if made within 60 days. 
On-board, we are starting to roll out a number of new 
enhancements. For example, we now offer small gifts 
as our passengers depart the aircraft and we are 
pleased to be one of the first airlines in Europe to 
enable customers to use their portable electronic 
devices in flight-safe mode from gate to gate. In June, 
we will roll out our new contemporary, purple-themed 
cabin crew uniform.
The improvements we are launching are designed  
to reflect an exciting new era for Flybe, one with a 
renewed commitment to delivering a great customer 
experience. We are adopting purple not just as our new 
brand colour, but as a signifier of a new way of doing 
things. In the new Flybe, purple is a way of life. Purple 
is all about the importance of People, Passion and 
Performance. It is about Positivity and Playfulness.  
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 6  60 : 60
Guarantee
It is about teamwork and One Flybe. It is about great 
customer service and delivering on our commitments. 
It is about reaching for the stars and being the best 
possible airline we can be. We have already launched 
a structured engagement programme to induct all 
employees and business partners in the ‘The Purple 
Way’. This will be followed up by the ‘Flybe Loves 
Service’ training programme through which we  
are aiming to send every employee, as well as 
representatives from our out-sourced service  
providers, by the end of the year.
Second, 2014/15 will be about shifting out of the  
recent retrenchment to start to grow again our core 
scheduled branded UK business. Following the nine 
new routes launched from Birmingham and Newquay, 
we announced a major expansion at London City, and 
we are keen to do more. We continue to evaluate both 
new route and base opportunities as well as looking to 
extend our range of codeshare partnerships with other 
airlines. Codeshares enable us to offer our regional 
customers one-stop to the world through hassle-free 
transfers at our hubs onto to the long-haul routes 
offered by partners.
Third, we are focused on removing burdensome fleet 
commitments both in the shape of grounded aircraft 
and future aircraft obligations. As part of this, we will 
engage with lessors on early hand back of the aircraft, 
with flag carriers in Europe on both sub-leasing and 
white label opportunities and with aircraft 
manufacturers on redeployment or re-absorption  
of future orders. We will also explore supplementary 
flying opportunities within our UK business.
Fourth, we will continue to build management 
capability in the business. We have already secured a 
high quality CFO in Philip de Klerk to succeed Andrew 
Knuckey; a new Company Secretary (Annelie Carver), 
both of whom join us later in the year; a new MD for  
our Finnish joint venture (Maunu Visuri) and a Head of 
White Label Business Development (Jochen Schnadt).
Fifth, we will continue to optimise current white label 
and franchising partnerships (Finnair, Loganair) and 
build new ones (such as the arrangement to bring 
in Stobart Air to supplement Loganair as a franchise 
partner). In Flybe Finland, the 22 aircraft providing  
the white label service operated on behalf of our joint 
venture partner, Finnair, are performing well both 
financially and operationally. We will continue to 
optimise this activity while we work with Finnair to 
explore the opportunities of turning Flybe Finland’s 
branded scheduled flying business into profit, 
or exiting from it as an activity.
Finally, we plan to complete our review of non-core 
assets and implement a solution that optimises 
shareholder value.
The above six developments herald a new beginning 
for Flybe. As we move forward, we must remain 
disciplined in everything we do. Discipline is vital to 
secure our future. We need capital discipline to ensure, 
as we return to growth, new aircraft deployment is 
done prudently and we maximise the utilisation of 
those aircraft. We need revenue discipline to ensure 
our commercial activities are managed in a fact-based 
and rigorous manner with a relentless focus on the 
customer. We need cost discipline to safeguard the 
gains of the painful restructuring we have been 
through. Finally, we need organisational discipline  
to ensure we never lose sight of the fact that we are  
a people business and our strength is our people.
As we move forward, we will be guided by our  
START values:
Safety: no compromises
Teamwork: ‘One Flybe’; collaboration as a way of life
Alignment: embrace our goals and the ‘The Purple Way’ 
and act with urgency
Responsibility: take accountability and ownership
Transparency: open, upfront, authentic and sharing.
In summary, I believe that overall we have reasonably 
clear skies ahead of us for 2014/15 and beyond and 
I am looking forward to building a profitable and 
successful Flybe that is capable of exploiting the many 
opportunities before it. We have the employees and 
operational capability to become the best local airline 
in Europe. 
Flybe has a bright future, a purple future.
Viva Flybe!
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 7 Chairman’s statement
People have a persistent and growing desire  
to travel, be it for business, visiting friends and  
family or recreation. Ground transport infrastructure  
is becoming saturated in the UK, with inadequate 
investment failing to provide sufficient capacity  
to meet demand. The London-centric nature of the UK 
transport debate dictates that transport infrastructure 
investment is overwhelmingly spent there, and on  
links to and from London; HS1, HS2, and Crossrail for 
example. The ‘aviation’ debate in the UK barely rises 
above another runway for London. Heathrow declares 
itself the UK’s only ‘hub’ airport, yet it has air links to 
only seven UK airports.
Flybe is different. Flybe serves 28 UK airports, taking 
over 7 million passengers around the UK and from the 
UK to other European destinations. We get on with the 
business of carrying customers from A to B as quickly, 
efficiently and respectfully as possible. All those 
awkward journeys that otherwise would entail long  
car, rail or ferry trips, become an easy hour or so flight; 
Exeter to Glasgow, Edinburgh to Birmingham, 
Guernsey to Southampton or Belfast City to 
Manchester, for example. 
Flybe operates from regional airports, where typically 
the runway seems shorter than the terminal walkway  
at Gatwick, and where checking-in is so much quicker 
than even trying to park at Heathrow. These airports 
are usually closer to where people live and work.  
They are more convenient and reduce car journeys  
to the airport as well as total journey times.
Regional aviation is a crucial part of the UK’s transport 
infrastructure. It is not a luxury. It is an essential part  
of a modern thriving economy. So it remains a source 
of amazement that the Government persists with  
the arbitrary and discriminatory application of  
Air Passenger Duty (‘APD’), where a typical domestic 
flight can be charged five times the tax per mile of  
a long-haul one. This is exacerbated when a return 
international flight suffers this charge once, but a 
domestic one is taxed twice. Yet in the last Budget, the 
Government actually reduced long-haul APD rates by 
£1 billion, while informing Flybe that it could not afford 
to reduce domestic rates.
“ Flybe has undergone great change 
in the last 12 months, not only in its 
management, but also in developing 
its strategy and in cementing its 
balance sheet strength. This has 
secured strong foundations  
for the successful turnaround  
of this business.”
Simon Laffin
Non-Executive Chairman
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 8 The cost reduction programmes have, sadly, resulted  
in over 1,000 job losses. Fortunately, through 
impressive teamwork with both staff and unions, the 
number of compulsory redundancies has been small. 
We are, however, sad to have had to lose good and 
loyal people from our workforce. Flybe has no option 
but to remain competitive on cost. Total headcount  
has now reduced by 29% over the financial year. The 
turnaround has put a great deal of strain on many 
employees who have put extraordinary levels of work 
and commitment into restoring Flybe to financial and 
commercial health. On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to pay tribute to each and every employee who has 
contributed to this; be they cabin crew, maintenance 
staff, manager, pilot or administrator.
As already announced, there will be some further  
job losses after this summer as seasonal routes are 
discontinued and some further aircraft are grounded, 
as planned. However, we believe that we are now  
on the verge of emerging from this period of 
retrenchment, and looking forward to future 
considered and careful profitable growth. The early 
precursors to this have already been announced with 
additional routes from Birmingham, London Southend 
and London City.
Board
Saad Hammad took over as Chief Executive Officer  
in August 2013. We believe that Flybe has in Saad  
a talented and inspirational leader. I became Chairman 
in November last year. We have already announced 
that Philip de Klerk will join the Board later this year  
as Chief Financial Officer. Philip has a strong financial 
pedigree from both Unilever and SAB Miller and  
we very much look forward to him joining us.  
Timo Anderson, former Director General of the  
UK Military Aviation Authority, joined the Board  
as a Non-Executive Director in May 2014, and brings 
great experience of aviation, leadership and air safety.
A momentous year for Flybe
Under Jim French, the previous Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, the Board concluded that Flybe 
needed to reduce its cost base significantly and a 
programme of cost reductions was initiated. In August 
2013, Jim stood down as Chief Executive Officer and 
Saad Hammad joined in that role. Saad, who came with 
a strong background in logistics and with easyJet, 
made an immediate impact. He identified that even 
more needed to be done to reduce costs to compete  
in this market and that the business needed to upgrade 
its processes and capabilities as well as to develop its 
strategy further.
Jim stood down as Chairman at the beginning of 
November 2013, and I joined the business as Non-
Executive Chairman. Later that month, Saad presented 
the Interim Results and announced his twin-engined 
strategy of regional UK scheduled and white label 
flying, underpinned by further cost reductions, working 
with all suppliers, and a highly disciplined approach to 
commercial and route profitability. 
In March this year, shareholders contributed £155.7m 
gross of new equity to provide funds to enable greater 
resilience to the business, strengthening its balance 
sheet, and also to fund growth in line with the new 
strategy, as outlined by Saad. This has now been 
focused into developing new routes and bases, further 
efficiency gains and IT investment, fleet optimisation, 
greater ownership of aircraft and expansion of white 
label flying. A franchising agreement with Stobart  
Air was announced covering six routes from  
London Southend.
The following month, the strategy continued to be 
rolled out, with five new routes announced from 
London City airport, as well as a complete re-launch of 
the Flybe brand; a new purple identity, website, aircraft 
livery, staff uniforms and customer service initiatives. 
Many of these are being rolled out over the summer 
and the positive effect will accumulate over the  
coming months. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 9  Chairman’ s stat ement
Continued
General outlook
The general economic outlook in our most important 
market, the UK, has improved – with growth reported  
in the year to December 2013 of 1.9% – and most 
commentators expecting 2014 to see growth  
in the range of 2.4% to 3.5%. While this provides an 
encouraging back-drop, it is important we continue  
to ensure Flybe does not depend on positive macro-
economic conditions for its future success, and remains 
focused on capacity, revenue and cost discipline. 
While our deliberate actions last year to remove 
unprofitable routes will continue to impact revenue and 
profit into 2014/15, our disciplined focus, significantly 
reduced cost base, strengthened balance sheet and 
growth strategy, along with an encouraging macro-
economic backdrop, give the Board confidence of 
delivering a good result for the current year and of 
driving sustainable profitable growth over the  
coming years.
Simon Laffin
Chairman
Jim French, the former Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, retired from the Board in November 2013 after 
more than two decades working for Flybe/Jersey 
European, building it into a major regional airline.  
Mark Chown, Mike Rutter and Andrew Strong, resigned 
from the Board as Executive Directors in August 2013.
Andrew Knuckey, Chief Financial Officer, will retire 
from the Board in August this year. Andrew has played 
a key role in the development of Flybe over the last 
nine years, in particular supporting the turnaround 
under Saad and this year’s successful capital raise. 
Anita Lovell stood down as a Non-Executive Director  
in May last year. Alan Smith has now served nearly nine 
years on the Board and will retire as a Non-Executive 
Director in August this year. Chris Simpson stood  
down as Company Secretary in March this year, having 
served in this role since before Flybe’s 2010 IPO and 
before that as Finance Director.
For the time being, Andrew Knuckey has taken on the 
role of Company Secretary, until Annelie Carver joins 
as General Counsel and Company Secretary in June 
this year. She is currently a partner in the Corporate 
and Commercial team at Michelmores Solicitors.
I should like to thank all the departing Directors for 
their hard work and commitment over many years and 
wish the new Directors good health for the challenges 
to come!
Corporate governance
In view of the new standards of best practice and 
regulations, we have made an additional statement  
on this important area on page 45.
Results
This year has seen a significant improvement in 
financial performance as a result of the efforts taken  
to restructure the business. Adjusted profit before tax, 
restructuring and surplus capacity costs for 2013/14 
was £1.7m, which marks a significant improvement  
on the prior year’s £23.6m loss, and reported profit 
before tax was £8.1m (2012/13: loss before tax of 
£41.1m). The Group generated operating cash flow 
before restructuring of £7.3m, and its net assets  
at 31 March 2014 were £194.1m. These results are  
in line with market expectations.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 10 F l y b e . . .  r e l a un c h , r e b r an d , 
renewal
456MPH
108MPH
70MPH
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 11 Our twin-engine  
business model
Our 
Business
Core proposition
A  Affordable, time-saving air travel with regional  
and international connectivity for both business 
and leisure.
Core proposition
B  Turnkey capacity solutions to national  
European flag carriers by providing aircraft,  
crew and maintenance.
Regional 
branded  
airline
A
‘White 
label’  
airline
B
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 12 How we deliver value
  Safe operations
   Safety is Flybe’s number one priority. 
We are committed to developing, implementing, 
maintaining and constantly improving strategies 
and processes to ensure that all our aviation 
activities take place under an appropriate 
allocation of organisational resources, aimed  
at achieving the highest level of safety 
performance while delivering our services.
  Market leading, regional white  
label capability
   Flybe is already the largest regional white label 
provider in Europe, and has been delivering  
white solutions to flag carriers in Europe and 
beyond for more than a decade.
  Regional market focus
   Our smaller aircraft can operate profitably  
on lower volume regional routes and at more 
convenient local airports, often with short 
runways, serving both business and leisure 
passengers. Competition comes primarily from 
road, rail and/or ferry. Flybe offers faster, cost 
effective access to the outside world, with 
excellent punctuality and high frequency  
services to other regions and to connecting hubs, 
e.g. Manchester, Birmingham and Amsterdam.
  Disciplined management process
   Flybe has established a fact-based culture  
and an analytically-grounded decision making 
process. This enables the business to make 
decisions rigorously and focus on the four  
key metrics which drive value creation: 
> Optimise passenger revenue per seat 
>  Ensure competitive unit costs  
and productivity levels
  
> Drive efficient asset utilisation 
  
> Optimise margin per white label aircraft
Countries 
 1 0
Aircraft under 
management
 98
Passengers 
over
 7.7 m
Routes
over
 200
Airports
over
 64
To become 
Europe’s 
best local 
airline
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 13
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information Chief Executive Officer’s 
statement
Flybe UK
UK 
scheduled 
airline 
operations
UK 
contract 
flying 
operations
Training 
Academy
ONE FLYBE
Finland
Finnish 
scheduled 
airline 
operations
Finnish 
contract 
flying 
operations
MRO
Flybe 
Aviation 
Services
The MRO provides service to third party customers 
as well as the UK and Finnish operations
Overview
A reinvigorated Flybe
This year has seen a significant turnaround in  
financial performance as a result of the efforts taken  
to restructure the business. The £150.1m net raised in 
March 2014’s Firm Placing and Placing and Open Offer 
provides Flybe with strength and a firm foundation for 
profitable growth.  
Flybe’s structure and activities
As reported in our H1 2013/14 results announcement  
on 11 November 2013, the Group’s divisions have been 
removed and the business has been refocused into  
‘One Flybe’. We report three business segments:
“ 2013/14 has seen the rebirth of Flybe.”
 Saad Hammad
 Chief Executive Officer
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 14 Key financial headlines
2014
£m
2013
(restated) 
£m
Change
%
Total revenue under 
management 868.4 781.5 11.1
Less: joint venture revenue (247.9) (167.2) 48.3
Group revenue 620.5 614.3 1.0
Adjusted EBITDAR before  
net restructuring costs
1
98.9 63.5 55.7
Adjusted profit/(loss) before 
tax, net restructuring and 
surplus capacity costs
2
1.7 (23.6) n/m
Profit/(loss) before tax 8.1 (41.1) n/m
Profit/(loss) after tax 8.0 (42.2) n/m
Operating cash inflow/
(outflow) before  
restructuring costs 7.3 (1.6) n/m
Net funds/(debt)
3
116.9 (66.3) n/m
1
  Adjusted EBITDAR before restructuring defined as operating  
profit/(loss) after adding back depreciation, amortisation  
and aircraft rental charges and net restructuring costs  
of £0.2m (2012/13: £8.0m). 
2
  Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, restructuring and surplus capacity 
costs defined as profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring and 
surplus capacity costs of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m) and revaluation 
gains/(losses) on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: £(4.7m)). 
Surplus capacity costs represent the costs incurred in the year 
relating to capacity that is considered by management to be surplus 
as a result of restructuring decisions. See pages 23 and 24 of the 
Financial Review for further detail.
3
  Net funds/(debt) includes restricted cash of £40.5m at 31 March 
2014 (2013: £31.4m).
Results
Flybe delivered a result for the year in line with  
market expectations. Revenue under management, 
including the full year impact of increased white label 
flying in Flybe Finland, increased 11.1% to £868.4m 
(2012/13: £781.5m). Group revenue increased 1.0%  
to £620.5m (2012/13: £614.3m). Adjusted EBITDAR 
before restructuring costs increased by 55.7% to 
£98.9m (2012/13: £63.5m), with an adjusted profit 
before tax, gains on revaluation of USD aircraft loans, 
net restructuring costs and surplus capacity costs of 
£1.7m (2012/13: loss of £23.6m) and a reported profit 
before tax of £8.1m (2012/13: loss of £41.1m).
This significant improvement in Flybe’s trading 
performance resulted mainly from the Turnaround 
Plans announced in January and May 2013, and the 
further Immediate Actions announced in November 
2013. Combined, these initiatives delivered cost savings 
of £47m in 2013/14, and this is expected to increase  
to £71m in 2014/15.
The Group’s balance sheet at 31 March 2014 had  
total cash, including restricted funds, of £218.4m  
at 31 March 2014 (2013: £54.7m), and net funds  
of £116.9m (2013: net debt of £66.3m).
The Business Review and Financial Review sections  
set out the full detail behind the 2013/14 results.
People
Our Turnaround Plan has involved considerable efforts  
to reduce the cost base of the business. Unfortunately, 
this process has resulted in the departure of over  
1,100 people from the business through redundancy, 
resignation or transfer to other organisations under  
TUPE arrangements. While only nine of these 
redundancies were compulsory, I do not underestimate 
the effect of these difficult decisions on those staff 
leaving and the friends and colleagues whom they  
left behind. 
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank all 
of our employees both past and present for their hard 
work, support and resilience through what has proved 
to be a very challenging period for the business  
and its people.
Summary
2013/14 marks the rebirth of Flybe. Our turnaround 
plan has enabled the business to return to profitability. 
With our strengthened balance sheet following the 
£150.1m net fund raise, we can leverage our position as 
Europe’s largest regional airline and start to implement 
our twin-engine strategy of growing our UK branded 
business and our white label operations across Europe.
With the strengthening of our balance sheet, the Group 
is now stronger than it has ever been and is well placed 
to deliver future profitable growth and become 
Europe’s best local airline.
Saad Hammad
Chief Executive Officer
 £868 .4m
revenue under management  
up from £781.5m in 2012/13
 7. 7m
scheduled passengers  
up from 7.2m in 2012/13
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 15  Business r e v ie w
Flybe UK
Flybe continues to operate its fleet in a way that 
optimises the use of the aircraft in service, responding 
to market demands while at the same time managing 
its existing fleet. As part of the strategic review 
announced in November 2013, it was identified that  
the fleet of 14 E195 118-seat regional jets were surplus 
to Flybe UK’s current capacity and route network 
requirements. Therefore, 10 of these aircraft were 
grounded at the end of March 2014. The four remaining 
aircraft are currently being deployed, three on 
scheduled flying and one on a short-term white label 
operation for Aurigny. Of the total fleet of 14 aircraft, 
five will be returned to lessors during 2014/15, three  
are expected to continue flying through Winter 2014/15 
and management is in discussions with a number of 
airlines on possible white label or sub-leasing 
opportunities for the remaining six. 
Commercialisation
In addition to significant cost reductions, actions taken 
by the new commercial team to stimulate passenger 
numbers and improve unit revenues have helped the 
business return to profitability. In addition to a number 
of marketing enhancements, these actions included 
offering more attractive lead-in fares which diluted 
yields by 6.1% but led to a more than compensating 
increase in load factors and passenger volumes despite 
the 1.4% reduction in seat capacity. Load factor 
improved by 5.4ppt to 69.5% and passenger numbers 
increased by 6.9% to 7.7m, with a resulting 1.8% 
improvement in passenger revenues per seat to £49.70.
The new commercial team has also adopted a rigorous 
route assessment model for the evaluation of new 
routes. Since November 2013, more than 100 routes 
have been assessed using the model and, in February 
2014, nine new routes were announced, which are to 
date performing ahead of expectations.
One of the uses of the proceeds from the equity raise 
has been to refresh Flybe’s brand, which had largely 
remained unchanged since it was created in 2002:
> > Our aircraft are being repainted in purple with a light 
blue tail plane interleaved with yellow and red stripes. 
The interiors are also being updated and the service 
offering improved with purple mood lighting on 
boarding, music playing and a chocolate treat to our 
passengers on deplaning. The new uniforms being 
introduced this summer pick up on this theme and 
provide a new and improved look for our staff.
2013/14 was a year which saw Flybe 
UK return to profit as a result of 
decisive management actions across 
the business, and relentless focus on 
five Cs – Cash, Cost, Configuration, 
Commercialisation and Confidence:
Cash
During the year, in addition to cost reduction measures, 
we implemented a number of cash generation 
measures, including the sale of our London Gatwick 
slots to easyJet for £20.0m and the deferral  
of 16 E175 aircraft from 2014/15 to 2017 to 2019.
Costs
Phases 1 and 2 of our Turnaround Plan were announced 
in January and May 2013, and accelerated in November 
2013 with a series of Immediate Actions designed to 
further improve financial performance and resilience.  
In total, more than £71m per annum of costs are 
expected to be taken out of the business by 2014/15 
with £47m having been achieved in 2013/14. Full details 
of the turnaround can be found in the Financial Review.
Configuration
The Immediate Actions announced in November 2014 
has led to significant changes in the way we operate. 
By the end of March 2014, we had reduced the number 
of UK aircraft bases from 13 to seven – Belfast, 
Birmingham, Edinburgh, Exeter, Glasgow, Manchester 
and Southampton – in order to reduce costs and 
deliver improved operational efficiencies. This has 
entailed a consolidation of crew and aircraft at the 
bigger bases in order to achieve greater utilisation  
of both the aircraft and the crew. 
Flybe also continued to take a proactive approach  
to capacity management by removing, or reducing 
frequency on, a number of loss-making routes.  
As a result, seats flown in 2013/14 fell by 1.4%  
to 11.1m. However, commercial actions taken to 
stimulate demand led to a 5.4pt improvement  
in load factor to 69.5%, with passenger numbers 
increasing by 6.9% to 7.7m.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 16 > > To emphasise that one of Flybe’s key advantages  
is its punctuality, we have introduced a ‘60:60 
Guarantee’. If a passenger experiences a delay of 
more than 60 minutes for reasons within Flybe’s 
control, they have 60 days to claim a £60 voucher  
towards their next flight.
> > In addition, we have made the website simpler  
and easier to use and renamed our ticket types.
To date, the feedback to all these changes has been 
very positive and we look forward to seeing their 
continued impact on the business.
During the year, we have also entered into an 
agreement with Stobart Air to join Loganair as a 
franchise partner. Operations will be based at London 
Southend utilising two aircraft, to commence in  
June 2014.
Ensuring passengers arrive at their destination safely 
and on time is core for any airline and 2013/14 was 
another positive year for Flybe UK.
Of those airlines that operated more than 30,000 flights 
during 2013 from the ten Civil Aviation Authority (‘CAA’) 
reporting airports, the statistics confirmed that Flybe 
maintained its strong performance, delivering an 84.7% 
(2012: 83.2%) on-time ranking for its reported sample  
of 103,400 flights. The airline’s performance across  
our entire network was even better, with an 87.1%  
(2012: 85.2%) on-time punctuality level, and was among 
the best delivered in Flybe’s 12 years of operations.
Confidence
Active engagement with our employees and their 
Unions, as well as with business partners, suppliers, 
regulators and investors has yielded a renewed 
confidence in Flybe. The successful £150.1m net equity 
fund raising completed in March 2014 is testament  
to the strong support amongst investors for Flybe’s 
new management and strategy.
Sector share
Flybe continues to serve multiple customer segments. 
During 2013/14, around 40% of Flybe’s passengers 
were travelling on business, about a third visiting 
friends and relatives (‘VFR’), and the balance travelling 
for holiday or leisure. Flybe will continue to adjust 
its network to match customer needs during 2014/15 
and beyond.
Flybe’s brand share of the UK domestic airline sector in 
2013/14 was 28.3% (2012/13: 28.1%). Excluding London, 
Flybe’s regional share was 55.1%, up from 52.4% in the 
previous year. 
Flybe Training Academy
Flybe continues to develop and promote talent within 
the aviation industry through the training programmes 
it provides at the Exeter Training Academy facilities. 
The state-of-the-art building has 26 classrooms, a 
simulator hall with two full flight Level D simulators, 
cabin crew simulator hulls for safety and refresher 
training, and an engineering apprentice workshop.
Qualifications offered include a flight deck Multi-Crew 
Pilot’s Licence (under the first CAA-approved scheme 
for a UK airline), cabin crew and customer service 
NVQs, Foundation and Bachelor degrees, and 
engineering aircraft type approvals.
Partnership with Brussels Airlines
Contract flying is not confined to Finland, with two 
aircraft currently operating in Brussels Airlines’ colours. 
Together with two aircraft that returned to Flybe at the 
end of March 2014, this meant that four Q400 aircraft 
operated throughout 2013/14 under this white label 
arrangement.
 5 5.1%
(2012/13: 52.4%) UK regional sector share
(including our franchise partner, Loganair)
 28.3%
(2012/13: 28.1%) UK domestic sector share
(including our franchise partner, Loganair)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 17  Business r e v ie w
Flybe Finland and MRO
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (‘MRO’)
In November 2013, the management structure of the 
business was changed and each of the activities  
re-organised along functional lines. Flybe’s MRO,  
Flybe Aviation Services, is now managed as part  
of the ‘One Flybe’ approach as a profit centre and  
it is reported as a separate segment.
Flybe Aviation Services delivered a solid profitable 
performance in 2013/14.
The business is based in Exeter and continued to 
provide third party maintenance coverage of the 
BAE146/RJ, ATR turboprop and Bombardier Q400 
aircraft types, as well as MRO services for Flybe’s  
own fleet. 
Revenue for 2013/14 was £35.4m (2012/13: £40.5m) 
and Flybe Aviation Services delivered a profit before 
tax of £2.2m (2012/13: loss before tax of £5.1m).
Man hours in the MRO decreased by 13.5%  
to 455,000 hours (2012/13: 526,000 hours) following 
the streamlining of the operation as a result of 
restructuring activities. Of this total, some 59.1% was 
for third party customers in 2013/14 (2012/13: 59.3%), 
with the balance being work on behalf of Flybe. 
Overall, Flybe Aviation Services has taken positive 
steps to retain its position as a quality service provider 
with its focus strongly placed on sustaining an efficient 
cost base that enables it to react competitively to the 
needs of an ever-changing and diverse regional  
aircraft sector.
Saad Hammad
Chief Executive Officer
Flybe Finland
The contract with our joint venture partner, Finnair,  
to fly Embraer E-Series regional jets and ATR  
turbo-props on its behalf makes Flybe the largest 
independent provider of white label services  
in Europe with, including the Brussels Airlines activity, 
4.2 million seats flown in 2013/14 (2012/13: 2.7 million). 
Revenues increased by 48.3% to £247.9m (2012/13: 
£167.2m) and the joint venture generated a significantly 
reduced loss before tax of £1.0m (2012/13: loss before 
tax of £6.5m). Flybe’s share of loss after tax in the joint 
venture Flybe Finland was £0.5m (2012/13: £2.8m). 
The year has seen the bedding-in of the contract to fly 
an additional 12 E190 jets, taking the number of aircraft 
flying on a white label contract for Finnair to 22. This 
white label contract has been a success both financially 
and operationally, and recorded a profit before tax of 
£6.3m in 2013/14 (2012/13: £4.6m).
Less successful has been the existing commercial  
flying programme in Finland, which, despite being 
remodelled, continues to generate losses from the  
six aircraft operated during the year. The scheduled 
flying operation reported a loss of £7.3m in the year 
(2012/13: £11.1m). Since the year end, two aircraft  
have been returned to their owners on completion  
of the lease term. Flybe is in discussions with  
Finnair on further initiatives to improve the financial 
performance in the scheduled flying operation.
Notwithstanding the challenges on scheduled flying, 
the continuing transformation of Flybe Finland towards 
being a profitable, self-financed, sustainable business 
for the future bodes well towards meeting Flybe’s 
stated strategic objective of white label expansion  
in Europe. 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 18 Strategy and KPIs 
Description Key measures
Overall – maximise stakeholder confidence
Safety underpins  
everything  
we do
Well-developed safety procedures are in 
place to generate continuous improvement 
in performance – see page 38.
Realise  
value for 
shareholders
Drive improvements in financial 
performance and the share price 
performance of the Group – share price 
low of 41p, to 139p on 6 June 2014.
Adjusted EBITDAR before net 
restructuring and surplus capacity costs
1
 
at £98.9m from £63.5m last year and 
adjusted profit before tax, net restructur-
ing and surplus capacity costs
2
 up from a 
loss of £23.6m to a profit of £1.7m. Profit 
before tax £8.1m (2013: loss of £41.1m).
Maximise 
employee 
satisfaction
First benchmark survey to be run  
in 2014/15.
Regional branded airline
Commercialisation
Deliver growth 
in passengers, 
revenue and 
passenger  
revenue  
per seat
UK passengers were up 6.9% to  
7.7m (2012/13: 7.2m), with load factor 
improving by 5.4 percentage points  
(from 64.1% to 69.5%).
UK passenger revenue increased  
to £553.9m (2013: £551.8m).
UK passenger revenue per seat has  
grown to £49.70 from £48.84 in 2013.
Capitalise on 
leading positions 
in Flybe’s core 
UK regional  
and domestic 
markets
No. 1 in UK regional market (55.1% sector 
share, up from 52.4% in 2013).
3
No. 1 in UK domestic market (28.3% 
sector share, up from 28.1% in 2013).
3
Customer 
satisfaction
First benchmark survey to be run  
in 2014/15.
Complaints were 2.9 per thousand 
passengers (2012/13: 2.8 per  
thousand passengers).
Description Key measures
Regional branded airline continued
Configuration
Deliver market  
leading 
punctuality
Customer satisfaction based on 
punctuality – on-time departures  
within 15 minutes were at 84.4%  
in 2013/14 (2012/13: 82.7%).
Deliver a 
focused and 
productive 
operation with 
the right aircraft 
on right routes
Bases reduced from 13 to seven in the year.
55 routes (40% of total) modified  
for Summer 2014 (30 culled, 25 with 
frequency or gauge change).
Fleet under management stable  
at 98 aircraft with 10 grounded.
Aircraft utilisation up 1.9%  
to 7.3 hours per day.
Costs
Deliver an 
efficient  
cost base 
Group operating costs excluding fuel, 
restructuring and surplus capacity  
costs have decreased from £513.5m  
to £497.8m.
Group operating costs at constant 
currency
4
 per seat (excluding fuel) have 
decreased from £46.18 to £44.85.
Cash
Ensure  
minimum free 
cash balances 
equivalent  
to 10 weeks’ 
operating costs
Free cash at year end of £177.9m, 
equivalent to 15 weeks’ of 2013/14 
operating costs (2013: 2 weeks).
White label provider
Expand  
white label  
services in 
Europe
Flybe Finland, currently operates  
22 white label aircraft for Finnair.
In 2013/14, Flybe also operated four white 
label aircraft for Brussels Airlines.
Flybe has strong relationships with other 
major carriers, and discussions continue 
on a number of incremental white label 
opportunities.
Flybe’s strategy is focused on becoming Europe’s best local airline.
As a result of the strategic review announced  
on 11 November 2013 and the formation of a single 
organisation structure for Flybe, the management  
and purpose of both the MRO and the Training  
Academy changed.
The focus of these businesses is now to provide the 
achievement of a high quality service to the core airline 
business at a cost that is as low as is achievable.
1
  Adjusted EBITDAR before restructuring and surplus capacity  
costs defined as operating profit/(loss) after adding back net 
restructuring and surplus capacity costs of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m), 
depreciation, amortisation and aircraft rental charges. Surplus 
capacity costs represent the costs incurred in the year relating  
to capacity that is considered by management to be surplus  
as a result of restructuring decisions. See pages 23 and 24  
of the Financial Review for further detail.
2
  Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, restructuring and surplus capacity 
costs defined as profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring and 
surplus capacity costs of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m) and revaluation 
gains/(losses) on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: £(4.7m)).
3
  Includes passengers travelling with our franchise partner, Loganair.
4
  Constant currency is calculated for the 2012/13 year by applying the 
effective exchange rates that prevailed for reporting the 2013/14 
results of $1.55 and €1.18.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 19 And with all of us  
embracing our mission  
together…
Start 
Safety 
Teamwork 
Alignment 
Responsibility 
Transparency
The Purple Way
Our story
Viva Flybe!
Time-saving air travel  
is at the heart  
of our business…
Exeter 
weekend 
away
1
By spreading  
our wings but still  
staying disciplined…
Edinburgh 
Conference
4
Guernsey 
School 
holiday
3
We’ll turn Flybe  
into Europe’s best  
local airline.
London 
Family 
reunion
6
But it’s been very  
painful to get ourselves  
back on track…
Manchester 
Client 
meeting
2
5
Our great opportunity  
is to connect both the  
UK and Europe – and be  
one stop to the world…
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 20 Financial review
Summary
2013/14 has been a year of transformation for Flybe, 
with significant actions taken to reduce the cost base 
and to refocus the commercial operations of the 
business. These have entailed the departure of over 
1,100 employees, a reconfiguration of the routes we 
serve and the closure of six bases at the end of March 
2014. These actions, along with many others, have 
enabled a return to profit from last year’s substantial 
losses, on group revenue that was only slightly ahead 
of 2012/13.
> > The Flybe UK business, which also comprises the 
UK-based contract flying businesses, recorded an 
adjusted profit before tax, restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs
2
 of £3.9m (2012/13: loss of £17.2m),  
and a profit before tax
3
 of £10.3m (2012/13: loss of 
£28.9m). We are one of the leading carriers of UK 
domestic passengers with a 28.3% sector share, the 
largest UK regional carrier for passengers outside  
of London with a 55.1% sector share and our 
passenger numbers grew by 6.9% to 7.7 million  
(2012/13: 7.2 million).
> > The MRO business, Flybe Aviation Services, 
generated a profit before tax of £2.2m  
(2012/13: adjusted profit before tax £0.7m  
before restructuring and surplus capacity  
costs of £5.8m, and a loss before tax of £5.1m).
“ 2013/14 has been a year  
of transformation for Flybe,  
with significant actions taken  
to reduce the cost base and  
to refocus the commercial  
operations of the business.”
Andrew Knuckey
Chief Financial Officer
 £1 .7 m
adjusted profit before tax, net restructuring and 
surplus capacity costs
1
 (2012/13: loss of £23.6m)
 £8 .1m
profit before tax (2012/13: loss before tax 
of £41.1m)
1
  Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs defined as profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring 
and surplus capacity costs of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m) and 
revaluation gains on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: loss  
of £4.7m). Surplus capacity costs represent the costs incurred  
in the year relating to capacity that is considered by management  
to be surplus as a result of restructuring decisions taken in 2012/13. 
2
  Flybe UK adjusted profit before tax, restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs is the segment result after adding back group costs 
of £3.6m (2012/13: £3.6m), net restructuring of £0.2m (2012/13: 
£4.1m) and surplus capacity costs of £1.7m (2012/13: £2.9m) and 
revaluation gains on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: losses  
of £4.7m). Surplus capacity costs represent the costs incurred 
relating to capacity that is considered by management to be  
surplus as a result of the restructuring decisions taken in 2012/13.
3
  Flybe UK profit before tax is the segment result after  
adding back group costs of £3.6m (2012/13: £3.6m).
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 21 Financial review
Continued
> > Flybe Finland generated a loss from the joint venture 
of £0.5m (2012/13: £2.8m) plus associated central 
management costs of £0.3m (2012/13: £0.7m).  
Flybe Finland did not deliver on its expectations  
of generating profits in 2013/14 due to poor 
performance on its scheduled flying operations, but 
the return of two aircraft in Spring 2014 to their lessor 
is expected to help reduce losses on scheduled flying 
in 2014/15.
> > In 2013/14, Flybe has continued restructuring the cost 
base of its UK-based businesses and refocused the 
commercial and operational activities to enable  
it to transform its financial performance and be  
in a position to grow profitably. £10.7m was provided 
in the 2013/14 income statement for restructuring 
costs. However, £10.5m profit was recorded on the 
sale of slots at London Gatwick, resulting in a net 
£0.2m restructuring and surplus capacity cost being 
recorded in the income statement. With a further 
£1.7m of surplus capacity costs being incurred in 
2013/14, total net restructuring and surplus capacity 
costs stood at £1.9m. Other than ownership costs  
on grounded E195 aircraft, we do not expect any 
material further restructuring costs in 2014/15.  
The benefits of these very painful measures are 
significant, with £47m of year-on-year cost reductions 
delivered for 2013/14 and a further £24m of cost 
saving measures targeted for 2014/15.
> > Group costs were in line with last year at £3.6m,  
with a reduction in Board costs being offset  
by higher advisor and other fees.
Following the successful firm placing and open offer  
in March 2014, Flybe had net assets at 31 March 2014  
of £194.1m, total cash of £218.4m, unrestricted cash  
of £177.9m and net funds (i.e. total cash less 
borrowings) of £116.9m.
Revenue under management has grown by 11.1% to 
£868.4m from £781.5m due to the Group’s joint venture 
with Finnair in the Nordic and Baltic region, Flybe 
Finland. 2013/14 saw the first full year of operation  
of the expanded E190 white label operations  
on behalf of our joint venture partner, Finnair.
Group revenue increased by 1.0% to £620.5m, a 
satisfactory performance against the backdrop of major 
restructuring activities throughout the UK business and 
a 1.4% reduction in seat capacity. Flybe UK has shown 
considerable resilience over this period, maintaining  
its UK domestic sector share at 28.3% and grown 
overall passenger numbers by 6.9% to 7.7 million.
Adjusted EBITDAR before restructuring costs 
increased to £98.9m, up 55.7% from the previous year’s 
adjusted EBITDAR of £63.5m, and reported EBITDAR 
increased 77.8% to £98.7m from 2012/13’s £55.5m.  
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax was £8.3m 
(2012/13: loss of £33.1m), and the reported profit  
before tax was £8.1m (2012/13: loss before tax 
of £41.1m). 
Set out below is a reconciliation from operating loss  
to the adjusted EBITDAR figures. All EBITDAR metrics 
are non-GAAP measures.
1
EBITDAR is a common airline profit measure which  
is used for making comparisons between airlines.  
The adjusted EBITDAR measure presented removes 
restructuring costs reported in the income statement.
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
 £m
Change
%
Operating profit/(loss) –  
unadjusted 0.8 (34.6) n/m
Depreciation and  
 amortisation
2
14.3 12.0 19.2
Aircraft rental charges 83.6 78.1 7.0
EBITDAR – unadjusted 98.7 55.5 77.8
Net restructuring  
costs reported in the  
income statement 0.2 8.0 n/m
Adjusted EBITDAR before 
net restructuring costs 98.9 63.5 55.7
The table below sets out a reconciliation from profit/
(loss) before tax to adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 
which adjusts the result for net restructuring costs 
(which include the profit on disposal of the take-off 
and landing rights at London Gatwick to easyJet 
reported in the income statement). 
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
 £m
Change
%
Profit/(loss) before tax – 
unadjusted 8.1 (41.1) n/m
Net restructuring costs  
reported in the  
income statement 0.2 8.0 n/m
Adjusted profit/(loss) 
before tax and net 
restructuring 8.3 (33.1) n/m
 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 22 Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax and net restructuring 
is further adjusted to remove the revaluation (gain)/
loss on USD aircraft loans and the surplus capacity 
costs within the business. This measure demonstrates 
how adjusted profit/(loss) before tax and net 
restructuring might have appeared if it had been 
possible to remove these surplus capacity costs arising 
from restructuring decisions taken in 2012/13.
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
 £m
Change
%
Adjusted profit/(loss)  
before tax and net  
restructuring 8.3 (33.1) n/m
Surplus capacity costs
3
1.7 4.8 n/m
Revaluation (gain)/loss  
on USD aircraft loans (8.3) 4.7 n/m
Adjusted profit/(loss)  
before tax, net 
restructuring and  
surplus capacity costs 1.7 (23.6) n/m
The adjusted profit/(loss) before tax figures given 
above are non-GAAP measures.
1
1
  Non-GAAP measures exclude amounts that are included in the  
most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in 
accordance with IFRS, or are calculated using financial measures 
that are not calculated in accordance with IFRS. The reconciliations 
above describe how the non-GAAP measure is determined from  
the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented  
in accordance with IFRS. The non-GAAP measures are not regarded 
as a substitute for, or to be superior to, the equivalent measures 
calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS or those 
calculated using financial measures that are calculated in 
accordance with IFRS. The non-GAAP measures described may  
not be directly comparable with similarly-titled measures used  
by other companies.
2
  Excludes depreciation on maintenance assets set up in accordance 
with IFRS requirements.
3
   Surplus capacity costs represent the costs incurred relating  
to capacity that is considered by management to be surplus  
as a result of the restructuring decisions taken in 2012/13.
Restructuring the business
The costs incurred in restructuring Flybe’s business 
were as follows:
Incurred
in 
2013/14
£m
Incurred
in
2012/13
£m
Total
 incurred since
restructuring
announcement
£m
Redundancies (9.6) (5.5) (15.1)
Legal, professional and 
other support costs (1.1) (1.2) (2.3)
Other restructuring 
costs – (1.3) (1.3)
Restructuring costs (10.7) (8.0) (18.7)
Profit on London 
Gatwick slot sales 10.5 – 10.5
Net restructuring  
costs reported in the 
income statement (0.2) (8.0) (8.2)
Surplus capacity costs (1.7) (4.8) (6.5)
Restructuring and  
surplus capacity costs (1.9) (12.8) (14.7)
Other than ownership costs on grounded E195 aircraft, 
management does not expect to incur significant 
further restructuring costs in 2014/15.
Legal, professional and other support costs have been 
incurred on negotiating the redundancies mentioned 
above as well as on providing outsourcing services to 
those leaving Flybe. However, the major cost in this 
area is in relation to the provision of specialist services 
around procurement that have helped us to negotiate 
better terms in relation both to rates and payment 
periods from our supplier base. 
Other restructuring costs in 2012/13 related to reducing 
space occupied at the many airports Flybe serves, 
particularly as the outsourcing of services has reduced 
the need for Flybe itself to have local facilities.
In 2012/13, steps were taken to improve the efficiency 
of the UK-located businesses, leading to surplus 
capacity in respect of aircraft (and also crew and 
maintenance staff in 2012/13) being identified and 
incurred in both this year and the previous one. The 
cost savings that would have been made had we been 
able to remove these costs is highlighted above as 
 £ 98 .9m
adjusted EBITDAR before net restructuring costs
2
 
(2012/13: £63.5m)
 £ 98 .7m
unadjusted EBITDAR (2012/13: £55.5m)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 23 Financial review
Continued
surplus capacity costs. Because these costs formed  
a part of the operating cost base during the periods 
under review, it is not possible to identify these costs 
separately within the Financial Statements.
These restructuring costs set out on page 23 and the  
related actions are targeted to deliver the following 
cost savings:
 
Generated
 in 2012/13
£m
Generated
 in 2013/14 
(cumulative)
£m
Targeted
cumulative
 annualised
savings
 from
2014/15
onwards
£m
Staff cost reductions – 22 42
Business efficiency  
and outsourcing 1 17 15
Supplier costs 2 8 14
Total 3 47 71
Other than for staff costs where headcount reduction 
has been the prime driver, other cost lines have 
benefited from the general renegotiation of rates and 
payment terms across the supplier base, and from 
outsourcing activities and marketing and distribution 
cost savings.
Of the £71m target cumulative annual savings from 
2014/15 onwards, £30m has been identified as being 
part of Phase 1 announced in January 2013, and these 
projects are complete. Phase 2, announced in May 
2013, is expected to deliver annualised savings of £15m, 
and these projects are almost complete. The further 
Immediate Actions announced in November 2013 are 
expected to deliver a further £26m of savings from 
2014/15 onwards, and projects comprising some 65% 
of this target have been completed.
Fleet
Flybe UK
In 2013/14, Flybe UK took delivery of a further two  
E175 regional jets from Embraer (out of its firm order 
for 35 E175s), taking the total delivered to 11. No further 
aircraft are contracted for delivery until October 2015.
2013/14 saw the sale of two Q400 owned aircraft  
for a modest book profit.
During the year, four Bombardier Q400 aircraft were 
operated on a contract flying agreement with Brussels 
Airlines that commenced in March 2012. Two of these 
aircraft returned to Flybe service in April 2014 with the 
remaining pair being scheduled to complete their 
contracts by the end of October 2014.
Five E195 regional jets are expected to be handed back 
to lessors in 2014/15 – two are contracted to return in 
the year, and agreement has been reached with 
another lessor for the early hand back of a further 
three E195s (originally scheduled for return in 2015/16). 
Five Q400 aircraft are contracted to return to lessors 
in H1 2014/15. These aircraft are being purchased post-
year end from the lessors in order to provide capacity 
for the expansion at London City commencing in late 
October 2014.
Flybe Finland
One ATR 42 was returned at the end of its operating 
lease to the owner in May 2014 with a further ATR 42 
due to be returned later in June 2014. 
Embraer E175 order
In July 2010, Flybe UK announced the firm order  
of 35 Embraer 175s for delivery between 2011 and 2016. 
Options over a further 65 E-series regional jets were 
cancelled in November 2013. Flybe UK retains 40 
Embraer aircraft purchase rights that do not lapse until 
November 2017. 
In May 2013, Flybe and Embraer agreed delivery 
deferrals for 16 aircraft due for delivery in 2014 and 
2015 to the period from 2017 to 2019, and a further six 
aircraft that were due for delivery in 2016 were 
deferred to 2019. In November 2013 two of the four 
aircraft due for delivery in 2013/14 were deferred to 
October and November 2015.
The following table shows the current number of 
aircraft that are contracted for delivery to the Group. 
No aircraft are due to be delivered to Flybe Finland.
Embraer E175
 regional jet
Flybe UK
2015/16 3
2016/17 5
2017/18 3
2018/19 6
2019/20 7
Total 24
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 24 Fleet under management
The profile of Flybe’s fleet under management in the 
2013/14 year is summarised below:
Number of aircraft
Number
of seats
At 
31 March
 2013
Net
 movements
 in period
At 
31 March
 2014
UK Airline
Embraer E195  
regional jet 118 14 – 14
Embraer E175  
regional jet 88 9 2 11
Bombardier  
Q400 turboprop 78 47 (2) 45
70 – 70
Flybe Finland
ATR 42 turboprop 48 2 – 2
ATR 72 turboprop 68-72 12 – 12
Embraer E170  
regional jet 76 2 – 2
Embraer E190  
regional jet 100 12 – 12
28 – 28
Total 98 – 98
Held on 
operating lease 88 1 89
Owned and  
debt financed 10 (1) 9
Total 98 – 98
Total seats in fleet 8,390 8,410
Average seats 
per aircraft 85.6 85.8
Average age  
of fleet (years) 5.1 5.9
As at 10 June 2014, following the return of four Q400 
turboprop aircraft and purchase of the same four 
Q400 turboprop aircraft by Flybe UK and the return  
of one leased ATR42 by Flybe Finland, the Group’s  
fleet under management was 97 aircraft, consisting  
of 45 Q400s, 13 ATR turboprops, and 39 E-series jets 
of which 13 are owned and 84 leased.
The Group will continue to match capacity to demand, 
particularly in its core UK market. As at 10 June 2014, 
some 10 E195 aircraft were grounded, and Flybe is in 
active discussions with a number of airlines whereby 
these aircraft could be deployed under white label 
operations or sub-leased.
Business results
Flybe’s results analysed by segment are summarised 
below. These results are before tax, other than share  
of joint venture results. 
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
£m
Business revenues:
Flybe UK 599.6 589.4
Flybe Finland 247.9 167.2
MRO 35.4 40.5
Inter-segment sales (14.5) (15.6)
Revenue under management 868.4 781.5
Less: Revenue from  
Flybe Finland joint venture (247.9) (167.2)
Group revenue 620.5 614.3
Business adjusted profit/(loss) 
before tax:
Flybe UK
1
3.9 (17.2)
Flybe Finland (0.8) (3.5)
MRO
2
2.2 0.7
Group costs (3.6) (3.6)
Group adjusted profit/(loss)  
before tax, net restructuring  
and surplus capacity costs
3
1.7 (23.6)
Restructuring and surplus  
capacity costs (1.9) (12.8)
Revaluation gain/(loss)  
on USD aircraft loans 8.3 (4.7)
Group profit/(loss) before tax 8.1 (41.1)
1
  Flybe UK adjusted profit before tax, restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs is the segment profit of £6.7m (2012/13: segment loss 
of £32.5m) after adding back group costs of £3.6m (2012/13: £3.6m), 
net restructuring of £0.2m (2012/13: £4.1m) and surplus capacity 
costs of £1.7m (2012/13: £2.9m) and revaluation gains on USD 
aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: losses of £4.7m).
2
  MRO adjusted profit before tax, restructuring and surplus capacity 
costs is the segment profit of £2.2m (2012/13: segment loss of 
£5.1m) after adding back restructuring of £nil (2012/13: £3.9m)  
and surplus capacity costs of £nil (2012/13: £1.9m).
3
  Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs defined as profit/(loss) before tax, net restructuring 
and surplus capacity costs of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m) and 
revaluation gains on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: loss of 
£4.7m). Surplus capacity costs represent the costs incurred in the 
year relating to capacity that is considered by management to be 
surplus as a result of restructuring decisions taken in 2012/13.
 98
aircraft, 70 in Flybe UK and 28 in Flybe Finland
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 25 Financial review
Continued
Flybe UK
Revenue
2014 2013
£m £ per seat £m £ per seat
Passenger 
revenue 553.9 49.70 551.8 48.84
Contract flying 16.2 12.6
Other revenue 29.5 25.0
Total revenue 599.6 589.4
Flybe UK’s passenger numbers were up 6.9%  
at 7.7 million versus 7.2 million in 2012/13, despite the 
active management of seat capacity, which reduced  
by 1.4% to 11.1 million. 
Passenger revenue per seat was 1.8% higher at £49.70 
(2012/13: £48.84), comprising an increase in load factor 
of 5.4 percentage points (from 64.1% to 69.5%) and  
a reduction in passenger yield from £76.16 to £71.55.
The increase in passenger revenue per seat of 1.4% was 
offset by the 1.8% reduction in seat capacity, meaning 
that passenger revenue increased by 0.4% from 
£551.8m to £553.9m. 
Contract flying for Brussels Airlines generated 
revenues of £16.2m for the provision of four crewed 
Q400 turboprops in arrangements lasting up to two 
years, and expiring in April (two aircraft) and October 
2014 (remaining two aircraft). Other revenue in Flybe 
UK totalled £29.5m, representing an 18.0% increase on 
the £25.0m generated in 2012/13, and arose primarily 
from increases in charter and code-share revenues and 
sale of surplus fixed assets, with other revenue streams 
remaining broadly stable.
Operating costs, excluding restructuring  
and surplus capacity costs
2014 2013
£m
£ 
per seat
(restated)
1
£m
£ 
per seat
£
per seat 
at 
constant
currency
2
Fuel and aircraft 
operations 315.8 28.45 309.8 27.42 28.11
Aircraft  
ownership and 
maintenance 152.2 13.71 141.3 12.50 12.74
Staff and other 
net operating 
expenses 129.9 11.70 157.0 13.89 13.91
Operating costs 597.9 53.86 608.1 53.81 54.76
1
  Operating costs for 2012/13 have been restated to reflect the 
change in segments.
2
  Constant currency is calculated for the 2012/13 year by applying the 
effective exchange rates that prevailed for reporting the 2013/14 
results of $1.55 and €1.18.
Flybe UK – analysis of operating costs 
(before restructuring and surplus capacity costs) 
  
Fuel 20.1%
Aircraft operations 32.7% 
Aircraft ownership
and maintenance 25.5% 
Sta 13.8% 
Other operating costs 7.9% 
  
  
  
  
FLYBE UK’S
COSTS 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 26 Operating costs decreased by 1.7% from £608.1m  
to £597.9m largely as a result of a 17.3%, or £27.1m, 
saving in staff and other net operating costs following 
implementation of the Turnaround Plan and Immediate 
Actions. This saving was offset by a 7.7% increase  
in aircraft ownership and maintenance costs due  
to a larger average fleet in the year (70 aircraft  
versus 68 in 2012/13), higher maintenance costs  
and unfavourable foreign exchange movements.  
In addition, fuel and aircraft operations costs increased 
by 1.9% as a result, mainly, of increases in airport and 
navigation charges. On a constant currency basis, 
underlying operating costs decreased by 3.4% from 
£618.8m in 2012/13 to £597.9m.
On a constant currency, operating costs per seat 
decreased by 1.6% from £54.76 to £53.86, again  
driven by a significant reduction in staff and other  
net operating costs (down 15.9% to £11.70), offset  
by increases in aircraft ownership and maintenance  
(up 7.6% to £13.71) and fuel and aircraft operations  
(up 1.2% to £28.45).
Fuel
Flybe UK’s results are subject to significant change as  
a result of movements in the price of fuel which forms  
a significant variable cost for this business. Although 
2013/14 has seen a reduction in volatility for fuel prices, 
it has been at the expense of that price stabilising at a 
relatively high level – Brent crude has been in the $100 
to $115 a barrel range for most of the year. Overall, the 
price of jet fuel was slightly lower than in 2012/13, 
peaking at $1,047 per tonne on 29 August 2013. Flybe 
UK’s fuel costs decreased to £120.0m in 2013/14 from 
£122.6m in 2012/13. Aviation fuel prices remain capable 
of large and unpredictable movements due to a variety 
of external factors, such as changes in supply and 
demand for oil and oil-related products and the role  
of speculators and funds in the futures markets.
During the year to 31 March 2014, Flybe UK used some 
175,200 tonnes of jet fuel, a reduction on 2012/13 of 
2.3% from 179,300 tonnes. The average market price 
during the year was $974 per tonne (2012/13: $1,018), 
with the Group paying a blended rate (net of hedges) 
of $982 per tonne (2012/13: $1,002). Including ‘into 
plane’ costs, Flybe’s fuel costs in 2013/14 of £120.0m 
(2012/13: £122.6m) represent an all-in cost of  
$1,062 per tonne for 2013/14 (2012/13: $1,101).  
Using constant currency, our fuel costs per seat 
decreased from £11.06 to £10.81.
Flybe UK operates a policy of managing fuel price 
volatility by entering into derivative contracts 
representing a portion (between 60% and 90%)  
of its aviation fuel requirements a minimum of 12 
months forward, from the current date. The intention  
of this programme is to provide a significant element  
of certainty over its fuel costs for any forthcoming 
IATA season. As at 6 June 2014, 75.2% of the year  
to 31 March 2015 was hedged at an average price  
of $960 per tonne. Further details are given in note 36  
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Taking into 
account our hedged position, each $50 increase/
decrease in the price of jet fuel reduces/improves 
group profits in 2014/15 by £2.0m.
 £ 4 9 .7 0 
Flybe UK passenger revenue per seat,  
up 1.8% from £48.84 in 2012/13
 6.9%
Flybe UK passenger numbers increased  
to 7 .7 million (2012/13: 7 .2 million)
2012/13 
Operating cost 
per seat
Foreign 
exchange
2012/13 
Operating cost 
per seat at 
constant currency
Fuel Net airport, en 
route charges 
and ground 
operations
Aircraft 
ownership and 
maintenance 
costs
Sta� costs Marketing and 
distribution 
costs
Other 
operating 
expenses
2013/14 
Operating cost 
per seat
Flybe UK – operating cost per seat, excluding restructuring and surplus capacity costs (£) 
(53.81)
(0.95) (54.76) 0.25
(0.60)
(0.97) 1.74
0.13
0.33
(53.86)
53
54
55
56
57
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 27 Financial review
Continued
Efficiencies have been derived from our fleet 
replacement programme, operational improvements 
and careful management of routes and frequencies. 
Overall, 15.7kg of fuel was consumed for each seat 
flown (2012/13: 15.9kg per seat). This remains  
a significant improvement on the 19.1kg per seat 
consumed in 2007/08 due to our investment  
in a modern, fuel-efficient two-type aircraft fleet  
best suited to regional flying.
Operating costs, including restructuring  
and surplus capacity costs
2014 2013
£m
£
per seat
(restated)
1
£m
£
per seat
£
per seat
at
constant
currency
2
Fuel and aircraft 
operations 315.8 28.45 309.8 27.42 28.11
Aircraft  
ownership and 
maintenance 153.9 13.86 142.5 12.61 12.85
Staff and other 
net operating 
expenses 130.1 11.71 162.8 14.41 14.42
Operating costs 599.8 54.02 615.1 54.44 55.38
1
  Operating costs for 2012/13 have been restated to reflect the 
change in segments.
2
  Constant currency is calculated for the 2012/13 year by applying  
the effective exchange rates that prevailed for reporting the 2013/14 
results of $1.55 and €1.18.
Restructuring and surplus capacity costs
The business incurred costs of restructuring and 
surplus capacity as follows:
Incurred
in 2013/14
£m
Incurred
in 2012/13
£m
Total
incurred 
since
restructuring 
announcement
£m
Redundancies 9.6 2.8 12.4
Legal, professional and 
other support costs 1.1 1.2 2.3
Other restructuring costs – 0.1 0.1
Restructuring costs 10.7 4.1 14.8
Profit on London Gatwick 
slot sales (10.5) – (10.5)
Net restructuring costs 
reported in the income 
statement 0.2 4.1 4.3
Surplus capacity costs 1.7 2.9 4.6
Restructuring and 
surplus capacity costs 1.9 7.0 8.9
These costs are discussed in more detail on pages 23 
and 24.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs improved by £13.7m due to  
a £13.0m non-cash, non-underlying movement on the 
retranslation of US Dollar denominated debt used to 
fund the acquisition of aircraft, particularly the newer 
E175 regional jets, from a loss of £4.7m in 2012/13  
to a gain of £8.3m in 2013/14. The movement  
in this US Dollar liability cannot be naturally offset 
against the value of the aircraft as the latter are 
recorded in pounds Sterling in order to comply with  
the requirements of International Financial Reporting 
Standards. This income statement charge has therefore 
been removed in arriving at adjusted profit before tax.
Foreign exchange
The Group foreign currency hedging policy has an 
objective to reduce the volatility of costs. Flybe 
manages its foreign exchange positions based on its 
net foreign currency exposure, being foreign currency 
expenditure less associated revenue. Flybe UK 
currently has a relatively small net exposure to the 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 28 Euro, but has significant US Dollar costs in relation to 
fuel, maintenance, aircraft operating leases and loan 
repayments. The Group generates no significant 
US Dollar revenue and actively manages its US Dollar 
position through a foreign exchange forward purchase 
programme similar to that outlined for fuel. As at  
6 June 2014, 72.2% of our anticipated US Dollar 
requirements for the year to 31 March 2015 were 
hedged at an average exchange rate of $1.59. 
All existing derivative financial instruments are  
forward swap arrangements.
Taking into account our hedged position, each $0.05 
reduction/improvement in the US Dollar exchange rate 
has the effect of reducing/increasing Flybe UK’s profits 
in 2014/15 by approximately £4.4m.
Carbon emissions
The Group is required to purchase carbon allowances 
for all flights departing from and arriving into the EU  
in order to offset its carbon footprint in each calendar 
year. Flybe manages its exposure by purchasing carbon 
emissions allowances through a forward purchase 
programme to top up the free allowances awarded to it 
under the scheme. The table below sets out Flybe UK’s 
emissions and carbon allowances for each of the 
periods under review:
Calendar year
2014 
Budget
2013 
Actual
Anticipated carbon  
allowances required, tonnes 494,800 555,900
Free allowance allocation, tonnes 259,800 259,800
Proportion hedged at beginning  
of period 99% 53%
Effective carbon rate €5.52 €4.00
Flybe Finland
Flybe Finland’s results are summarised as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Flybe Finland joint venture
Revenue
Contract flying 216.7 132.4
Passenger revenue 26.9 30.6
Other revenue 4.3 4.2
247.9 167.2
Costs
Fuel (62.3) (41.3)
Other operating costs (186.6) (132.4)
(248.9) (173.7)
Profit/(loss) before tax
White label 6.3 4.6
Scheduled flying (7.3) (11.1)
Total (1.0) (6.5)
Tax 0.2 1.6
Loss after tax (0.8) (4.9)
60% share of Flybe Finland  
joint venture loss (0.5) (2.8)
Other net costs including interest (0.3) (0.7)
Business result – Flybe Finland (0.8) (3.5)
With revenue of £247.9m (2012/13: £167.2m) and  
costs of £248.9m (2012/13: £173.7m), Flybe Finland 
generated a significantly smaller loss before tax of 
£1.0m (2012/13: £6.5m loss). A tax credit of £0.2m 
relating to deferred tax on the losses generated was 
also reported, resulting in a loss after tax for Flybe 
Finland of £0.8m (2012/13: loss after tax £4.9m). The 
small loss remains disappointing, although there has 
been a significant turnaround from the previous year. 
Flybe Finland’s white label operation for  
Finnair accounted for 2.7 million passengers  
(2012/13: 1.6 million passengers). Contract flying  
will continue to dominate this business and this  
white label activity recorded a profit of £6.3m  
(2012/13: £4.6m).
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 29 Financial review
Continued
In the six aircraft scheduled flying operation, passenger 
numbers on commercial flying represented 0.3 million 
passengers (2012/13: 0.4 million) with a load factor of 
44.0% (2012/13: 41.8%), and the business reported a 
loss of £7.3m (2012/13: £11.1m loss). In addition to the 
removal of two lines of flying from Summer 2014, 
further action is necessary to improve financial 
performance in Flybe Finland’s scheduled flying,  
and Flybe is in discussions with Finnair on a number  
of actions. 
The exposures of Flybe’s joint venture in Finland  
to fuel price and exchange rate volatility have been 
monitored during 2013/14, but no hedging has yet 
been undertaken due to the minimal nature of the 
underlying exposure. This is because Flybe Finland’s 
leases are denominated in Euros, its main operating 
currency, leaving fuel prices and US Dollar exposure  
on fuel and maintenance costs as its primary 
exposures. These costs are currently smaller exposures 
to the business and are related to the commercial 
rather than contract flying operations. Management 
will continue to monitor these exposures and hedge 
them should they become significant.
Central overhead costs, net of interest amounted to 
£0.3m (2013: £0.7m). Further details on the joint 
venture’s performance are given in note 16 to the 
Financial Statements.
MRO
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Change
%
Revenue 35.4 40.5 (12.6)
Operating costs before 
restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs (33.2) (39.8) 16.6
Adjusted profit/(loss) 
before tax, restructuring 
and surplus capacity 
costs 2.2 0.7 n/m
Restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs – (5.8) n/m
Profit/(loss) before tax 2.2 (5.1) n/m
MRO revenue declined by 12.6% in 2013/14 to £35.4m 
(2012/13: £40.5m), of which £20.9m was for third party 
customers (2012/13: £24.9m). This decrease was driven 
by the 13.5% decline in man hours from 526,000 hours 
in 2012/13 to 455,000 hours. This, in turn, resulted from 
lower fixed costs and available capacity in the MRO 
business following phases 1 and 2 of the Turnaround 
Plan. This cost reduction programme led to a 16.6% 
reduction in operating costs from £39.8m to £33.2m, 
and a significantly improved profit performance.
Restructuring and surplus capacity costs
The division incurred no costs of restructuring and 
surplus capacity in the year, compared with £3.9m  
of restructuring and £1.9m of surplus capacity costs 
incurred in the prior year. These costs are discussed  
in more detail on pages 23 and 24.
Group costs
Group costs of £3.6m (2012/13: £3.6m) include Group 
Board salary costs and group related legal and 
professional fees. The reduction in Board costs in the 
year has been offset by higher advisor and other fees.
Profit/(loss) before and after tax
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax, revaluation  
gain on USD aircraft loans, restructuring and surplus 
capacity costs was £1.7m (2012/13: loss of £23.6m).
After net restructuring and surplus capacity costs  
of £1.9m (2012/13: £12.8m) and non-cash gains  
on USD aircraft loans of £8.3m (2012/13: loss of £4.7m), 
the Group’s reported profit before tax was £8.1m  
(2012/13: £41.1m loss).
Profit after tax was £8.0m (2012/13: loss after tax 
£42.2m). The current year tax charge was £0.1m 
(2012/13: £1.1m).
EPS and dividends
Basic earnings per share for the year were  
9.6p, compared with loss per share of (56.0)p  
in 2012/13. Adjusted loss per share (see note 13  
to the Consolidated Financial Statements) was  
(0.2)p, compared with adjusted loss per share  
of (39.1)p for 2012/13.
No dividends were paid or proposed in either  
the current or prior financial year.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 30 Cash flow
2014
£m
2013
£m
Change
£m
Net cash inflow/(outflow) 
from operating activities 
before restructuring 7.3 (1.6) 8.9
Cash flows from 
restructuring activities (12.8) (1.4) (11.4)
Net cash outflow from 
operating activities 
after restructuring (5.5) (3.0) (2.5)
Net proceeds from  
issuing new equity 150.1 – 150.1
Net capital income/ 
(expenditure) after 
disposal proceeds 21.7 (33.0) 54.7
Net (repayment)/ 
proceeds from new loans (10.7) 18.5 (29.2)
Acquisition of joint 
venture interest – (0.3) 0.3
Net interest paid (1.0) (1.8) 0.8
Net increase/(decrease) 
in cash and cash 
equivalents 154.6 (19.6) 174.2
Cash and cash  
equivalents 
at beginning of year 23.3 42.9 (19.6)
Cash and cash 
equivalents at end  
of year 177.9 23.3 154.6
Restricted cash 40.5 31.4 9.1
Total cash 218.4 54.7 163.7
Net cash inflows from operating activities before 
restructuring were £7.3m (2012/13: outflow of £1.6m). 
However, the cash flows as a result of restructuring 
have resulted in an overall net cash outflow from 
operating activities after restructuring of £5.5m 
(2012/13: outflow of £3.0m).
The most significant cash flow benefit was the  
£150.1m of net cash proceeds from the issue  
of new equity on 12 March 2014. 
The largest movements in net capital income were 
proceeds of £17.5m being received from easyJet on 
sale of the slots at London Gatwick, £12.3m proceeds 
from sale of two Q400 aircraft in May and £11.8m  
in relation to pre-delivery deposits for new aircraft  
being returned to Flybe during the year following 
negotiations with Embraer to reschedule deliveries. 
Repayment on loans exceeded those drawn down  
on a new loan related to the acquisition of an Embraer 
E175 regional jet.
Group cash ﬂow (£m) 
Free cash at 
March 2013
Proﬁt for 
period
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Net working 
capital before 
restructuring 
costs
Restructuring 
and 
surplus 
capacity costs
Transfer to 
restricted 
cash
Investing 
activities 
(including 
slot sales)
Net proceeds 
from equity 
fund raise
Financing 
activities
Free cash 
at March 2014
Restricted
cash
Total cash 
at March 2014
23.3
8.0
14.3 (5.9)
(12.8)
(9.1)
22.4
150.1 (12.4)
177.9
40.5 218.4
0
50
100
150
200
250
 £2 18.4m
total cash including restricted cash  
(2012/13: £54.7m)
 £1 94. 1m
total assets (2012/13: £48.1m)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 31 Financial review
Continued
Balance sheet
2014
£m
2013
£m
Change
£m
London Gatwick  
landing slots – 8.5 (8.5)
Aircraft 147.0 140.4 6.6
Other property, plant  
and equipment 23.6 25.0 (1.4)
Interest in joint ventures 12.4 13.2 (0.8)
Net funds/(debt) 116.9 (66.3) 183.2
Derivative financial 
instruments (7.6) 4.2 (11.8)
Other working capital – net (105.4) (81.5) (23.9)
Deferred taxation 4.5 2.0 2.5
Other non-current  
assets and liabilities 2.7 2.6 0.1
Net assets 194.1 48.1 146.0
All of Flybe’s landing slots were sold to easyJet for  
a gross cash consideration of £20.0m. The sale was 
approved by shareholders on 2 August 2013 with  
£7.5m of cash deposit received on that day, £10.0m  
in November 2013 with the balance of £2.5m received 
in May 2014. 
The £147.0m of net book value of aircraft represents 
owned aircraft, engines and aircraft modifications,  
with one further Embraer E175 aircraft being acquired 
with debt finance.
After Flybe’s share of joint venture losses of £0.5m  
in 2013/14 plus associated central management costs 
of £0.3m, the carrying value of the interest in joint 
ventures at 31 March 2014 stood at £12.4m  
(2013: £13.2m).
Net funds at 31 March 2014 of £116.9m (2013: net debt 
of £66.3m) benefited from the £150.1m of net cash 
proceeds from the issue of new equity on 12 March 
2014 and reflected the capital inflows referred to in the 
cash flow section on page 31. Borrowings decreased by 
£19.5m to £101.5m as a result of the new loan to fund 
an Embraer E175 delivered during the year being less 
than the loans on the two Q400 aircraft sold during 
the year (classified as assets held for sale at 31 March 
2013) and normal repayments on loan agreements. 
Net funds at 31 March 2014 includes restricted cash 
of £40.5m (£31.4m at 31 March 2013) which represents, 
predominantly, cash held with the Group’s bankers 
to facilitate card acquiring services and guarantee 
arrangements with suppliers, and cash deposits held 
in favour of aircraft owners to secure operating lease 
arrangements. Since the year end, a net £10.6m  
of restricted cash has been released by the  
Group’s bankers.
The mark-to-market valuation of derivative financial 
instruments moved from an asset of £4.2m at 31 March 
2013 to a liability of £7.6m, as foreign exchange rates 
and fuel prices moved against Flybe’s portfolio of 
contracts. Net negative other working capital increased 
from £81.5m to £105.4m, largely due the sale of two 
Q400 aircraft in May 2013 which were reported as 
assets held for sale at 31 March 2013, higher current 
maintenance provisions and increased current  
deferred income being offset by a decrease  
in trade and other payables.
The balance sheet also includes the impact of the 
defined benefit pension scheme deficit of £2.5m.  
At March 2013, this scheme, which is closed to future 
benefit accrual, had been in surplus with no amounts 
being reported in the balance sheet.
Shareholders’ equity increased by £146.0m to £194.1m, 
driven principally by issue of new shares and the profit 
generated in the period. 
Covenants
The Group has certain financial performance  
covenants in relation to some of its aircraft financing 
agreements. These specify performance, depending  
on the contractual terms, against a series of tests, 
which are, performed either quarterly, half yearly  
or annually. Flybe has met all the terms of the 
covenants tested since the inception of the 
arrangements to 31 March 2014 (see note 24  
to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
Country and currency risk
Flybe’s UK and European businesses operate in a 
global market place. Most of Flybe’s customers are 
based in Europe, although the MRO business also has 
customers in Africa and the central Asian republics. 
Most of Flybe’s revenues are derived from UK-based 
customers (about 85% of group revenue) and the  
joint venture operations largely from those based  
in Finland and Sweden. Aircraft are bought and sold  
in US Dollars as are other key costs such as fuel and 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 32 aviation insurance. Airport and en route charges are 
payable in a mix of Sterling and Euros and the further 
development of European operations will mean greater 
exposure to Euro revenues and costs. This is further 
considered in the Risks and uncertainties section on 
pages 34 to 37 and note 36 ‘Financial instruments’.
Going concern
Flybe’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position, are set out in the Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer’s statements on pages 8 and 14.  
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and 
liquidity position, and events since the balance sheet 
date are described in the financial performance section 
of these statements on pages 9 and 15 and in the 
Financial Review on pages 21 to 33. In addition,  
note 36 covers Flybe’s financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk  
and liquidity risk.
Flybe had free cash balances of £177.9m at  
31 March 2014, and has met all of its operating  
lease commitments and debt repayments  
as they have fallen due during the year.
Flybe faces trading risks presented by current 
economic conditions in the aviation sector, particularly 
in relation to passenger volumes and yields and the 
associated profitability of individual routes.
The Group is exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices  
and foreign exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to 
hedge between 60% and 90% of estimated exposures  
12 months in advance. As of 6 June 2014, Flybe had 
purchased 72.7% of its anticipated fuel requirements 
and 70.5% of its anticipated US Dollar requirements  
for the following twelve months.
The Directors have prepared a detailed trading budget 
and cash flow forecast for a period which covers at 
least 12 months after the date of approval of these 
Financial Statements. Having considered the forecasts 
and making other enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that Flybe has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
Annual Financial Statements.
Andrew Knuckey
Chief Financial Officer
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 33 Risks and uncertainties
Risk description Potential impact
Inherent risk trend 
(movement against 
prior year) Mitigation
(a) Safety and security
Failure to prevent  
a safety or security-
related incident 
including terrorist 
threat, or attacks  
from either internal  
or external sources or 
to respond adequately 
to a safety or security-
related event.
Significant adverse 
effect on Flybe’s 
reputation, financial 
results and operational 
performance.
Safe and secure operation is the  
key priority for all of Flybe’s 
management and staff. Flybe operates 
a strong safety management system 
(see page 38) and has appropriate 
systems and procedures in place, 
including trained staff, to respond 
effectively to any such incidents.
(b) Extraneous matters
Flybe is exposed to 
sustained deterioration 
in general economic 
conditions, and 
reduction in domestic 
and regional air travel, 
particularly in the UK.
Adverse pressure on 
revenue and load 
factors, and negative 
impact on Flybe’s 
growth prospects, 
financial condition and 
the value of its assets, 
particularly, aircraft.
Flybe monitors route performance 
within its commercial teams and 
adjusts flying patterns to customer 
demand.
Flybe’s fleet planning is designed to 
provide it with the most fuel-efficient 
aircraft available under a mix of 
ownership and lease terms.
Reduced reliance on scheduled flying 
activities through increased contract 
flying activities.
Flybe operates in a 
highly competitive 
aviation market.
Adverse effect on 
market share leading  
to reduced revenue  
and profits.
Flybe has a strong position in the 
markets where it operates and extends 
the reach of its brand through 
franchising, joint ventures and 
alliances. Processes are in place to 
monitor and report on route by route 
performance and competitor activity 
and to react rapidly where necessary.
Trend key
 Same  Increase  Decrease N New
This section describes the principal risks and uncertainties which may affect Flybe’s business, financial results 
and prospects.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 34 Risk description Potential impact
Inherent risk trend 
(movement against 
prior year) Mitigation
Regulatory changes in 
the airline industry may 
have an adverse impact 
on an airline’s costs, 
operational flexibility, 
marketing strategy, 
business model and 
ability to expand.
Adverse impact on 
reputation, costs and 
market share coupled 
with decline in growth 
opportunities.
Management engages with 
Governments through direct contact 
and membership of industry 
organisations.
Airlines may be 
adversely affected by 
increases in Air 
Passenger Duty in the 
UK and its equivalent in 
other countries, and by 
any future amendment 
with regard to 
regulation of emissions 
trading and other 
environmental laws  
and regulations, or 
negative environmental 
perception of the  
airline industry.
Increased costs and 
reduced demand across 
the airline industry 
which may result in 
reduced profitability  
for Flybe.
Reduced demand  
for aviation across  
the industry.
Management monitors Governments’ 
proposals with regard to changes  
in planned approach to aviation 
taxation and engages with 
Governments through direct contact 
and membership of industry 
organisations. Flybe seeks to pass  
on additional duties to its passengers 
through its pricing approaches.
Flybe continues to be compliant  
with the new ETS regime.
Flybe operates fuel-efficient aircraft 
for its flying pattern and seeks to 
develop further fuel efficiencies 
through changes in its practices.
Flybe is exposed  
to the failure  
or non-performance  
of commercial 
counterparties as well 
as requiring the services 
of key suppliers such  
as airports, air traffic 
control systems, and 
fuel supply companies.
Adversely affect Flybe’s 
reputation, financial 
results or operational 
performance. 
Most suppliers can be replaced  
by an alternate. Contract negotiation 
teams are highly experienced and 
knowledgeable of the industry with  
a strong track record of developing 
value for Flybe.
Flybe is exposed to the 
effects of extraneous 
events, such as 
epidemics, natural 
occurrences or 
disasters (eg. severe 
weather or ash  
cloud disruption).
Reduced demand, 
market share and 
revenue, any of which 
may adversely affect 
Flybe’s financial results 
or operational 
performance.
Flybe has procedures in place to 
respond to such events, and to 
communicate effectively with 
passengers and other stakeholders.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 35 Risks and uncertainties
Continued
Risk description Potential impact
Inherent risk trend 
(movement against 
prior year) Mitigation
(c) Reputational risk 
Flybe is exposed to an 
event damaging its fleet 
reputation, company 
reputation or brand.
Reduced demand, 
market share and 
revenue, any of which 
may adversely affect 
Flybe’s reputation, 
financial results  
or operational 
performance.
Flybe has a strong culture  
of safety management and a 
positive business culture supported 
by a code of ethics and appropriate 
HR policies. Flybe has procedures  
in place to respond to events with 
the potential to cause damage  
to its reputation or brand, and  
to communicate effectively with 
passengers and other stakeholders.
(d) IT Systems and the internet
Flybe is heavily 
dependent on its 
information technology 
systems, the ongoing 
development of those 
systems, and the 
internet to operate its 
business. The incidence 
of cyber-attacks has 
increased worldwide 
and Flybe is exposed  
to this as a result of its 
reliance on the internet 
for a high proportion  
of delivery of its sales.
Loss of systems or 
connectivity to the 
internet, as a result  
of internal or external 
threat, could lead to 
disruption and lost 
revenue with an adverse 
impact on Flybe’s 
financial condition.
Breaches in IT security, 
or fraud, could 
adversely affect Flybe’s 
brand and reputation, 
and have an adverse 
impact on revenue.
Inability to implement 
successful development 
could lead to Flybe’s 
business plans not 
being fulfilled.
A disaster recovery plan is in place  
and includes moving certain 
operations to other sites.
Flybe contracts with third parties  
for the provision of IT services and 
solutions where the service is subject 
to disruption or could be lost entirely. 
Where Flybe uses third parties to 
supplement its own resources, 
effective processes relating to 
contract review, compliance and 
management are in place to mitigate 
the consequent risks that arise.
Flybe has robust security procedures 
in place which are tested and reviewed 
by independent third parties.
Flybe operates an 
e-commerce business 
and deals with a 
significant amount of 
personal and business 
information.
A security breach  
could lead to material 
reputational damage.
Flybe has robust security procedures 
in place which are tested and reviewed 
by independent third parties.
Trend key
 Same  Increase  Decrease N New
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 36 Risk description Potential impact
Inherent risk trend 
(movement against 
prior year) Mitigation
(e) Relationships with our people
Flybe is dependent  
on good industrial 
relations, across  
all its regions (with  
a workforce that is,  
in significant part, 
unionised), and is 
exposed to shortages 
of key personnel.
Adversely affect Flybe’s 
reputation, financial 
results and operational 
performance.
Flybe has well-developed consultation 
and negotiation processes with  
its employees and its unions, and 
continues to ensure its employment 
remuneration reflects current  
market conditions and practices  
that are supported by succession 
planning policies. 
(f) Financial risks
Flybe is exposed to 
risks associated with:
(i)  Fluctuations in fuel 
prices and foreign 
exchange rates.
Adverse movements  
in these areas can 
adversely affect both 
Flybe’s profit and 
financial position.
While hedging cannot guarantee 
against significant long-term price 
changes, a well-established hedging 
strategy is in place that is designed  
to provide certainty over a significant 
proportion of Flybe’s cost base  
in the coming 12 months –  
see pages 27 to 29.
(ii)  Unavailability of 
suitable financing.
Lack of adequate liquid 
resources could result 
in business disruption 
and adversely affect 
Flybe’s financial results.
Flybe’s policy seeks to maintain 
appropriate levels of free cash  
(15 weeks at 31 March 2014) which  
will be available to meet costs in the 
event that our normal activities are 
temporarily disrupted by, for example, 
severe weather, volcanic ash, extended 
industrial dispute or fleet grounding. 
( i i i )  C o n t in uin g 
performance of 
counter-parties.
There is a risk of 
material loss in  
the event of non-
performance by  
these counter-parties.
Flybe’s policy is to invest surplus funds 
and enter into hedging agreements 
only with counter-parties that meet 
certain credit rating criteria.
(iv)  Failure to remove 
grounded aircraft 
costs, or have to 
take delivery of new 
aircraft surplus to 
requirements.
Adversely affect Flybe’s 
financial results.
Flybe is in a number of discussions 
with other airlines and lessors about 
removing grounded aircraft costs, and 
with aircraft manufacturers to ensure 
aircraft deliveries, and types of 
aircraft, match Flybe’s requirements.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 37 Corporate responsibility
Safety
Flybe is committed to developing, implementing, 
maintaining and constantly improving strategies and 
processes to ensure that all our aviation activities take 
place under an appropriate allocation of organisational 
resources, aimed at achieving the highest level of 
safety performance, while delivering our services.
Flybe’s Safety Policy recognises that safety is everyone’s 
personal responsibility whether an employee, passenger, 
contractor, visitor or supplier and is a primary 
responsibility of all managers and employees. All levels 
of management and employees are accountable for 
delivery of the Group’s safety performance, starting  
with the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, managers 
ensure that our Safety Policy is implemented and 
understood by all employees and contractors. 
Hazards resulting from our operations and activities are 
analysed and their risk assessed in order to eliminate, 
mitigate or manage the safety risks to or below 
acceptable levels. 
All personnel are encouraged to report any safety 
issue, irrespective of the cause, in the knowledge that 
Flybe operates in an open, fair and balanced way that 
does not attribute blame – a ‘Just Culture’.
The Flybe Safety and Security Review Committee 
(‘SSRC’), chaired by an independent Non-Executive 
Director, meets quarterly and is charged with holding 
the operational executive management team to 
account for all safety and compliance matters, 
reporting directly to the Board. The SSRC is chaired  
by Alan Smith but, after his retirement in August 2014, 
Timo Anderson will chair this committee. 
The Flybe Safety Management System (‘SMS’) 
coordinates all safety activity across the Flybe 
operation. This allows safety data derived from  
both normal operations and safety events to be used  
in the review of operational procedures and training. 
Flybe encourages all employees to report any safety 
issue, irrespective of the cause, in the knowledge  
that it operates a no-blame culture, with all incidents 
investigated objectively and thoroughly. The SMS  
is reviewed on a monthly basis at the Safety Action 
Group chaired by the Head of Safety and Compliance. 
Actions from these meetings are reviewed at the 
quarterly Strategic Review Board chaired by Flybe’s 
Director of Operations, John Palmer.
Additional oversight is demonstrated through Flybe’s 
membership of IATA and it has held the International 
Operational Safety Audit (‘IOSA’) accreditation since 
October 2007.
Compliance monitoring (quality assurance)
The establishment and maintenance of an effective 
compliance monitoring function ensures not only an 
effective and efficient operation but also a safe one. 
The compliance monitoring function oversees all 
operational activity and consists of two teams.  
The first is dedicated to the airline, covering:
> > the Air Operator’s Certificate
> > Approved Training Organisation; and
> > EASA Part M, aircraft continuing airworthiness.
The second team is dedicated to the MRO and covers:
> > the Part 145, for an aircraft maintenance organisation
> > Part 147, for an engineering licence type training 
organisation
> > Part 21G, for a production organisation; and
> > Part 21J, for a design organisation.
Both the compliance monitoring managers have a direct 
line of report to the Accountable Manager who has 
overall responsibility for the safe operation of Flybe’s 
activities under civil aviation legislation in the UK.
Health and safety
There is total commitment at Flybe to the health,  
safety and well-being of its customers and employees. 
The Executive Management continues to demonstrate 
its commitment to health and safety through proactive 
initiatives and close liaison with staff and union 
representatives. The number of key managers receiving 
National Examination Board in Occupational Safety 
and Health (‘NEBOSH’) accreditation has increased 
though Flybe does not content itself merely with 
compliance.
Health and safety is incorporated into its SMS and 
overseen, ultimately, by the SSRC. Policies and 
procedures are drawn up with the full involvement  
of unions and Flybe’s HR team to ensure not  
only compliance but the safest achievable  
working environment.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 38 People engagement
Flybe is only as good as its talented team, which 
endeavours to deliver an excellent service to its loyal 
customers every day. During the year, the Company 
has undertaken an important rightsizing programme 
that will ensure its cost of employment remains 
competitive. The Company’s goal is to have the  
right people in the right jobs and for Flybe to be  
an attractive workplace in which a long-term and 
challenging career can be built on equality of 
opportunity. It is proud to be one of the very few 
airlines that enables many of its employees to live 
where they work – locally, within the regions both  
in the UK and in the European business.
In 2014 Flybe is launching an employee engagement 
programme called ‘The Purple Way’ to align all 
employees with the Company’s strategy and journey  
to become Europe’s Best Local Airline. The 
engagement programme will be followed by a 
customer service training programme called  
‘Flybe Loves Service’.
Launch of the Purple Way.
Values
Flybe is committed to certain core principles. These are 
expressed in its People Strategy or ‘The Way We Do 
Business’ that includes our ‘START’ values of:
> > S: Safety – no compromises
> > T:  Teamwork – ‘One Flybe’: collaboration as a way 
of life
> > A:  Alignment – acting with urgency and embracing 
our goals and ‘The Purple Way’
> > R: Responsibility – take accountability and ownership
> > T: Transparency – open, upfront, authentic and share
Our people
As at 31 March 2014, Flybe employed 1,960 employees 
across seven regional UK bases with another 690 
employed by our joint venture in Finland. Nearly 22%  
of our UK employees worked part-time or flexibly  
to balance their lifestyle needs and now over 75%  
of its employees have more than five years’ service and 
an average attendance rate of over 96%. Unfortunately, 
the impact of the widespread restructuring programme 
has led to over 1,100 employees leaving the business 
including a significant change in the Flybe Leadership 
Team of senior managers.
Talent development
Flybe’s aim is to develop and promote talent internally 
and the Training Academy delivers both the Group’s 
capacity to provide high quality training for its own 
employees and those of third parties. This state-of-the-
art facility has 26 classrooms, a simulator hall with 
capacity for four aircraft simulators, cabin crew 
simulator hulls for safety and refresher training, and an 
engineering apprentice workshop. Qualifications 
include a flight deck Multi-Crew Pilot’s Licence (under 
the first CAA-approved scheme for a UK airline), cabin 
crew and customer service NVQs and engineering 
aircraft type approvals. Flybe already has students 
engaged on the diploma in engineering, which after 
four years will provide successful students with a 
foundation degree level qualification, a BTEC and 
diploma in engineering and a Part 66 engineering 
licence. Flybe also continues to operate its Mentored 
Airline Pilot Scheme that part-sponsors pilot training 
through the provision of an interest-free loan as well  
as maintaining its relationships with UK and European 
flying schools for potential pilots.
Management development
To engage a dispersed workforce, line management 
has been empowered to lead and the majority of our 
people managers have completed the Flybe Leader 
initiative in the UK. This is a bespoke 12-month modular 
development programme that can progress to an 
Institute of Leadership and Management qualification 
or further to a Foundation Degree in Leadership  
and Management.
Flybe’s Operating Board has also introduced  
an annual performance management system  
as well as a succession planning process as part  
of its commitment to developing key talent.
 2 ,6 5 0
Group and joint venture employees  
at 31 March 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 39 Corporate responsibility
Continued
Benefits
Flybe aims to provide fixed and variable pay and  
short- and long-term benefits (including insured 
benefits) that, in the round, are affordable, competitive 
in its marketplace, performance-led and flexible.  
UK employees have been able to participate in the 
Group’s Share Incentive Programme (‘SIP’) under 
which all eligible employees were awarded 100 free 
shares shortly after Flybe’s IPO and the Group’s 
approved Save As You Earn Scheme (‘SAYE’) launched 
in 2011. Flybe operates a Group Personal Pension Plan 
(or equivalent in relevant territories) and almost 95%  
of employees have elected to participate and benefit 
from employer’s contributions to their personal  
fund. Flybe has salary sacrifice schemes to include 
pensions and buying extra days off work and  
child-care vouchers.
Employee communication
In both the UK and in its joint venture, Flybe continues 
to focus on active two-way communications with  
its dispersed workforce through line management, 
regular Your Flybe email and intranet updates,  
as well as through its recognised trade union partners. 
Additionally, in the UK, Flybe uses its consultative  
body known as Open Channel. Open Channel meets 
quarterly, is chaired by a member of the Operating 
Board and is attended by up to 25 elected 
representatives.
Flybe has an ongoing employee engagement 
programme ‘The Purple Way’. The purpose is to share 
the Group’s vision and strategy with all employees 
through a series of connection workshops and 
emotionally engage them on the journey the  
Company is on.
Flybe also utilises surveys to seek feedback from staff. 
The first of these was initiated in Spring 2014 and the 
results will be available later in the year.
Safety Culture Diagnostic – facilitated by external 
consultants and aimed at improving safety awareness 
for all employees. The diagnostic consists of an online 
survey, focus groups and individual interviews and 
results in a structured risk-based action plan.
Employee satisfaction – managers review results with 
their teams and agree actions or areas to focus on to 
improve employees’ experience of work. Year-on-year 
improvement is sought both in terms of level of 
participation and the actual results themselves. 
Human rights
Flybe operates entirely with staff employed in the EU 
and consequently has not developed a separate, all 
encompassing human rights policy. Detailed policies 
and procedures exist, among others, around:
> > Equality and diversity – see below
> > Grievances
> > Disciplinary procedures
> > Whistle-blowing
> > Harassment and bullying
> > Bribery.
In addition, Flybe uses its relationship with its 
employees to raise, air and resolve issues, whether  
this is through Open Channel or its established  
trade unions.
Equality and diversity
Equality of opportunity and valuing diversity are 
central to the regional activities of Flybe and it aims  
to ensure that all employment decisions are based  
on fairness and merit.
Applications for employment by an individual from any 
background, including disabled persons, are always 
fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the 
applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff 
becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that 
their employment with the Group continues and that 
appropriate training, career development and 
promotion of disabled persons should, as far as 
possible, be identical to that of other employees. 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 40 The breakdown of employees by gender is as follows:
31 March 2014 31 March 2013
Male Female Male Female
No. % No. % No. % No. %
Board 6 100 - 0 9 90 1 10
Senior management (Flybe Leadership Team) 32 80 8 20 35 85 6 15
All other employees of the Group 1,117 58 797 42 1,562 58 1,151 42
Employees of Flybe Finland 388 56 302 44 422 61 265 39
1,543 58 1,107 42 2,028 59 1,423 41
Community and charitable activities
Flybe undertakes a number of community and 
charitable activities. These are focused on supporting 
the local communities where the Company is based,  
as well as harnessing the fundraising power  
of employees and customers.
Flybe has sponsored a number of local community 
events and activities. These include:
> > Shirt sponsor, Exeter City FC
> > Sponsorship, Exeter Chiefs Rugby Club 
> > Sponsorship, Newquay AFC
> > Jersey Rugby Football Club, help with  
complimentary flights
Flybe’s partnership with Cancer Research UK 
celebrated its fifth anniversary, since launching the 
partnership the airline has raised over £486,000.
Environment
In its first ten years of operations, Flybe has  
made it a centrepiece of its commitment to 
environmental sustainability to operate one of the most 
environmentally sensitive fleets in aviation – our goal of 
reducing both noise and emissions remains consistent.
Flybe supports the view that human activity, including 
air travel, is contributing to global climate change. 
Although aviation accounts for around 2% of global 
CO 2 emissions, Flybe is committed to being an industry 
leader in minimising its environmental impact wherever 
possible while continuing to provide vital air services  
to our passengers.
In this respect, Flybe’s policy continues to be to:
> > Commit to a system for managing its environmental 
impact in order to comply with all applicable current 
legislation and, where practical, seek to meet future 
legislative requirements ahead of relevant deadlines
> > Implement a training programme for staff to enhance 
environmental awareness, constantly informing  
and motivating colleagues, to enlist their support  
in improving Flybe’s performance
> > Integrate the Company’s environmental objectives 
into business decisions, where feasible, in a cost-
efficient manner
> > Develop appropriate emergency response plans  
for major incidents in order to minimise their 
environmental impact
> > Encourage the adoption of similar principles  
by its suppliers.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 41 Corporate responsibility
Continued
Waste and energy management remains a key focus 
area for Flybe. Recycling policies are already in place  
at all major premises and sustainability has become  
a key focus area for its procurement.
Management of buildings has incorporated, wherever 
possible, the latest environmentally-friendly techniques.
Aircraft impact upon the environment in two key areas: 
locally to airports and over the course of a journey.  
In 2007, Flybe introduced an ‘Ecolabel’ rating for its 
aircraft which has been designed to provide customers 
with a range of information regarding the noise and 
carbon emissions for each flight. The label identifies 
the noise rating and also the emissions made during 
the normal take-off and landing cycle of a flight and 
also the carbon emissions for the total flight based  
on a range of distances.
Fuel usage and emissions
Each Bombardier Q400 aircraft produces 30% to 40% 
lower emissions on routes where it has replaced similar 
capacity, older generation aircraft or 50-seat jets. This 
equates to 6,000 to 8,000 fewer tonnes of CO 2 in the 
air every year for each Q400. Over the course of last 
two years, the introduction of E175 jets is proving 
successful with early indications showing significant 
improvement on fuel burn to the manufacturer’s 
published data. Future developments include 
aerodynamic packages that are being developed to 
generate further improvements in fuel consumption, 
carbon emissions and noise profile.
While CO 2 emissions are identified as the primary 
contributor to global warming, other pollutants are  
also harmful to the environment and have dedicated 
limitations regulated by the International Civil Aviation 
Organisation (‘ICAO’). The Embraer E-series jets  
in Flybe’s service produce certified emissions 
significantly lower than the more stringent CAEP/6 
regulations set by ICAO’s Committee on Aviation 
Environmental Protection.
The airline’s Flight Efficiency Programme, introduced  
in 2009 has resulted in a 13.4% reduction over the 
average in-flight fuel burn before the programme  
was launched. The programme relies on finely tuned 
strategies to reduce fuel consumption. These include 
lowering the aircraft’s maximum operational cruise 
speed by an average of 20 knots and optimising 
performance during each phase of flight (climb profile, 
approach from cruise altitude, low speed decent and 
APU use). There are also complex tankering strategies 
for refueling from the lowest cost vendor. 
While the programme sets the parameters, the minute-
to-minute decisions made by Flybe’s flight crews are 
what makes a real difference. These decisions are 
based on the dynamic fuel efficiency reports, which 
evaluate each crew’s performance in flight. The Flight 
Efficiency Programme is part of a toolbox of different 
items crews can use to assess costs in a dynamic 
operating environment.
A further development over the last twelve months has 
been that of the use of single engine taxi-ing on the 
Q400 fleet.
Similar measures have been introduced to the Embraer 
fleets this year and further CO 2 savings are anticipated.
Emissions Trading Scheme (‘ETS’)
Since the introduction of aviation into the European 
ETS on 1 January 2012, Flybe have complied fully  
with the requirements of the scheme to submit an 
independently verified report of its CO 2 emissions  
and purchase equivalent carbon allowances under  
the scheme to offset its carbon footprint. 
The amount of CO 2 emitted by the Company is 
predominantly driven by its flying activities and,  
as fuel is a significant proportion of Flybe’s operating 
expenditure, it is heavily incentivised to reduce fuel 
usage and hence its CO 2 emissions. While step changes 
in lower CO 2 emissions require both major advances in 
technologies associated with next-generation aircraft 
and a substantial global investment in the production 
and supply of biofuels, there exist a number of 
opportunities for the Company to reduce its CO 2 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 42 emissions in the medium-term. For example, Flybe 
pilots are trained in economic flying techniques  
that involve:
> > Seeking direct routings between the departure 
airport and the arrival airport
> > Flying at speeds that are economical for the engine’s 
performance
> > Planning descents into airports, with air traffic  
control assistance, that allow for the most fuel-
efficient approach.
Flybe supports initiatives which provide for an 
international framework for governing aviation 
emissions so long as this is consistent with, and not 
supplementary to, the European ETS. It remains 
concerned about the imposition of specific aviation 
taxes, some of which purport to be linked to 
environmental objectives. Flybe has campaigned  
for some time for the reform of UK Air Passenger  
Duty and for the per passenger tax to be replaced  
with a per plane tax which is linked to the emissions  
of the aircraft and their deployment. 
Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Emissions Report
The Directors of Flybe Group plc present the 
greenhouse gas emissions report for the Group  
for the year ended 31 March 2014. Flybe’s GHG 
emissions data is intended to comply with the 
reporting requirements of the Climate Change Act 
2008. Emissions include all data reported from its sole 
operating subsidiary, Flybe Limited and 60% of data 
reported by our joint venture partner, Flybe Finland, 
using the financial control approach.
The information presented follows the 2013 UK 
Government environmental reporting guidance.  
The Group has also adopted the GHG Protocol Value 
Chain (Scope 3) Standard, but Flybe is not as yet  
able to report on all categories that may be relevant. 
The figures relate to the required elements of each 
scope 3 category and some of the optional elements. 
2013 UK Government’s Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting were used in converting  
activity data into carbon emissions.
 
Greenhouse gas emissions data for 2013/14
2013/14
1
tCO 2 e
2
Scope 1
Aviation fuel 738,236
Other fuels 712
Total Scope 1 738,948
Scope 2
Electricity – UK 2,241
Electricity – overseas 203
Total Scope 2 2,444
Scope 3
Water supply and waste disposal 18
Business travel air/car 492
Total Scope 3 510
Gross and net emissions 741,902
1
  Base year not provided as 2013/14 will be the first year of data 
collection and will therefore become the base year.
2
  t CO2e is the number of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and  
is the universal unit of measurement to indicate the global warming 
potential (‘GWP’) of each of the six greenhouse gases, expressed  
in terms of the GWP of one unit of CO2.
Specific exclusions:
> > Emissions from air conditioning and refrigeration 
units in office buildings excluded due to unavailable 
data. These are estimated to account for less than 
0.5% of total of Scope 1 emissions
> > Emissions from taxi, bus and rail business travel  
are excluded due to unavailable data. These are 
estimated to account for less that 0.5% of total  
of Scope 3 emissions.
 1 5 .7kg
Flybe UK fuel burn per seat  
(2007 /08: 19.1 kg)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 43 Corporate responsibility
Continued
Intensity measurements
The Group’s carbon emissions are principally made  
up of emissions from flying activities. In order  
to allow comparison between its peers, the  
chosen measurement is emissions per passenger 
kilometre flown. 
For 2013/14, which will be the starting base for future 
comparison, the Group’s total emissions per passenger 
kilometre were 147.3 g/km.
Base year
Flybe intends to have a fixed base year of 2013/14.  
This year has been chosen as this is the first year for 
which Flybe has reliable data and is typical in respect 
of its operations. The Group’s policy on base year 
recalculation is to recalculate the base year and the 
prior year emissions for relevant significant changes 
which meet its significance threshold of 5% of base 
year emissions.
Rainwater harvesting
Flybe’s state-of–the-art training academy, based in 
Exeter, has a rainwater harvesting system for re-use 
within that building. 
Noise
The Q400 is rightfully heralded as one of the quietest 
passenger turboprop aircraft in the world. Inside the 
Q400, the revolutionary Active Noise and Vibration 
Suppression system significantly reduces noise and 
vibration, making it as quiet and comfortable as a jet. 
Outside, it is considerably quieter than jets with a 
similar number of seats (10 Decibels of Exterior 
Perceived Noise quieter).
Flybe’s commitment to reducing the impact to local 
communities is demonstrated by its latest E-series 
order. Working closely with the manufacturer, Embraer, 
Flybe developed a noise reduction kit that has been 
fitted to all of Flybe’s E175 aircraft in order to reduce 
further the effect of noise on the local environment.
Approval of Strategic Report
The report was approved by the Board of Directors 
on 10 June 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Knuckey
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 44 Chairman’s statement on corporate governance
Dear shareholder
Flybe is committed to the highest standards  
of corporate governance, and will endeavour to 
continue to meet these standards at all times. We 
believe in living these standards, not just in conforming 
to rules and regulations by ‘ticking boxes’. Excellent 
corporate governance is however not an end in itself.  
It is a means to the end of achieving a high performing 
company that delivers value to its stakeholders,  
while taking account of its responsibilities  
to the wider community.
The regulatory and reporting landscape for UK listed 
companies continued to evolve during 2013, with the 
introduction of the Strategic Report, new requirements 
to report on greenhouse gas emissions, and a new 
formal requirement on the Board to ensure that  
the Annual Report presents a ‘fair, balanced and 
understandable’ assessment of the Company’s financial 
position and future prospects. We have planned 
carefully to comply as closely as possible with these 
new requirements, together with the enhanced 
disclosures required by the Audit Committee, although 
we recognise that best practice will evolve as 
companies gain experience with the new regulations 
and feedback is received from both investors  
and regulators.
This year’s Annual Report also contains, for the  
first time, the full implementation of the new 
requirements on remuneration reporting. This now 
includes a binding shareholder vote on remuneration 
policy in addition to a vote to adopt the Remuneration 
Report (as set out on pages 66 to 83 of this report). 
The Board is very sensitive that its prime objective in 
setting out its remuneration policy is to promote the 
success of the Company in line with the strategy and 
the risk profile agreed by the Board. It must, however, 
do so with the approval of its shareholders, who  
are the prime beneficiaries of such a strategy.
The Board has reviewed its own structure and believes 
that a small well-balanced board, with a majority  
of committed, diverse, informed and energetic  
Non-Executive Directors continues to be an important 
part of our corporate governance. Building on the 
considerable change over the last 12 months, the  
Board will continue to develop further along these  
lines over the next year. 
Although not required to do so under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will 
nevertheless submit themselves for re-election  
at the 2014 Annual General Meeting (the ‘AGM’).
The Board has engaged widely with shareholders 
during the year, not least during the capital raise,  
and we are delighted to welcome so many new 
shareholders to our register during the year. Effective 
communication with shareholders is a key strategic 
priority and over 50 meetings have been held with 
investors during the year. All shareholders are 
encouraged to attend the AGM in July where the 
Directors and executive team will be available to  
meet shareholders directly and to discuss any matters  
of importance to them. Additional materials such  
as annual and interim reports, results and other 
announcements are available via Flybe’s website  
at www.flybe.com/en/corporate/investors.
Simon Laffin
Non-Executive Chairman
“ The Board has engaged widely with 
shareholders during the year, not least 
during the capital raise, and we are 
delighted to welcome so many new 
shareholders to our register during 
the year.”
Simon Laffin
Non-Executive Chairman
Overview Strategic report Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 45
Governance Board of Directors
With the exceptions as noted 
below, all of the other Directors, 
Company Secretary and Operating 
Board identified served throughout 
the year.
Executive Directors
Saad Hammad
Chief Executive Officer (aged 51) –  
appointed 1 August 2013
Saad Hammad joined Flybe as  
Chief Executive Officer on 1 August 
2013. He has considerable airline 
experience having been Chief 
Commercial Officer of easyJet plc 
from 2005 to 2009. Mr Hammad 
was a Non-Executive Director of  
Air Berlin plc and as of 25 April 
2014, is a Non-Executive Director  
of Pegasus, the leading Turkish 
low-cost carrier. He has also held 
senior executive roles at a number 
of leading corporations, including 
The Gores Group, Procter  
& Gamble, Thorn-EMI, Vision 
Express and Tibbett & Britten.  
Mr Hammad is a member of the 
Nominations Committee.
Andrew Knuckey
Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary (aged 53)
Andrew Knuckey joined Flybe  
in 2005, having previously had  
a 24 year career with KPMG LLP,  
latterly as a partner in audit and 
transaction services. Mr Knuckey 
played a key role in the successful 
acquisition and integration of BA 
Connect, following which he was 
appointed as Chief Financial  
Officer at Flybe in April 2007.  
As Chief Financial Officer, he 
helped deliver the IPO on the 
London Stock Exchange in 2010 
and, more recently, the design  
and implementation of Flybe’s 
Turnaround Plan. He also chairs  
our joint venture with Finnair. 
Mr Knuckey will leave the Board  
in August 2014 after expiry of his  
12 month notice period, and will  
be replaced by Philip de Klerk.
Independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Simon Laffin
Independent Non-Executive 
Chairman (aged 55) –  
appointed 4 November 2013
Simon Laffin was appointed  
to the Flybe board as Independent 
Non-Executive Chairman in 
November 2013. Mr Laffin is 
Chairman of Assura Group Limited, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
at Quintain Estates & Development 
PLC and an adviser to Dentsu Inc. 
Previously he was Group Finance 
and Property Director at Safeway 
plc between 1994 and 2004 and 
has served as a Non-Executive 
Director at Aegis Group Plc, 
Mitchells & Butlers plc and Northern 
Rock plc (as part of the rescue 
team), an adviser to CVC Capital 
Partners, and Chairman of Hozelock  
Group. Mr Laffin chairs Flybe’s 
Nominations Committee  
and sits on the Audit and  
Remuneration Committees.
Charlie Scott
Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (aged 65)
Charlie Scott was formerly 
Chairman of William Hill plc from 
2004 until 2010. He is a chartered 
accountant and was previously 
Chief Executive Officer at Saatchi  
& Saatchi plc and Chairman of 
Cordiant plc. Mr Scott has held 
other non-executive positions, 
including with airport group  
TBI plc. Mr Scott chairs Flybe’s 
Audit Committee and sits  
on the Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 46 Alan Smith
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (aged 67)
Alan Smith is currently Chairman  
of Fisher Leisure Holdings Limited. 
His career has included being 
Managing Director of Superdrug 
Stores plc, B&Q plc and The 
Victoria Wine Company Limited 
before working for the Boddington 
Group Limited as Group Managing 
Director. In 1996, Mr Smith moved 
to Evans Halshaw Holdings plc as 
Group Chief Executive before 
becoming Chief Executive of 
Somerfield plc from 2000 until 
2002. Mr Smith chairs Flybe’s 
Safety and Security Review 
Committee and sits on the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. Mr Smith will retire 
from the Board on 31 August 2014.
David Longbottom
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (aged 69)
David Longbottom is currently 
Pro-chancellor and Chairman  
of the Board of Governors of 
London South Bank University. 
Mr Longbottom was formerly 
Chairman of executive search firm, 
Horton International (UK) Limited, 
the Senior Independent Director  
of Luminar Leisure plc and a 
director of DSG International plc 
where he held a number of senior 
positions within the Dixons Group 
plc after joining in 1987 (including 
Group Human Resources Director). 
Previously, Mr Longbottom  
worked with British Gas plc, 
Courtaulds plc and Lloyds  
of London. Mr Longbottom  
chairs Flybe’s Remuneration 
Committee and sits on the 
Nominations Committee.
Sir Timothy Anderson
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (aged 57)
Sir ‘Timo’ Anderson was appointed 
to the Board as Non-Executive 
Director with effect from 1 May 
2014. Sir Timo established the  
UK Military Aviation Authority  
(the body responsible for military 
aviation regulation and safety), 
becoming its first Director General 
from 2010 to 2013. Prior to that  
Sir Timo was Assistant Chief of  
Air Staff, Royal Air Force. He served 
in the Royal Air Force from 1979 
going on to hold senior command 
appointments. Sir Timo has joined 
the Safety and Security Review 
Committee, and will chair that 
committee following Mr Smith’s 
retirement from the Board.  
He has also joined the  
Nomination, Remuneration  
and Audit Committees.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 47 Operating Board
The Board is supported in its day-
to-day running of the Group by the 
Operating Board, which comprises 
(in addition to Messrs Hammad and 
Knuckey) the following members, 
together with dates appointed  
to the Operating Board if during 
2013/14:
Paul Simmons
Chief Commercial Officer  
(aged 49) – appointed  
28 October 2013
Paul Simmons joined Flybe in 
October 2013 from easyJet where, 
for the last five years, he led their 
team in the UK as Director, UK 
Market. Prior to easyJet, 
Mr Simmons held senior 
commercial positions at Oberoi 
Hotels Group (EVP – Sales & 
Marketing) and IHG (Global VP, 
InterContinental Brand) and a 
variety of marketing roles at Procter 
& Gamble, S.C. Johnson, Helene 
Curtis/Unilever and Kelloggs.
John Palmer
Director of Operations (aged 52) –  
appointed 17 September 2013
John Palmer joined Flybe in 2006 
as Director of Aviation Services and 
previously held senior management 
roles in British Airways, Virgin 
Atlantic and Zurich Financial 
Services. He was promoted  
to Director of Airline Operations 
and Deputy COO in 2009 before 
becoming, in 2011, Managing 
Director, Flybe Aviation Support. 
Appointed as Director of 
Operations in August 2013, 
Mr Palmer is now responsible for all 
aspects of the Flybe’s operations, 
including Flybe Finland Oy, and  
is a member of the Safety and 
Security Review Committee.
Simon Charles
Director of Human Resources and 
Health and Safety (aged 47)
Simon Charles joined Flybe in 
January 2007 from RHM Plc  
where he was Group Director  
of Organisation and People 
Development and part of the 
management team involved in the 
initial public offering of shares  
in RHM plc. He has spent 25 years in 
human resources within significant 
companies having been European  
HR Director at Quaker Inc. and held 
management positions with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Pepsico 
Inc. and Unilever plc. Mr Charles  
is a member of the Safety and 
Security Review Committee.
Matt Bennett
Director of Internal Audit, Risk  
and Special Projects (aged 38) – 
appointed 10 October 2013 
Matt Bennett, a Chartered 
Accountant, joined Flybe  
in January 2012, as the Director  
of Internal Audit, Risk and Special 
Projects to set up the Company’s 
first Internal Audit function. 
Mr Bennett has commercial 
auditing experience having led the 
audit function for four years at the 
Rank Group PLC, and more recently 
for six years in a joint Director of 
Financial Control and Audit role for 
Sony Computer Entertainment 
(Sony PlayStation). Mr Bennett 
reports to the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Audit Committee. 
Matt Linsey
Acting Director of Information 
Technology (aged 38) –  
appointed 25 October 2013
Matt Linsey joined Flybe in 
December 2003 as a Systems 
Architect to direct the design 
activities of Flybe’s IT department. 
Mr Linsey brings 14 years’ 
experience of IT previously 
contracting in various sectors 
including military, education and 
e-commerce. He was promoted to 
Head of IT Services in 2006 and 
then to Head of IT Development  
in 2008 before being made Acting 
Director of IT in October 2013 to 
oversee all IT delivery and 
operations for Flybe. 
Other Executive and  
Non-Executive Directors  
who served but resigned 
during the period are:
> > Anita Lovell, Non-Executive 
Director – resigned 17 May 2013
> > Peter Smith, Independent  
Non-Executive Director – 
resigned 8 July 2013
> > Jim French, Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer –  
resigned as Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 August 2013 and 
Chairman on 4 November 2013
> > Mark Chown, Director  
of Corporate Strategy –  
resigned 4 August 2013
> > Mike Rutter, Managing Director  
of Flybe Outsourcing Solutions –  
resigned 4 August 2013
> > Andrew Strong, Managing 
Director of Flybe UK –  
resigned 4 August 2013
Philip de Klerk will join Flybe as 
Chief Financial Officer in August 
2014. Mr de Klerk will join Flybe  
from SABMiller, where he was 
Global Head of Financial Planning & 
Analysis and Finance Director of the 
Business Capabilities Programme. 
Prior to this, he was Chief Financial 
Officer of Ineos Olefins & Polymers 
Europe and spent 16 years at 
Unilever in a variety of roles.
Company Secretary 
Andrew Knuckey, Chief  
Financial Officer, has taken  
on the responsibilities of this role 
after Chris Simpson resigned  
on 7 March 2014. He will hand on 
this role to Annelie Carver who joins 
Flybe as Company Secretary and 
General Counsel on 23 June 2014 
from Michelmores Solicitors,  
where she was a partner in their 
corporate and commercial team.
Board of Directors
Continued
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 48 Corporate governance 
This report sets out how the Company applied the 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 
2012 (the ‘Code’) in the year to 31 March 2014. A copy 
of the Code can be found at www.frc.org.uk/
corporate/ukcgcode. The Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules require the Company to  
set out how it has applied the main principles of the 
Code and to explain any non-compliance. 
Statement of compliance 
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance and has fully considered the 
provisions of the Code. The Board considers that the 
Company is a ‘smaller company’ for the purposes  
of the Code which defines this as a company which  
has been below the FTSE350 throughout the year 
immediately prior to the reporting year. Throughout 
the year ended 31 March 2014, and up to the date of 
approval of this Annual Report, the Board considers 
that it and the Company have complied with the best 
practice provisions set out in the Code as it applies to 
‘smaller companies’, with the following exception in 
place until 4 November 2013: 
> > The Code recommends that the roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer should be separated and 
clearly defined. Jim French served as both Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of the Group until the 
appointment of Saad Hammad as Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 August 2013. Jim French stepped down 
as Chairman on the appointment of Simon Laffin  
on 4 November 2013.
The following paragraphs explain how the Company 
has applied the principles of good governance  
and the code of best practice set out in the Code. 
Group Board
Simon Laffin
(Chair)
Timo Anderson Timo Anderson Timo Anderson Timo Anderson
David Longbottom
(Chair)
Alan Smith
(Chair)
Charlie Scott
(Chair)
David Longbottom Charlie Scott John Palmer Alan Smith
Saad Hammad Simon Laffin Simon Charles Simon Laffin
Charlie Scott Alan Smith
Alan Smith
Audit Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety & Security 
Review Committee
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 49 The Board is led by the Chairman, Simon Laffin,  
who is responsible for ensuring its effectiveness  
in all aspects of its role. The Board’s key purpose  
is to provide the entrepreneurial leadership and vision 
necessary to ensure the Company’s prosperity by 
collectively directing the Company’s affairs while 
meeting the appropriate interests of its shareholders 
and stakeholders. In addition to business and  
financial issues, the Board of Directors must deal  
with challenges and issues relating to corporate 
governance, corporate social responsibility and 
corporate ethics. It has the ultimate responsibility for 
setting the Company’s overall strategy and long-term 
direction and provides entrepreneurial leadership 
within a framework of effective controls which permit 
risk to be assessed and managed. The Board has 
responsibility for approving the Financial Statements, 
significant acquisitions and disposals, major non-
recurring projects and major capital expenditures.
The Board
Structure and leadership
At 31 March 2014 the Board comprised six  
Directors, of whom four are Non-Executive  
and two are Executive.
Executive Directors
Saad Hammad 
Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Knuckey
Chief Financial Officer
Non-Executive Directors
Simon Laffin
 Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Charlie Scott
Deputy Chairman and Senior  
Independent Non-Executive  
Director
Alan Smith
 In dep en den t N o n - E x e c u t i v e  
Director
David Longbottom
Independent Non-Executive  
Director
The Board 
considered
FINANCIAL  
PERFORMANCE
GOVERNANCE
CASH 
POSITION
DAY-TO-DAY 
ACTIVITIES
  Board composition  
and membership
  C o m m i t te e 
performance  
and membership
  Risk management
  Engagement with 
investors
  Gatwick slot 
disposal
  Equity fund raising
  Short-term cash 
forecasts
  Monthly results
  Budgets and 
forecasts
  Annual and half 
year results 
announcements
  Cost control
  Ca p e x
  Resource allocation
  O rg a n i s a t i o n 
structure
Corporate governance 
Continued
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 50 The Directors’ biographies appear on pages 46  
and 47 illustrate the range of experience which ensures 
an effective Board to lead and control the Group. 
Further details of changes to the membership of the 
Board are given on page 48. The size of the Board 
represents an appropriate combination of executive 
and non-executive directors for the size of the business 
and allows individuals to communicate openly and 
freely and to contribute through the exercise of their 
personal skills and experience. The Directors have  
a complementary range of financial, commercial, 
operational and entrepreneurial experience which,  
in the opinion of the Board, provides it and its 
committees with the necessary balance of skills, 
diversity, independence and knowledge of the  
Group to enable them to discharge their respective 
duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed  
on merit and for their specific areas of expertise  
and knowledge. Their wide-ranging experience and 
backgrounds ensure that they are able to challenge 
and debate matters constructively both in relation to 
development of strategy and performance against 
objectives set by the Board.
The Company has governance procedures in place to 
ensure that, on resignation, concerns, if any, raised by 
an outgoing non-executive director are circulated by 
the Chairman to the remaining members of the Board. 
None of the Directors who resigned during the year 
have raised concerns.
Key activities of the Board
Aside from day-to-day management issues,  
the Board has focused on turning around the  
financial performance of the business, focussing  
on the Phases 1 and 2 of the Turnaround Plan and the 
Immediate Actions initiated by Saad Hammad when  
he joined as Chief Executive Officer in August 2013. 
Although there has been a substantial impact on our 
workforce, these vital actions have had the desired 
effect with £47m of cumulative cost savings achieved 
in 2013/14. We are on track to increase this to the  
£71m target annual savings for 2014/15.
In addition, the Board oversaw the successful equity 
fund raise in March 2014, which saw the Group raise  
net proceeds of £150.1m at a share price only 7.2% 
lower than the previous closing price, and also saw the 
introduction of several new institutional shareholders. 
As a result, Flybe’s free float at 31 March 2014 was 
95.0%, compared with 37.4% at March 2013.
Operation of the Board
In carrying out its work, the Board focuses on key 
tasks, which include receiving reports on safety, 
security and health, business risks, long-term strategy, 
the Group’s trading performance, the work of its 
Committees and the actions of the Operating Board 
and senior management. The Board delegates specific 
responsibilities, with written terms of reference,  
to its Committees details of which appear below.  
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend 
meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the 
respective Chairmen.
The Executive Directors review and discuss with the 
Board all strategic projects and all material matters 
currently or prospectively affecting the Group and its 
performance. The Board delegates its authority for 
executive management to the Chief Executive Officer, 
who leads the Operating Board, subject to monitoring 
by the Board and those items referred to above.
To enable the Board to function effectively, and to 
assist the Directors to discharge their responsibilities,  
a comprehensive set of papers is provided in advance 
of each Board and Committee meeting. These include 
regular business progress reports, budgets, financial 
statements and shareholder information. The Company 
Secretary manages the provision of information to the 
Board in consultation with the Chairman.
The Board held ten scheduled meetings during the 
year. In addition the Board met on several occasions on 
an ad hoc basis to deal with urgent business, including 
the consideration and approval of transactions where  
a decision was required before the next meeting.  
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and 
the Non-Executive Directors have met without the 
Chairman and Executive Directors being present. 
The Board requires all directors to devote sufficient 
time to their duties and to use their best endeavours  
to attend meetings. The table below details the 
Directors’ attendance at the scheduled Board and 
Committee meetings during the year. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 51 Corporate governance 
Continued
Directors in office as at 31 March 2014 
Year ended 31 March 2014 Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety & 
Security 
Review
Committee
Executive Director
Saad Hammad 6/6 n/a 1/1 n/a n/a
Andrew Knuckey 10/10 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Non-Executive Director
Simon Laffin 3/3 1/1 1/1 2/2 n/a
David Longbottom 10/10 n/a 5/5 6/6 n/a
Charlie Scott 10/10 6/6 5/5 6/6 n/a
Alan Smith 10/10 6/6 5/5 6/6 4/4
Former Directors who served during the year
Year ended 31 March 2014 Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety & 
Security 
Review
Committee
Executive Director
Jim French 6/7 n/a 2/4 – n/a
Mark Chown 4/4 n/a 1/2 n/a n/a
Mike Rutter 4/4 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Andrew Strong 3/4 n/a n/a n/a 2/2
Non-Executive Director
Anita Lovell 0/2 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Peter Smith 4/4 n/a n/a 1/1 2/2
Independence
The Board considers each of its Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent in character and 
judgement and no one individual, or group of 
individuals, dominates the Board’s decision making.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors (other than Anita 
Lovell, who represented Rosedale) who served during 
the year have been identified as independent on the 
basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.3.1  
of the Code and, generally, are free from any business 
or other relationship which could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Diversity 
All recruitment for the Board is led by the Nomination 
Committee. We recognise that diversity, in its widest 
sense, is important for the Board’s effectiveness. 
However the Non-Executive Directors have been 
appointed on merit alone and specifically for their 
contributions from their knowledge and experience. 
Their wide-ranging experience and backgrounds 
ensure that we can debate matters in relation to both 
the development of strategy and performance against 
the objectives set by the Board. We believe that the 
diverse backgrounds of the individual Directors ensure 
we have a Board with the optimum combination of 
skills and experience needed to support the business. 
As a result no targets have been established for the 
composition of the Board, whether in terms of racial 
background or gender.
Overall information on the gender diversity  
of the Board and the Group as a whole is given  
on pages 40 and 41.
Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the 
Company’s Articles of Association permit the Board  
to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise actual  
or potential conflicts of interest which may arise and  
to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.  
The Board has established a formal procedure  
whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest can 
be recorded by each Director and authorised by the 
Board. The decision to authorise a conflict can only  
be made by non-conflicted Directors (those who  
have no interest in the matter being considered)  
and in making such a decision the Directors must  
act in a way they consider in good faith will be most 
likely to promote the Company’s success.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 52 Directors’ indemnity and insurance cover
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, throughout the year the Directors have 
been, and continue to be, indemnified to the fullest 
extent permitted by law. Appropriate Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance cover is arranged and 
maintained via the Company’s insurance brokers,  
Willis, and its terms are reviewed annually.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board has approved a schedule of matters 
reserved for decision by it. This schedule is available 
for inspection at the Company’s registered office  
and on the Company’s website at www.flybe.com/en/
corporate/governance. The matters reserved for 
specific approval by the Board can be subdivided into 
a number of key areas including but not limited to:
> > reviewing the Group’s overall safety and  
security arrangements
> > approving the Group’s long-term objectives  
and strategy 
> > approving the Group’s annual operating and capital 
expenditure budget
> > Group financial reporting and controls including the 
approval of interim and final financial statements, 
interim management statements and dividends 
> > ensuring a sound system of internal controls  
and risk management
> > decisions relating to acquisitions, disposals  
and major items of capital expenditure
> > Board and Committee membership and  
succession planning
> > remuneration 
> > corporate governance matters
> > approving certain of the Group’s policies
Matters requiring Board approval are generally the 
subject of a proposal by the Executive Directors 
submitted to the Board, together with supporting 
information, as part of the Board, or Committee, 
papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting. 
Board performance and evaluation 
The Board has considered and supports the Code’s 
provisions on Board performance evaluation. It has 
discussed its own performance, but decided that given 
the degree of change at Board level in the last year, 
there would be little value in a more formal self-
evaluation process at this stage. The Non-Executive 
Directors meet regularly without the Executive 
Directors present, and have also met without the 
Chairman in order to evaluate his performance.
Induction and continuing development 
of Directors
All new Directors receive a tailored induction on joining 
the Board, including meetings with senior management 
and advisers and visits to major operating bases and 
locations. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
are responsible for reviewing the development needs 
of individual directors. All the Non-Executive Directors 
have, during the course of the year, attended briefings 
and seminars relevant to their role, including updates 
on best practice in audit and remuneration issues  
and economic affairs in general, as well as bringing 
knowledge and information gathered from their  
other business interests.
All Directors have access to the advice and services  
of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the 
Chairman on matters of corporate governance and 
provides the Board with regular updates on relevant 
legislation, regulations and governance best practice. 
The Directors may, at the Company’s expense, take 
independent professional advice where necessary  
and appropriate to do so.
Directors’ election and re-election
All directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, 
being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.  
A biography for each of these directors, together with 
a description of the skills and experience they possess 
that the Company considers relevant, will be included 
in the proposals put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has served more 
than nine years in office.
Any changes to the commitments of any Director are 
always considered by the Board to ensure they will 
continue to have sufficient time to enable them to fulfil 
their duties with the Company. The Board is satisfied 
that all of the Directors continue to perform effectively 
and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including 
commitment of time for Board and Committee 
meetings and any other duties which may be 
undertaken by them from time to time.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 53 Corporate governance 
Continued
Operational management of the Group
Beneath the Board there is in place a clear and 
appropriate apportionment of responsibilities amongst 
the senior managers designed to ensure that the 
business can be managed and monitored effectively. 
Senior managers report to the Operating Board which 
in turn reports to the Board. The Operating Board  
is led by the Chief Executive Officer and comprises  
the Executive Directors together with the Chief 
Commercial Officer, Director of Operations, Director  
of Human Resources and Health and Safety, Director  
of Internal Audit, Risk and Special Projects and the 
Acting Head of Information Technology. It has 
responsibility for implementing on a day to day basis 
the strategy that has been agreed by the Board. 
Operating Board members report regularly to the 
Board on key issues.
Board committees
In accordance with the principles laid down in the 
Code, the Board has established a committee structure 
to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities. Details 
of each of the Audit, Mergers and Acquisitions, 
Nomination, Remuneration, and Safety and Security 
Review Committees, and the members, roles and 
activities thereof are detailed below. The Mergers and 
Acquisition Committee was disbanded during the year 
and its responsibilities passed back to the Audit 
Committee and the Board. Each Committee reports to, 
and has terms of reference approved by, the Board 
which are available for review on Flybe’s website at 
www.flybe.com/en/corporate/governance or on 
request from the Company Secretary. The minutes of 
the meetings of the Committees, where appropriate, 
are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board. 
Biographies of each Board member are set out  
on pages 46 and 47.
Audit Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to provide formal 
and transparent arrangements for considering how  
to apply the financial reporting, risk management  
and internal control principles set out in the Code,  
and to maintain an appropriate relationship with  
the Company’s auditor.
Members of the Audit Committee can, where they 
judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, 
obtain independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense.
Charlie Scott, a Chartered Accountant, has chaired the 
Audit Committee throughout the year and the Board 
considers that he has the appropriate recent and 
relevant experience to enable him to fulfil this role.  
In addition, both Simon Laffin, who was appointed 
during the year and is also a qualified accountant  
and Alan Smith serve on the Audit Committee. The Code 
permits smaller companies to have an Audit Committee 
comprising a minimum of two independent Non-
Executive Directors and the Board is satisfied that Flybe 
is a smaller company for this purpose. The Board is 
satisfied that the members of the Audit Committee are 
those who are best able to contribute to its objectives.
Commercial
Group Board
(chaired by Simon Laffin)
Operations Finance
HR and 
Health  
& Safety
IT
Internal 
Audit, Risk 
and Special 
projects
Paul 
Simmons
John 
Palmer
Andrew 
Knuckey
Simon 
Charles
Matt  
Linsey
Matt 
Bennett
Operating Board
(chaired by Saad Hammad)
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 54 The responsibilities of the Remuneration  
Committee include:
> > determining and agreeing with the Board the 
framework or broad policy for the remuneration  
of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, all other 
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and any 
other members of the executive management that 
the Board delegates to it ensuring that such policy 
provides appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance and, in a fair and responsible 
manner, rewards executives for their individual 
contributions to the success of the Company.  
When setting policy, have regard to trends across  
the Company, in other companies and to the 
provisions of the Code and associated guidance
> > determining the total individual remuneration 
package of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,  
all other Executive Directors, the Company  
Secretary and any other members of the executive 
management that the Board delegates to it including 
bonuses, incentive payments and share options  
or other share awards
> > approving the design of, and determining the targets 
for, any performance related pay schemes operated 
by the Company and approving the total annual 
payments made under such schemes
> > approving the design of all share incentive plans  
for approval by the Board and shareholders, 
determining on an annual basis whether awards  
will be made, and if so the amounts of such awards  
in total and to individuals
> > determining the policy for, and scope of, pension 
arrangements for each executive director and other 
designated senior executives 
> > overseeing any major changes in employee benefits 
structures throughout the Group
> > recommending an annual report for the Board to  
put to shareholders on the Company’s remuneration 
policies and practices compliant with relevant legal 
and regulatory provisions
> > ensuring that contractual terms on termination and 
payments made are fair to the individual, and the 
Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the 
duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised
The Remuneration Committee is authorised  
by the Board to:
> > be exclusively responsible for establishing the 
selection criteria and then for selecting, appointing 
and setting the terms of reference for any 
remuneration consultants providing advice to the 
Remuneration Committee, at the Company’s expense
> > to obtain, at the Company’s expense, expert legal  
or other professional advice where necessary  
in the course of its activities
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the  
Audit Committee.
Further details about the Audit Committee can  
be found on pages 58 to 62.
Remuneration Committee
The current members of the Remuneration Committee 
are David Longbottom (Committee Chairman),  
Charlie Scott, Alan Smith (all of whom served 
throughout the year), Simon Laffin (who joined the 
Committee during the year) and Timo Anderson  
(who joined on 1 May 2014). Peter Smith also served 
until his resignation from the Board.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during  
the year. The attendance of the individual members  
at meetings is detailed in the table on page 52.  
The Remuneration Committee’s purpose is to advise 
the Board and make recommendations to it about  
all elements of the remuneration packages of the 
Executive Directors and other members of senior 
management as it is designated to consider, including 
any major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the Group. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary of the 
Remuneration Committee. The Group’s compliance 
with the provisions of the Code relating to directors’ 
remuneration is further explained on pages 66 to 83.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least  
twice each year and may request relevant executive 
directors and senior management to attend meetings 
by invitation. During the year under review, the 
Committee received material assistance and advice 
from the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and  
the Director of Human Resources. No director  
is involved in decisions relating to their personal 
remuneration package.
The Remuneration Committee and the Group also 
received advice from Kepler Associates, a firm of 
independent remuneration consultants who have  
not provided any other services to the Group.  
The Committee has also been advised by Eversheds 
LLP, who are the Group’s solicitors and who  
have advised the Group on other legal matters  
throughout the year (including on various corporate,  
regulatory, employment and commercial matters). 
Eversheds LLP provided advice on the legal aspects  
of the implementation and operation of Flybe’s 
employee share schemes.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 55 Corporate governance 
Continued
Nomination Committee
The current members of the Nomination  
Committee are Simon Laffin (Committee Chairman),  
Saad Hammad, David Longbottom, Alan Smith and 
Charlie Scott. Jim French (previous Committee 
Chairman) and Mark Chown resigned during the year. 
The attendance of the individual members at the  
five meetings of the Nomination Committee held 
during the year is detailed in the table on page 52.  
The Nomination Committee’s purpose is to establish  
a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure  
for the appointment of new directors to the Board.  
The Company Secretary acts as secretary of the 
Nomination Committee.
The Code recommends that the majority of members 
of the Nomination Committee should be independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Throughout the period  
the Nomination Committee has comprised David 
Longbottom, Charlie Scott and Alan Smith all of whom 
are Independent Non-Executive Directors, together 
with Jim French and Mark Chown. Additionally, Simon 
Laffin, the Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the 
Board, was appointed to the Company’s Nomination 
Committee on 4 November 2013, served to the end  
of the year and continues to serve. Saad Hammad also 
joined the Committee during the year following his 
appointment as Chief Executive Officer. The Board  
is satisfied that the members of the Nomination 
Committee are those who are best able to contribute 
to its objectives. 
The responsibilities of the Nomination  
Committee include:
> > regularly reviewing the structure, size and 
composition (including skills, knowledge,  
experience and diversity) of the Board and making 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
changes
> > keeping under review the leadership needs of the 
organisation, both executive and non-executive, with 
a view to ensuring the continued ability to compete 
effectively in the marketplace
> > evaluating, before any appointment is made by the 
Board, the balance of skills, knowledge, experience 
and diversity on the Board and in light of this 
preparing a description of the role and capabilities 
required for a particular appointment
> > giving full consideration to succession planning  
for directors and other senior executives taking into 
account the challenges and opportunities facing  
the Company and the skills and expertise needed  
on the Board in future
> > reviewing the time requirements  
of non-executive directors.
The Board fully supports diversity, recognising the 
benefits that diverse viewpoints can contribute in 
decision making. All Directors are committed to 
encouraging all of the Group’s employees, and it’s 
Board, to reach their full potential, irrespective of their 
gender, race, or sexuality. It is the intention of the 
Board to always keep the benefits that derive from  
a diverse Board in mind when making appointments. 
However, the Board does not believe that setting  
a quota is the most appropriate method for achieving  
a balanced Board and all appointments are made on 
merit. The Board remains committed to developing 
talent throughout the Group, and to providing training, 
support and development to those identified as 
displaying potential.
During the year, the Committee discussed succession 
planning and reviewed the composition of the Board 
and of itself. The Committee oversaw a number of 
recruitment processes for the Board. The search  
for a new Chief Executive Officer was concluded  
by an independent external search company, Harvey 
Nash Group plc, which resulted in Saad Hammad being 
identified as the outstanding candidate for the role. 
The search for a new Chairman was conducted in 
consultation with Flybe’s brokers, who assisted in the 
identification of a short list of suitable candidates,  
from which the Nomination Committee selected  
Simon Laffin. JCA Group, a leading independent 
executive search firm, was engaged to conduct a 
search for a new Non-Executive Director to replace 
Alan Smith, who is retiring from the Board, and  
Timo Anderson was chosen from their short list  
by the Nomination Committee.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all of the 
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection  
at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours, and at the AGM. Each letter of 
appointment sets out clearly what is expected  
in the role, the anticipated level of time commitment 
including, where relevant, additional responsibilities 
derived from involvement in Board Committees.  
Details of other material commitments are disclosed  
to the Board and a register is maintained by the 
Company Secretary.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 56 In addition to the updates provided to the Board after 
each Safety and Security Review Committee meeting, 
the Committee produces an annual report which is 
reviewed and formally approved by the Board.
Mergers and Acquisitions Committee 
The members of the Mergers and Acquisitions 
Committee, who served until its dissolution in 
November 2013 all of whom have served throughout 
the year, were Alan Smith (Committee Chairman) and 
Charlie Scott with Anita Lovell having being a member 
until her resignation from the Board. No meetings  
of the Committee were held during the year.
The purpose of the Mergers and Acquisitions 
Committee was to scrutinise, via a formal and rigorous 
process, major acquisitions or mergers and, where 
appropriate, make recommendations to the Board. 
The duties of the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee 
have now been transferred to the Audit Committee  
and Group Board.
Safety and Security Review Committee
The current members of the Safety and Security 
Review Committee are Alan Smith (Committee 
Chairman), Timo Anderson, Simon Charles, John 
Palmer and Wayne Jenner (an external, independent 
safety expert in this area, who was appointed in 
January 2014). Peter Smith (formerly Committee 
Chairman) and Andrew Strong sat on the Committee 
until their resignations. Timo Anderson joined this 
Committee on 1 May 2014 and will chair it on Alan 
Smith’s retirement from the Board on 31 August 2014. 
The meeting is attended by the Accountable Managers 
of the franchise partners and Flybe Finland. Individual 
post holders are requested to attend as required.  
The Safety and Security Review Committee met  
on four occasions during the year. The attendance 
of the individual Board members at meetings of the 
Safety and Security Review Committee is detailed  
in the table on page 52. The Safety and Security 
Review Committee’s purpose is to establish, review  
and monitor formal policies and procedures and have 
oversight of performance in connection with the safe 
and secure operation of the Group’s business.
The duties of the Safety and Security Review 
Committee include:
> > reviewing matters concerned with the safe and 
secure operation (both in the air and on the ground) 
of any aircraft operated by the Group, or any aircraft 
carrying the Flybe Group brand or flight number 
designation including its franchise operators, Logan 
Air and (from June 2014) Stobart Air
> > reviewing the performance, and output, of the Safety 
Management System of Flybe Group companies and 
its franchise partners
> > considering reports on High Risk incidents involving 
any aircraft operated by the Group and ensuring  
that appropriate remedial action is taken including,  
where appropriate, that recommendations are  
made to third parties
> > considering reports of significant incidents 
concerning safety at airports and in engineering 
facilities and ensure remedial action or appropriate 
recommendations are implemented
> > reviewing compliance with health and safety 
legislation and aviation-specific safety requirements
> > ensuring full attention is given to issues of security 
and advice received from relevant national agencies 
and authorities
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 57 Audit Committee report 
Dear shareholder
The past year has been a busy one for the Audit 
Committee at Flybe with our focus being on the 
Group’s control environment and management’s 
reporting of Flybe’s financial performance. The 
Committee has been strengthened with the addition  
of Flybe’s Chairman to our ranks – Simon Laffin has  
a wealth of experience in financial matters and brings 
in a fresh view thanks to his exposure to a variety of 
different sectors in his career.
We have maintained our oversight assisted by the work 
of the internal and external audit teams. Internal Audit 
has operated to a curtailed programme as agreed with 
the Committee as focus on the Turnaround Plan has 
dominated the need for resource. 2014/15 will see a 
return to a more normal focus with a higher level of 
audits planned.
The healthy and constructive relationship with the 
external auditors continues. The completion of the 
2012/13 audit in June last year allowed us to see the 
new audit partner in action having rotated on to us as 
a client for the first time. The level of professional 
scepticism that is brought to bear by the external audit 
team provides the Committee with a great deal of 
comfort around the approaches followed by 
management in forming their judgements.
Role
The primary function of the Audit Committee, which 
met on six occasions during the year, is to assist the 
Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. This 
includes reviewing the financial reports and other 
financial information before publication. In addition,  
the Committee also reviews the systems of internal 
controls on a continuing basis, with respect to finance, 
accounting, risk management, compliance, fraud  
and audit that management and the Board  
have established.
The Committee also reviews the accounting and 
financial reporting processes; along with reviewing  
the roles and effectiveness of both the internal and 
external auditors. The ultimate responsibility for 
reviewing and approving the annual and other 
accounts remains with the Board. 
Responsibilities
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, further 
details of which can be found in its terms of reference 
at www.flybe.com/en/corporate/governance include:
> > monitoring the integrity of the Group’s Financial 
Statements and formal announcements relating  
to Flybe’s performance and to review any significant 
financial reporting issues and/or judgements 
contained therein
> > keeping under review the consistency of, and any 
changes to, accounting policies, both on a year to 
year basis and across the Group and challenging, 
where necessary, the Company’s Financial Statements
> > reviewing, and challenging where necessary,  
the strategic and business reviews and corporate 
governance statement insofar as is relates to audit 
matters or risk management
> > considering management’s response to any major 
external or internal audit recommendations
> > considering applications for the post of Director  
of Internal Audit and Special Projects, approving 
appointments to the post and any dismissal of that 
post holder
> > reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management systems 
> > monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit 
process including the appointment, cost and 
independence of the external auditor –  
see Auditor Independence on page 62
> > developing and implementing policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor to supply  
non-audit services
> > ensuring that clear and effective channels are 
maintained for communication between the external 
auditor and both the Audit Committee and the 
Group’s financial and senior management.
Charlie Scott 
Chairman 
Audit Committee
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 58 The Audit Committee met on six occasions during 
2013/14. Details of the attendance at its meetings  
are set out in the table on page 52.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Group Financial Controller, Group Financial 
Accountant, Director of Internal Audit and Special 
Projects, and representatives from the external auditor 
are invited to attend all meetings of the Audit 
Committee. The Director of Internal Audit and Special 
Projects and the external auditor may also request  
a meeting with the Audit Committee without any 
member of management present if they consider  
it necessary. In line with its terms of reference, the 
Audit Committee members met with the external 
auditor once during the year without  
management present.
Main activities of the Committee  
during the year
During the year the Audit Committee’s business  
has included the following items:
> > reviewing trading updates and interim  
management statements
> > approving policy for use of professional services  
firms (including auditors on non-audit assignments)
> > full year results, including review of the Annual Report 
to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable
> > principal judgemental accounting matters affecting 
the Group based on reports from both the Group’s 
management and the external auditors
> > external audit plans and reports
> > reviewing reports from the Director of Internal  
Audit and Special Projects 
> > approval of the annual Internal Audit and Risk Plan
> > reviewing internal controls and fraud prevention 
policies and procedures
> > reviewing Bribery Act 2010 compliance policy 
and procedures 
> > reviewing the Audit Committee’s own terms 
of reference 
> > reviewing the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, 
its membership and its terms of reference
Review of the Annual Report
The Committee examined, at the request of the Board, 
the Annual Report to determine whether it was fair, 
balanced and understandable. The Committee did this 
by gaining an understanding of the drafting and 
preparation process and the level of review and 
challenge introduced to ensure balance and accuracy. 
Training in this role was provided to the Board and 
senior management responsible for drafting the Annual 
The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line 
with an annual work plan designed to ensure that it 
meets its responsibilities under its terms of reference set 
by the Board. The Audit Committee agrees the scope of 
the external audit work and discusses the results of the 
full year audit and half year review with the external 
auditor, the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive 
Officer. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the annual and other accounts remains with 
the Board, however the Audit Committee reviews these 
documents and discusses them with the Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Officers, particularly areas where 
there is subjectivity or the application of judgement, 
before making recommendations to the Board.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for 
recommending the appointment, re-appointment  
and removal of the external auditor to the Board who, 
in turn, will propose a resolution for consideration by 
the shareholders. During the year the Audit Committee 
considered the continuation of the appointment  
of Deloitte LLP and, having regard to all of the facts 
available to the committee, recommended the  
re-appointment of Deloitte to the Board.
A review of the Group’s whistle-blowing procedures 
was undertaken to ensure arrangements are in place  
to enable employees to raise concerns about possible 
malpractice or wrongdoing by the Group or any  
of its employees on a confidential basis. This includes 
arrangements to investigate proportionately such 
matters for appropriate follow up action. Further 
promotion and advertising of the policy is planned  
to ensure it is as far reaching across the organisation  
as is possible.
Membership* and attendees
Internal  
auditors
Executive 
management
External  
auditors
Other  
advisors
  Charlie Scott 
(chair)
  T i m o An d e rs o n
 Simon Laffin
 Alan Smith
*  All Audit Committee members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Simon Laffin was appointed during the year and  
Timo Anderson on 1 May 2014.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 59 Audit Committee report 
Continued
Report by the Group’s auditors, Deloitte LLP. After its 
review of the process, consideration of management 
and auditor papers on the Financial Statements and the 
Annual Report and its own review of the Annual Report, 
the Audit Committee concluded that the Annual Report 
was fair, balanced and understandable and 
recommended that the Board approve it on those terms.
Internal control and risk management
The Group has a clear internal control system, the 
purpose of which is to safeguard investment and the 
Group’s assets, which accords with the Financial 
Reporting Council’s publication Internal Control: the 
Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code 
(‘the Revised Guidance’) which can be accessed at 
www.frc.org.uk. The Board has overall responsibility  
for maintaining, and reviewing the effectiveness of, the 
Group’s systems of internal control, including its joint 
ventures, which covers financial, operational and 
compliance controls together with risk management 
systems. The responsibility for establishing and 
operating detailed control procedures lies with the 
Chief Executive Officer supported by the Operating 
Board. However, the internal control systems are 
designed to manage, not eliminate, the risk of failure  
to achieve business objectives and to provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets  
are safeguarded against unauthorised use or material 
loss, and that its transactions are properly authorised 
and recorded.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board has 
conducted a review of the effectiveness of, and 
framework for, the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management systems during the year and  
no material weaknesses were identified. The Audit 
Committee considers formal reports prepared by  
the Group’s Internal Audit and Risk department and 
ensures the annual Internal Audit and Risk Plan  
reflects any material risks in internal control.
The Director of Internal Audit and Special Projects 
reports to the Chief Executive Officer and attends 
meetings of the Audit Committee which has approved 
an annual Internal Audit and Risk Plan, designed to 
provide effective risk based coverage over the internal 
control environment, for the coming year. The key 
objectives of the Internal Audit and Risk department 
are to provide independent and objective business 
assurance to the Board based on its approved risk 
based audit plan. 
In addition, the Audit Committee considers the report 
prepared by Deloitte LLP highlighting any matters 
identified in the course of its statutory audit work, 
which is reviewed by the Audit Committee in the 
presence of Deloitte LLP, Chief Executive Officer,  
the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Internal 
Audit and Special Projects.
Review of business risk and its reporting  
in the Financial Statements
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
business are discussed on pages 34 to 37. The Board 
has responsibility for determining the nature and 
extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving  
its strategic objectives and for oversight of the risk 
management process. Flybe has used the experience 
gained over many years to develop structures and 
processes to identify, evaluate, manage and report  
on the significant risks faced by the Group. These 
structures and processes, which are embedded within 
Flybe’s operations, have been in place throughout the 
year and up to the date of approval of this Annual 
Report. The Board is satisfied that these structures  
and processes ensure that risks are adequately and 
appropriately addressed and corrective actions taken.
Monitoring reviews take place regularly within the 
Group’s operating divisions and monthly reports are 
prepared for the Operating Board outlining events and 
mitigating actions taken.
In addition to the work of this Committee, the Safety 
and Security Review Committee (which also reports  
to the Board), chaired by an independent Non-
Executive Director, meets quarterly, or more regularly 
where events require, to review the Group’s safety 
performance.
The Director of Internal Audit and Special Projects has 
facilitated risk review workshops to identify risks, their 
mitigations and impact:
Assessments of:
Executive management
Audit Committee
  S t r a teg ic r i s k
  Functional risk
  Project risk
  Supplier risk
Group 
Board
Bottom up assessment
Topdown feedback and review
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 60 > > The assessment of the amount of deferred tax assets 
to recognise has been reviewed by the Committee  
to determine whether an appropriate amount has 
been recognised. Here, the Committee paid particular 
attention to the period over which the deferred  
tax asset would be recovered and whether  
it was appropriate for this or a different amount  
to be recognised.
> > The restructuring of the business has led to 
significant costs being incurred over an eighteen 
month period. The Committee has reviewed the 
amount and disclosure of such items and considered 
whether the disclosure was adequate and consistent 
with the prior year in both the Financial Statements 
and the narrative disclosure in the Strategic Report.
> > The defined benefit pension scheme inherited  
with the acquisition of BA Connect in March 2007  
is relatively sensitive to small movements in the 
assumptions used to calculate the year-end balance 
and the Committee reviewed these to determine 
whether the amount reported and the disclosure  
of it was appropriate.
In addition, the appropriateness of the going concern 
assumption was a matter of discussion at the half  
year (as it had been for the year to 31 March 2013)  
and the disclosures in the published accounts and 
announcements were carefully scrutinised to ensure 
that the most appropriate information was put before 
shareholders and investors. The 12 March 2014 Firm 
Placing and Placing and Open Offer and the associated 
net cash inflow of £150.1m meant that this risk was 
significantly reduced by the time of this report.
External audit process
During the year, the Committee reviewed the 
effectiveness of the overall audit process including 
review of:
> > The Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, 
balanced and understandable
> > Papers on critical judgements, internal control and 
fraud prepared by management
> > External auditor papers detailing their audit plans as 
well as on the results of their full year audit and half-
year review
> > The independence and effectiveness of the external 
audit itself
It is standard practice for the external auditors  
to meet privately with the Audit Committee without 
any member of management or the Executive 
Directors being present at least once each year.
As a result of its reviews, the Audit Committee was 
able to recommend the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP 
to the Board.
The purpose of these workshops has been to review 
enterprise-wide the likely risks to business objectives 
so that the Board can update its understanding  
of how well risks are understood and managed.  
The findings are recorded in a Risk Register along  
with their potential impact, the mitigations and  
controls currently in place, and recommendations, 
where possible, for risk reduction. 
The Audit Committee and the Board review the  
Risk Register annually and will do so more frequently  
if necessary.
Risks identified
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting 
policies have been adopted and whether management 
have made appropriate estimates and judgements.  
The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared 
by management which provide details on the main 
financial reporting judgements at both the half and  
full years. The Committee also reviews reports by the 
external auditors on the half year and full year results 
which highlight any issues that have arisen as a result 
of their work.
The significant issues considered in the year are 
detailed below, while the wider set of risks that impact 
on the business are shown on pages 34 to 37:
> > The Committee reviewed the maintenance provision 
at the year end. A number of judgements are used  
in the calculation of the provision, primarily utilisation 
of aircraft, the cost of the relevant maintenance 
activities as well as the timing of maintenance checks. 
The Committee addressed these matters using 
reports received from management which underlie 
the basis of assumptions used. The Committee also 
discussed with the external auditors their review of 
the assumptions underlying the estimates used. 
> > The carrying value of joint ventures, intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment was reviewed  
by the Committee and particular regard paid to the 
judgements around the realisable value of aircraft  
at the point of their disposal or hand-back to the 
lessor. A number of judgements are made in these 
calculations, including the discount rate applied  
to future anticipated cash flows, the market value  
of aircraft at the end of their expected life with Flybe 
and in respect of the future anticipated financial 
performance of Flybe UK and Flybe Finland.
> > The Committee reviewed the adequacy of provisions 
against revenue that had been recognised and  
in particular whether the transition to new systems  
in 2011/12 meant that previously established 
provisions were no longer required. The key 
judgement was around the level of likely refunds  
of tickets that may be required in relation to those 
that have been issued. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 61 Audit Committee report 
Continued
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that 
an appropriate relationship is maintained between the 
Group and the external auditor. The external auditor 
provides some non-audit services, primarily in the 
provision of taxation advice and advice on corporate 
transactions that may arise from time to time. In order 
to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence 
are safeguarded the following controls have been 
implemented:
(A) A formal policy on the use of the external auditor  
for non-audit work has been agreed by the Audit 
Committee and is available on the Company’s 
website at www.flybe.com/en/corporate/
governance. In summary, this ensures that, usually, 
such work is only awarded when, by virtue of the 
auditor’s knowledge, skills or experience, the 
external auditor is clearly to be preferred over 
alternative suppliers. Any fees charged by the 
Group’s external auditor in respect of non-audit 
services over a set cumulative value of, currently, 
more than £50,000 requires the prior approval of 
the Audit Committee. Under the policy, the external 
auditor is specifically excluded from providing any 
work that may impair their independence and from 
providing internal audit services to Flybe.
(B) The Audit Committee receives and reviews  
each year an analysis of all non-audit work awarded 
to the external auditor over the financial period.  
A breakdown of the fees paid to the Group’s 
external auditor during the year is set out in note 6 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
further detail is highlighted below. 
(C) The Audit Committee receives each year a report 
from the external auditor as to any matters that  
the external auditor considers have, or may have, 
bearing on its independence and which need to  
be disclosed to the Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding non-
audit work, Deloitte LLP have retained objectivity 
and independence during the year. The Audit 
Committee will continue to monitor its policy in this 
regard and accepts that non-audit work should be 
controlled to ensure that it does not compromise 
the independence of the external auditor.
The Company is considering its policy in the light  
of new EU legislation on audit independence and will 
revise its policy further once the detailed requirements 
that will apply in the UK are known.
No contractual obligations that the Group has in place 
limit the Audit Committee in its choice of auditors.
Auditor rotation
Group policy is that the external audit should be put 
out to tender at least once in every ten years and  
the audit firm shall be changed after no more than  
20 years’ service. This policy will be put into effect 
once the transitional provisions of the new regulations 
on provision of services by auditors are finalised by the 
UK Government. Deloitte LLP replaced another firm  
as auditor for the March 2007 audit and the audit 
partner rotated in the 2012/13 year.
Audit fees – non-audit services
The level of fees paid to the auditors for non-audit 
services is as follows:
2011/12
£000
2012/13
£000
2013/14
£000 Average
Audit fees (A) 218 201 225 215
Services provided  
to satisfy legislative 
or regulatory 
requirements – – 290 97
Other non-audit 
services (B) 469 123 276 289
Percentage (B/A) 215.1% 61.2% 122.7% 134.7%
Services provided to satisfy legislative or regulatory 
requirements primarily include work on Class 1 
Circulars or Prospectuses, with the fee in 2013/14 
relating to the issuing of new shares that was 
completed on 12 March 2014.
Other non-audit services relate to all other services 
provided by the auditors. In 2011/12, the fees primarily 
related to the work performed around the acquisition 
of what is now Flybe Finland. Other fees include tax 
advisory and compliance services. After deducting 
work on all corporate transactions, the percentage  
of non-audit services to audit services over a three  
year average was 80.6%.
Charlie Scott
Chairman
Audit Committee
10 June 2014
 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 62 Directors’ report 
Restrictions on share transfers
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares  
other than:
> > where the Company has a lien on a partly-paid share 
unless to do so would prevent dealings in partly-paid 
shares from taking place on an open and proper basis
> > where the transfer is in favour of more than four  
joint transferees
> > where a transfer request is not accompanied by the 
relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence 
as the Directors may reasonably require to show  
the right of the transferor to make the transfer
> > certain restrictions which may from time to time be 
imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating 
to insider dealing
> > pursuant to the Company’s code for securities 
transactions whereby the Directors and designated 
employees require approval to deal in the  
Company’s shares
> > in certain circumstances where the shareholder  
in question has been issued with a notice under  
s793 of the Companies Act 2006
> > where a proposed transferee of the Company’s 
shares has failed to furnish the Directors with a 
declaration of nationality (together with such 
evidence as the Directors may require) as required  
by the Company’s Articles of Association
> > the powers given to the Directors by the Company’s 
Articles of Association to limit the ownership of the 
Company’s shares by non-UK nationals or non-EEA 
nationals and powers to enforce this limitation 
including the right to force the sale of any  
affected shares
As at 6 June 2014, the Company is not aware  
of any arrangements between shareholders that  
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities  
or voting rights.
Shares with special rights
There are no shares in the Company with special  
rights with regard to control of the Company. 
Restrictions on Voting Rights
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising 
voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote 
in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.  
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, 
against or withheld in relation to each resolution  
are announced at the AGM and published on the 
Company’s website after the meeting.
The Directors present their Annual Report on the 
affairs of the Group, together with the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report for the year ended  
31 March 2014. The Corporate Governance statement 
on pages 49 to 57 forms part of this report.  
An indication of likely future developments of the 
business is included in the Strategic Report.
Content included in the Strategic Report
The Companies Act 2006 (as amended) requires 
certain information to be included in either the 
Directors’ Report, or where it is not, for that 
information to be included in the Strategic Report  
and cross-referenced. The items included in the 
Strategic Report are:
Item Page number
Greenhouse gas emissions 43 and 44
Employee involvement 39 to 41
Employment of disabled people 40
Diversity policy and reporting 41
Directors and Company Secretary
The Directors and Company Secretaries who served 
during the year are shown on pages 46 to 48.
Dividends
No dividends are declared or proposed for either  
this year or the prior one.
Share capital
Details of the movement in authorised and issued  
share capital during the year are provided in note 28  
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 141,501,920 
ordinary shares of 1 pence each were issued at 110p on 
12 March 2014 for a cash consideration of £150.1m, net 
of expenses. As at 31 March 2014, the Company’s share 
capital comprised a single class of ordinary share  
of 1 pence each and the issued share capital of the 
Company was £2,166,548 comprising 216.7 million 
ordinary shares of 1 pence each. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s 
ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s Articles  
of Association.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 63 Relations with shareholders
A Relationship Agreement was in place between the 
Group and its then principal shareholder, Rosedale 
Aviation Holdings Limited (‘Rosedale’), which 
permitted Rosedale to appoint one person to the 
Board if Rosedale held in excess of 15% of Flybe’s 
Ordinary Shares and two people if it held in excess  
of 30% of the Ordinary Shares. Rosedale sold all its 
shares on 12 November 2013 and the Relationship 
Agreement then terminated. Rosedale has no 
representatives on the Board.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (the ‘AGM’) provides the 
Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and 
answer questions from, private and institutional 
shareholders and the majority of the Board will be 
available at the meeting to answer shareholders’ 
questions. The Chairmen of each of the Board 
Committees will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer questions. At the AGM the Chairman 
reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy 
votes lodged for and against each resolution and the 
number of abstentions. Subsequently, the results are 
published on the Group’s website at www.flybe.com/
en/corporate/investors.
The Company’s standard procedure is to ensure that 
the Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to 
shareholders at least 20 working days before  
the meeting. 
Employee share scheme 
The Trustee of the Flybe Share Incentive Plan  
(the ‘Plan’) will, on receipt of any offer, compromise 
arrangement or scheme which affects ordinary shares 
held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the Trustee 
on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the 
ordinary shares held by the Trustee on their behalf 
and/or direct how the Trustee shall act in relation to 
those ordinary shares. The Trustee shall take no action 
in respect of those ordinary shares for which it has 
received no directions or ordinary shares which are 
unallocated. Generally, on a poll, the Trustee shall vote 
in accordance with directions given by participants.  
In the absence of directions or on a show of hands  
the Trustee shall not vote. 
The Trustee of the Flybe Employee Share Trust (the 
‘Trust’), which is used in connection with the Flybe 
Long-Term Incentive Plan, has the power to vote  
or not vote at its discretion in respect of any shares  
in the Company held in the Trust.
Political donations
Flybe did not make any political donations during the 
year (2012/13: nil).
Substantial interests
On 6 June 2014, the Company had been notified,  
in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights  
as a shareholder of the Company:
Name of holder
Percentage
of voting
rights and
issued share
capital
Number
of ordinary
shares
Nature
of holding
Aberforth 
Partners LLP 14.1% 30,642,633 Beneficial
SFM UK Management 
LLP/Quantum 
Partners LP 8.2% 17,749,263 Beneficial
Artemis Investment 
Management LLP 7.9% 17,165,198 Beneficial
Standard Life 
Investment Ltd 7.5% 17,165,198 Beneficial
Pelham Long/Short 
Master Fund Limited 5.7% 12,356,416 Beneficial
International 
Consolidated 
Airlines Group, S.A. 5.0% 10,925,847 Beneficial
The Wellcome Trust 
Limited 4.9% 10,696,200 Beneficial
Henderson Global 
Investors 4.2% 9,055,789 Beneficial
Hargreaves 
Lansdown/
Threadneedle 
Investments 3.6% 7,767,102 Beneficial
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 23 July 2014
First quarter IMS August 2014
Half-year results 2014/15 November 2014
Third quarter IMS February 2015
Full year results 2014/15 June 2015
The dates above are indicative and confirmation  
will be listed on our website at www.flybe.com and 
through RNS announcements.
Directors’ report 
Continued
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 64 Registered office
Jack Walker House
Exeter International Airport
Exeter
Devon EX5 2HL
Company registrar
Capita Registrars Limited
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone: 0871 664 0300  
(Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras) 
Outside of the UK: +44 20 8639 3399
Company number
1373432
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Abbots House
Abbey Street
Reading RG1 3BD
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of 
the Company at the date when this report is approved:
> > so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware
> > each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a director to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted  
in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to 
continue in office as the Company’s auditor and  
a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed  
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Andrew Knuckey
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
10 June 2014
 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 65 Directors’ remuneration 
Annual statement 
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to introduce this year’s Remuneration 
Report. As required by the new reporting regulations 
which came into effect on 1 October 2013, this Report 
is split into three sections:  
(1) this Annual Statement,  
(2) the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report, and  
(3) the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
In line with the Regulations, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy Report will be submitted  
to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and,  
if approved, will be effective from that date for  
up to three years. The Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be submitted to a separate advisory vote.
Performance of the Group in the year  
ended 31 March 2014
As the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have 
reported in their reviews on pages 8 and 14 Flybe  
has undergone great change in the last 12 months,  
not only in its management, but also in developing its 
strategy and in cementing its balance sheet strength. 
This has seen a significant improvement in financial 
performance and has secured strong foundations for 
the successful turnaround of the business as reflected 
by the improvement in Flybe’s share price. As set out 
below, these factors have influenced director 
remuneration in a number of ways. 
Remuneration decisions for the year ended  
31 March 2014
In the year ended 31 March 2014, the following changes 
were made to the Board:
> > Saad Hammad succeeded Jim French as Chief 
Executive Officer in August 2013
> > Jim French stepped down as Non-Executive 
Chairman and a Director of Flybe in November 2013, 
and was succeeded by Simon Laffin
> > As part of our business Turnaround Plan, Mark 
Chown, Mike Rutter and Andrew Strong all stepped 
down from the Board in August 2013 and the roles  
of Director of Corporate Strategy, MD Flybe Europe 
and MD Flybe UK were subsequently made 
redundant. Messrs Chown and Strong have since 
been serving their 12 month notice periods;  
Mr Rutter left Flybe on 31 March 2014 
> > Andrew Knuckey announced his resignation  
as CFO and will leave Flybe on 2 August 2014
These Board changes, and the Group’s Turnaround 
Plan, have had a significant impact on Executive 
Director remuneration during the year under review. 
On joining Flybe, Mr Hammad was awarded an interest 
under a one-off long-term incentive (approved by 
99.8% of shareholders at the 2013 AGM), incentivising 
the turnaround of Flybe. On behalf of the Board, I wish 
to commend Mr Hammad for donating his annual 
bonus to charity.
In addition, the Committee had to consider and agree 
the arrangements for Executive Directors stepping 
down during the year under review, and these are 
disclosed in more detail in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on pages 79 and 80.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 66 The Committee welcomes and carefully considers 
feedback from shareholders. We believe the 
remuneration framework presented in this Report  
will facilitate recruitment in the coming year and  
is in the best interests of all shareholders, as it will  
help incentivise successful delivery of the turnaround 
which will underpin the Group’s sustained performance 
over the longer-term. I and my colleagues on the 
Remuneration Committee hope that you support  
this approach, and that you find the new layout  
of the Remuneration Report to be clearer and more 
transparent. We hope we can count on your support 
for the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and its 
implementation during the year.
David Longbottom
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
10 June 2014
Remuneration policy for the year commencing  
1 April 2014
The restructuring of our senior executive team will  
be complete once Philip de Klerk, our newly-appointed 
CFO, joins the Group later this year. For the year 
ending 31 March 2015, the Committee believes  
it will be important to align the interests of Mr de Klerk 
immediately with those of the senior executive team. 
The Committee wishes, therefore, to avail itself of the 
flexibility to make a one-off phantom option grant to 
the CFO on joining with a similar structure to the senior 
executive team long-term incentives awarded during 
the past year. It is therefore proposed under the 
recruitment remuneration policy on page 73 that an 
incoming Executive Director (appointed from outside 
the Group) will be eligible to receive a grant of up to 
300% of salary on appointment under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), subject to shareholder approval 
of the LTIP plan rules by separate resolution at the 2014 
AGM. The option will vest subject to the achievement 
of a minimum level of share price growth over three 
years. To the extent the performance condition is met, 
an amount equal to the embedded gain at the end of 
the three-year performance period (capped at 300%  
of the grant-date share price) will vest on a phased 
basis between three and four years from grant.  
Further details of the LTIP are set out in the Notice  
of AGM and on pages 73 and 74.
The Committee has also approved a recommendation 
by the Executive Directors that their salaries remain 
unchanged for the financial year commencing  
1 April 2014. 
Remuneration policy for future years
The Committee recognises that exceptional 
remuneration arrangements have been necessary  
in 2013/14 (and will be necessary in 2014/15) to ensure 
strong alignment to the immediate task of transforming 
Flybe’s business over the short- and medium-term. 
Once this transformation is complete, the Committee 
believes a remuneration policy reflecting the 
framework approved by shareholders on IPO  
will likely be appropriate. For this reason, the 
remuneration policy described in this Report includes 
the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’), even though  
no awards are proposed under the PSP in 2014/15.  
We will consult shareholders, and seek approval  
for any necessary revisions to this policy, at an 
appropriate time.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 67 Directors’ remuneration
Continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Compliance statement
This report, which has been approved by the Board, has been prepared in compliance with the Listing Rules,  
the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts  
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections  
of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: the single total figure of remuneration for Directors and  
notes (page 77), scheme interests awarded during the financial year (pages 78 and 79) payments to past  
directors (page 80), payments for loss of office (page 80) and the statement of directors’ shareholdings  
and share interests (page 83). The remaining sections of the report are not subject to audit.
This section of the report sets out a Policy for Executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 
2014 Annual General Meeting. In line with the new reporting regulations, the Committee intends that the Policy 
will come into effect immediately following the Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2014, for a period of up to 
three years.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee and the Board believe that in order to attract, motivate and retain the individuals 
required to deliver our strategy and create value for our shareholders, it is necessary to provide competitive, 
market-based, remuneration packages that are directly aligned with group strategy, shareholder interests  
and that have a substantial proportion of performance-related elements to create sustained growth in 
shareholder value. 
Policy Table
The following table summarises the Group’s policies in respect of key elements of Executive Director 
remuneration, as already approved by shareholders at IPO:
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Basic salary 
To attract and  
retain talent.
Basic salaries are reviewed 
annually, taking into account  
the size and nature of the role, 
individual skills, experience and 
performance, with reference  
to pay and conditions elsewhere 
in the Group, and external market 
data for comparable positions  
at companies of similar sector  
and size to Flybe.
Any increase in basic salary  
is normally effective 1 April.
Salaries in respect of the year 
under review (and for the 
following year) are disclosed  
in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
It is anticipated that salary 
increases will generally be in line 
with those awarded to salaried 
employees as a whole. In certain 
circumstances (including, but  
not limited to, increases for other 
employees, changes in role and 
responsibilities, market levels,  
and individual and company 
performance), the Committee 
may make appropriate 
adjustments to salary levels  
to ensure they remain market 
competitive. The rationale for  
any such increase will be 
disclosed in the relevant Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Personal performance  
in the role and against 
personal objectives.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 68 Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Pension 
To provide 
competitive 
retirement 
benefits.
Executive Directors are eligible  
to participate in a contributory 
scheme and may elect on a cost-
neutral basis for the Group to 
receive a monthly non-bonusable 
cash supplement in lieu of 
pension above the Pensions 
Annual and Lifetime allowances.
Salary is the only element of 
remuneration that is pensionable.
Executive Directors receive a 
contribution, or equivalent cash 
supplement in lieu thereof,  
of up to 15% of salary.
None.
Benefits 
To provide 
competitive 
benefits.
Executive Directors receive 
benefits which consist primarily  
of car allowances, fuel card, 
private medical insurance and  
life assurance, although can 
include any such benefits that the 
Committee deems appropriate  
to ensure the benefits package  
is appropriately competitive and 
reflects the circumstances of the 
individual Director including, but 
not limited to, accommodation/
relocation allowances.
Benefits vary by role and 
individual circumstances; 
eligibility and cost is reviewed 
periodically.
Benefits in respect of the year 
under review are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
It is not anticipated that the  
cost of benefits will vary 
significantly year on year, 
although the Committee retains 
the discretion to approve  
a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation)  
or in circumstances where factors 
outside the Company’s control 
have changed materially (e.g. 
increases in insurance premiums).
None.
SIP, SAYE 
To align the 
interests of 
employees and 
shareholders by 
encouraging all 
employees to 
own Flybe 
shares.
SAYE – All-employee scheme 
under which all UK employees 
(including Executive Directors) 
may save up to the maximum 
monthly savings limit (as 
determined by legislation) over  
a period of three or five years. 
Options under the SAYE scheme 
are granted at a discount  
of up to 20% to the market value 
of shares at the date of grant.
SIP – All-employee scheme  
under which all UK employees 
(including Executive Directors) 
may (i) contribute up to the 
monthly maximum (as determined 
by legislation) to purchase shares 
monthly from pre-tax pay;  
and (ii) receive free shares up  
to the annual maximum value  
(as determined by legislation).
Savings, contributions and  
free shares are capped at the 
prevailing legislative limit or  
other such lower limit as the 
Committee may determine  
at the time UK employees  
are invited to participate.
None.
Policy Table continued
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 69 Directors’ remuneration
Continued
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Annual bonus 
Incentivise  
and reward 
Executive 
Directors for 
the delivery  
of business 
strategy.
The annual bonus is a 
discretionary scheme, under 
which performance targets are 
agreed by the Committee at the 
start of each financial year. 
Payments (made following the 
end of each performance year) 
are based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the Group’s 
performance against  
these targets.
Maximum annual bonus 
opportunity:
CEO: 
> > 150% of base salary
Other Executive Directors:
> > 100% of salary
Performance is 
assessed on an  
annual basis, based  
on the achievement  
of quantifiable 
personalised objectives 
relating to the Group’s 
financial performance 
and progress of 
strategic priorities.  
The specific measures 
used in the bonus  
and their weighting  
may vary each year 
depending on business 
context and strategy.
Further details on the 
bonus for the year 
under review are 
provided in the  
Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
Because of the specific one-off incentive award made on recruitment to the Chief Executive Officer (and that 
which is expected be made to the new CFO), the Committee will review the policy for its long-term incentives  
at such time as our transformation phase is nearing completion to ensure long-term incentives remain aligned 
with our strategy. This will be the subject of consultation with shareholders. The structure for the PSP approved 
by shareholders at IPO is set out below:
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Performance 
Share Plan 
Incentivise 
creation of 
long-term 
shareholder 
value, and 
supports 
alignment with 
shareholders’ 
interests.
No awards have been made under 
the PSP since 2011/12 and there  
is currently no intention to make 
future awards to Executive 
Directors without prior 
shareholder consultation.
Awards comprise conditional 
shares vesting on the third 
anniversary of grant subject to 
the achievement of three-year 
performance conditions.
A payment equivalent to the 
dividends that would have 
accrued on the number  
of shares that vest may  
be made to participants on 
vesting, as cash or shares.
Maximum opportunity:
> > 150% of salary
In normal circumstances, 
however, the Committee would 
grant awards with a value below 
this level. To-date, awards have 
been up to 100% of salary.
Details of any awards granted  
in a year will be disclosed  
in the relevant Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
PSP awards have 
historically been based 
on a combination of 
Flybe’s EPS growth and 
Flybe’s TSR performance 
relative to a comparator 
group of companies.  
The current policy is for 
the weighting on each 
measure to not be less 
than 30%.
The Committee 
determines the 
performance conditions 
applying to PSP awards 
as appropriate to the 
circumstances at the 
time of grant.
Further details  
of measures, their 
weighting and targets  
will be disclosed in the 
relevant Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Policy Table continued
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 70 In recognition of the immediate task of transforming Flybe’s business over the short- and medium-term, the 
Committee wishes to avail itself of the flexibility to make one-off phantom option grants in connection to an 
Executive Director’s recruitment under a LTIP instead of the PSP. The structure of the LTIP, the plan rules of which 
are subject to shareholder approval by separate resolution at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, is set out below:
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
Incentivise 
creation of 
long-term 
shareholder 
value, and 
supports 
alignment with 
shareholders’ 
interests.
Subject to shareholder  
approval at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting.
Over the life of this policy, it is 
intended that the LTIP be used  
to make awards to Executive 
Directors in connection with their 
recruitment to the Group only.  
No awards will be made to an 
Executive Director in other 
circumstances without prior 
shareholder consultation.
Awards will comprise a phantom 
option grant vesting subject  
to the achievement of a three-year 
performance condition. To the 
extent the performance condition 
is met, an amount equal to the 
embedded gain at the end of the 
performance period (capped  
at 300% of the grant-date  
share price) will vest 50% on the 
3rd anniversary of grant, 25%  
after a further 6 months and 25% 
on the 4th anniversary of grant.
Unvested awards are also subject 
to forfeiture in the event of a 
material misstatement of results.
Awards will not be made under 
both the LTIP and the PSP  
in any one financial year.
Maximum opportunity:
> > 300% of salary
Details of any awards granted  
in a year will be disclosed  
in the relevant Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
The option will  
vest subject to the 
achievement of a 
minimum level of share 
price growth over the 
three years from grant.
Further details of the 
performance condition 
will be disclosed in the 
relevant Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Policy Table continued
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 71 Directors’ remuneration
Continued
Notes to the Policy Table
The Committee is satisfied that the above 
remuneration policy is in the best interests of 
shareholders and does not promote excessive  
risk-taking. In addition to the above elements of 
remuneration, any commitment made prior to, but due 
to be fulfilled after, the approval and implementation  
of this remuneration policy will be honoured. Details  
of such elements, including the one-off long-term 
incentive opportunity awarded to Saad Hammad  
on his appointment in August 2013 (approved by 
shareholders at the 2013 AGM), are disclosed fully  
in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Details of the 
award proposed to be made to Philip de Klerk on his 
joining Flybe later in 2014 will be disclosed fully in next 
year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. Due to the 
scale and criticality of the turnaround challenge, it was 
not deemed appropriate to apply the shareholding 
guideline (described below) to either the hiring  
of the new Chief Executive Officer or the new CFO. 
The Committee may exercise discretion in two broad 
areas for each element of remuneration:
> > To ensure fairness and align Executive Director 
remuneration with underlying individual and company 
performance, the Committee may adjust upwards  
or downwards the outcome of any short- or long-
term incentive plan payment within the limits of the 
relevant annual bonus, PSP and LTIP scheme rules. 
Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be 
made on a neutral basis, i.e. the intention of any 
adjustment will be that the event is not to the benefit 
or detriment of participants. Adjustments to 
underlying performance may be made in exceptional 
circumstances to ensure outcomes are fair both  
to shareholders and participants.
> > In the case of a non-regular event occurring, the 
Committee may apply its discretion to ensure  
fairness and seek alignment with business objectives. 
Non-regular events in this context include, but are  
not limited to: corporate transactions, changes  
in the Company’s accounting policies, minor  
or administrative matters, internal promotions, 
external recruitment and terminations.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during the 
financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of any 
net vested shares until they hold shares worth 100%  
of base salary.
Performance measure selection and approach  
to target setting
The annual bonus performance measures are selected 
each year to directly reinforce our medium-term 
business objective of returning to, and growing, 
profitability (see page 19 of the Annual Report for 
further details of our strategy). The one-off long-term 
incentive granted to the Chief Executive Officer  
on his recruitment (and the one-off LTIP to be granted 
to the Chief Financial Officer on his joining Flybe later 
in 2014) incentivises the recovery of, and further 
growth in, Flybe’s share price over a three-year period. 
The Committee selected this incentive design because 
it felt this would provide the simplest measure of the 
overall success of Flybe’s transformation programme 
and provide clear alignment with shareholder interests.
Targets applying to the annual bonus are reviewed 
annually, based on a number of internal and external 
reference points. Bonus targets are aligned with the 
annual budget agreed by the Board. Targets attached 
to any future PSP awards will reflect Flybe’s business 
priorities over the longer-term, industry context, 
expectations of what will constitute appropriately 
challenging performance levels and factors specific  
to the Group.
Remuneration policy for other employees
The remuneration policy for other employees is based 
on broadly consistent principles as described above. 
Annual salary reviews across the Group take into 
account company performance, local pay and market 
conditions and salary levels for similar roles  
in comparable companies.
Other members of the Group’s Operating Board and 
certain key management participate in similar annual 
bonus arrangements to the Executive Directors, 
although award sizes vary by organisational level.  
All other employees participate in the Employee Bonus 
Scheme, under which a bonus is payable subject to the 
achievement of group profit targets. Operating Board 
members and their direct reports also participate in a 
long-term incentive scheme rewarding Flybe’s share 
price performance over a three-year period, as 
appropriate. All eligible employees participate in the 
Company’s SAYE and SIP schemes on identical terms.
Pay for performance scenarios
The Regulations require an illustration of the potential 
future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors 
under the future remuneration policy and the potential 
split between the different elements of remuneration 
under three different performance scenarios: 
‘minimum’, ‘on-target’ and ‘maximum’. However, 
because no future PSP awards are proposed as a result 
of the one-off long-term incentive award made to the 
Chief Executive Officer on his recruitment (and the 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 72 one-off LTIP expected to be made to the Chief Financial 
Officer on his joining Flybe), the Committee believes it 
is more appropriate (and transparent to shareholders) 
to show the pay scenario charts on the basis of  
current remuneration (with the recruitment long-term 
incentives being annualised over their three-year 
vesting period). No chart is shown for Mr Knuckey,  
who announced in August 2013 that he was stepping 
down as Chief Financial Officer.
Potential reward opportunities are based on base 
salaries and annual bonus opportunities for 2014/15. 
Note that long-term incentive awards normally do  
not vest until at least the third anniversary of the date 
of grant.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
External appointment
In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive 
Director from outside the Group, the Committee may 
make use of all the components of remuneration 
detailed in the Policy Table on pages 68 to 71, albeit 
subject to the following variations:
> > Salary will be determined with reference to market 
data and will take into account the new appointee’s 
duties and responsibilities, as well as internal 
relativities. Where a new appointee’s salary is initially 
set below market, the Committee may manage salary 
progression with phased increases over a number 
of years, subject to the Executive Director’s 
development in the role.
> > Annual bonus opportunities will normally be pro-
rated in the year of joining to reflect the proportion  
of that year employed. Personal objectives will be 
tailored to the Executive Director.
> > In the current turnaround phase, it is proposed that 
any new Executive Directors appointed from outside 
the Group (including the Chief Financial Officer) be 
eligible for a one-off phantom option grant under  
the LTIP worth up to 300% of salary (subject to 
shareholder approval of the LTIP plan rules at the 
2014 AGM). These options will vest subject to the 
achievement of a three-year share price hurdle.  
If the share price hurdle is met, an amount equal  
to the embedded gain at the end of the three-year 
performance period (capped at 300% of the grant-
date share price) may vest. This will be paid 50% on 
the 3rd anniversary of grant, 25% after a further six 
months and 25% on the 4th anniversary of grant. 
Unvested awards are also subject to forfeiture in the 
event of a material misstatement of results.
> > The Committee may make an award in respect of a 
new appointment to ‘buy-out’ incentive arrangements 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer on a like-for-
like basis (and with equal fair value), which may be 
awarded in addition to the remuneration structure 
outlined in the table above. In doing so, the 
Committee will consider relevant factors including 
time to vesting, any performance conditions attached 
to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions 
being met. Any such ‘buy-out’ awards will typically be 
made under the existing annual bonus and long-term 
incentive schemes where possible, although in 
exceptional circumstances, the Committee may 
exercise the discretion available under the relevant 
Listing Rule to make awards using a different 
structure. Details of any ‘buy-out’ awards will be 
disclosed fully in the relevant Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
CFO Philip de Klerk 
Stretch
On-target
Minimum
893
551
323
Recruitment long-term incentive Annual bonus Fixed pay
0 250 500 750 1,000
32% 32% 36%
15% 26% 59%
100%
CEO Saad Hammad 
Stretch
On-target
Minimum
1,668
981
504
Recruitment long-term incentive Annual bonus Fixed pay
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
32% 38% 30%
16% 33% 51%
100%
The ‘minimum’ scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits (i.e. fixed remuneration) which are the only elements of the Executive 
Director’s remuneration packages not linked to performance.
The ‘on-target’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target bonus pay-out of 50% of maximum and threshold vesting under the 
CEO’s August 2013 long-term incentive and the LTIP award for the CFO (assuming the embedded gain in the award is 30% of the face value).
The ‘maximum’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration, maximum bonus, and vesting at ‘Stretch’ performance of the CEO’s August 2013 long-term 
incentive and the LTIP award for the CFO (assuming the embedded gain in the award is 100% of the face value).
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 73 Directors’ remuneration
Continued
In determining appropriate remuneration, the 
Committee will take into consideration all relevant 
factors (including quantum, nature of remuneration 
and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was 
recruited) to ensure that arrangements are in the best 
interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
Internal promotion
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way 
of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with 
that for external appointees detailed above. Where an 
individual has contractual commitments made prior  
to their promotion to Executive Director level, the 
Company will continue to honour these arrangements 
even if there are instances where they would not 
otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Executive 
Director remuneration policy at the time of promotion.
Service contracts and treatment for leavers 
and change of control
The Committee’s policy is to provide service contracts 
for Executive Directors with notice periods of 12 months 
or less. Saad Hammad entered into a service 
agreement dated 8 July 2013 and Andrew Knuckey  
into a service agreement dated 9 December 2010.  
Both service agreements are subject to 12 months’ 
notice by either party.
Upon termination, Executive Directors are entitled to 
salary and benefits for the duration of their notice 
period. It is the Committee’s policy to seek to mitigate 
the need for such payments. Each Executive Director 
has post-termination provisions which (among others) 
restrict the Executive Director from competing with 
Flybe for the duration of their notice period.
Executive Director service contracts are available  
to view at the Company’s registered office.
In the event that a participant ceases to be an 
employee of Flybe, treatment of outstanding awards 
under the Group’s long-term incentive plans will be 
determined based on the relevant plan rules. When 
considering any such payments, the Committee 
reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure  
they are fair to both shareholders and participants. 
> > Executive Directors will normally not be entitled to 
any bonus payment on termination of employment 
(or if notice of termination has been given). In certain 
‘good’ leaver circumstances, however, Mr Hammad 
will be eligible to receive an annual bonus, pro-rated 
for the portion of the financial year worked.
> > Under the one-off recruitment long-term incentive  
for Saad Hammad, the award will normally lapse  
if Mr Hammad leaves Flybe before the end of the 
performance period. At its discretion, the Committee 
may vary this treatment in certain leaver 
circumstances, i.e. where Mr Hammad is a ‘good’ 
leaver. In the event of a change of control, 
performance will be tested over a curtailed period 
based on the Company’s market capitalisation on the 
date of change of control.
> > Under the rules for the LTIP (under which it is 
proposed to make an award to Philip de Klerk on  
his joining Flybe), awards will lapse in the event a 
participant leaves Flybe, unless for reasons including, 
but not limited to, death, ill-health, permanent 
disability and redundancy. In these circumstances, 
awards will normally be pro-rated for time and vest  
at the normal time, subject to the achievement of  
the performance condition over the complete 
performance period. In the event of a change of 
control, the award will normally be pro-rated for time 
and vest based on performance over the period to 
the change of control. At its discretion, the 
Committee may vary these default treatments.
> > Note that there are no awards outstanding under  
the PSP. 
Non-Executive Director remuneration
Non-Executive Directors (‘NEDs’) do not have service 
contracts. Instead, their services are provided for under 
the terms of a letter of appointment with the Group 
and are subject to six months’ notice by either party. 
Details of the terms of appointment of the current 
NEDs are provided opposite.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 74 The NEDs are not eligible for bonuses or participation in share schemes and no pension contributions are made 
on their behalf.
Non-Executive Director
1
Date of appointment Expiry of current term
Charlie Scott 1 April 2006 31 March 2015
Alan Smith
2
1 April 2006 31 August 2014
David Longbottom 1 April 2006 31 March 2015
Simon Laffin 4 November 2013 See below
1
Timo Anderson 1 May 2014 See below
1
1
 Appointment will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
2
 Alan Smith will retire from the Board on 31 August 2014. 
Details of the policy on fees paid to our NEDs are set out in the table below: 
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Fees 
To attract and retain 
Non-Executive 
Directors with broad 
commercial and other 
experience relevant to 
the Company 
Fee levels are reviewed 
annually, with any adjustments 
effective 1 April in the year  
following review.
The fees paid to the Chairman 
are determined by the 
Committee, while the fees of 
the Non-Executive Directors 
are determined by the 
Executive Directors.
Additional fees are payable for 
acting as Senior Independent 
Director and as Chairman of 
any of the Board’s Committees  
(Audit, Remuneration,  
Safety & Security). 
Fee levels reflect the skills and 
experience of the NEDs, the 
market practice adopted in 
similar sized organisations and 
anticipated time commitments. 
Non-Executive Director fee 
increases are applied in line 
with the outcome of the 
annual fee review. Fees for 
the year under review (and 
the coming year) are set out 
in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
It is expected that any 
increases to NED fee levels 
will be in line with salaried 
employees over the life of the 
policy. However, in the event 
that there is a material 
misalignment with the 
market or a change in the 
complexity, responsibility or 
time commitment required to 
fulfil the NED role, the Board 
has discretion to make an 
appropriate adjustment to 
the fee level. 
None.
Recruitment policy for Non-Executive Directors
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the policy set out in the table above. A base 
fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable 
for acting as Senior Independent Director or as Chairman of the Board’s Committees, where appropriate.
External appointments 
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors may be appointed as a Non-Executive Director at other 
companies. Before granting permission, the Board will take into account, inter alia, the time commitment of the 
new role, the competitive status of the other company, the Listing Rules and the Code.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies – including 
trade unions and employee representatives – as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on 
matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the 
jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Committee is also mindful of the salary increases applying 
across the Group when considering salary increases for the Executive Directors. The Committee does not, 
however, consult with employees specifically on the effectiveness and appropriateness of the executive 
remuneration policy and framework.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 75 Directors’ remuneration 
Continued
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at each Annual General Meeting,  
as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy.  
The Committee continues to keep its remuneration arrangements under regular review, to ensure the 
remuneration policy continues to reinforce the Company’s long-term strategy and aligns closely with 
shareholders’ interests. We will consult, and seek approval from, shareholders before making any significant 
changes to our remuneration policy.
Annual report on remuneration
The following section provides details of how Flybe’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial 
year ended 31 March 2014.
Remuneration Committee membership  
in the year ended 31 March 2014
The Committee’s purpose is to advise the Board and make recommendations to it about all elements of  
the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of senior management as it is 
designated to consider, including any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.  
The Committee has agreed terms of reference that are available on the Flybe website. The Group complied  
with the provisions of the Code relating to Directors’ remuneration throughout the financial year.
The current members of the Committee are:
> > David Longbottom (Committee Chairman)
> > Timo Anderson (from 1 May 2014)
> > Simon Laffin (from 4 November 2013)
> > Charlie Scott
> > Alan Smith
The Committee meets at least twice each year and may request relevant Executive Directors and senior 
management to attend meetings by invitation. During the year under review the Committee received material 
assistance and advice from the Chief Executive Officer and the Director of HR. No individual is involved in 
decisions relating to their personal remuneration package.
During the year under review the Committee met on six occasions to consider, and agree, amongst other matters:
> > Executive Directors’ basic salaries and cash bonus arrangements for 2013/14.
> > Terms of the settlement agreement and other matters concerning the departures of Messrs Chown, French, 
Rutter and Strong during the year.
> > The remuneration package for Mr Hammad on his appointment as Chief Executive Officer in August 2013.
> > The design of the Flybe Long-Term Incentive Plan 2013.
Advisers
During the year, the Committee and the Group received remuneration advice from Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’),  
a firm of independent remuneration consultants. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of 
Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. 
In 2013/14 Kepler provided independent advice and data in respect of the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and other senior executives, short- and long-term incentive design, and the drafting of this (and last year’s) 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. Kepler does not advise the Company on any other issues other than remuneration 
and is considered independent by the Committee. Their total fees (including expenses, but excluding VAT) for the 
provision of remuneration services to the Committee in 2013/14 were £28,121 on the basis of time and materials. 
During the year, Eversheds LLP provided advice on legal issues related to share scheme matters, as well  
as on other matters not relating to remuneration in its capacity as the Group’s legal advisors.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 76 Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM
The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2012/13 Remuneration Report at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting:
Total number
of votes % of votes cast
For (including discretionary) 56,397,181 99.88%
Against 67,336 0.12%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 56,464,517 100.00%
Votes withheld 54,816
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 56,519,333
Single total figure of remuneration for Directors
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive and Non-Executive 
Director for the year ended 31 March 2014 and the prior year: 
Year
Base salary/
 fees
3
Benefits
4
Annual 
bonus
5
PSP
6
Pension Other Total
Executive Directors
Saad Hammad
1
2013/14 284,030 45,525 127,500
7
– 42,500 – 499,555
Andrew Knuckey 2013/14 283,048 8,518 – – 45,713 – 337,279
2012/13 300,300 8,486 – – 45,706 – 354,492
Non-Executive Directors
Simon Laffin
1, 8
2013/14 62,924 62,924
David Longbottom 2013/14 48,000 48,000
2012/13 48,000 48,000
Charlie Scott 2013/14 63,000 63,000
2012/13 63,000 63,000
Alan Smith 2013/14 48,000 48,000
2012/13 48,000 48,000
Former Directors
Anita Lovell
1
2013/14 10,769 10,769
2012/13 40,000 40,000
Mark Chown
1
2013/14 151,142 – – – – – 151,142
2012/13 153,000 – – – – – 153,000
Jim French
2
2013/14 296,277 11,643 – – 46,034 99,500
9
453,454
2012/13 505,785 19,186 – – 75,430 – 600,401
Mike Rutter
1
2013/14 295,647 8,518 – – 45,713 – 349,878
2012/13 300,350 8,486 – – 59,203 – 368,039
Peter Smith
1
2013/14 17,108 17,108
2012/13 48,000 48,000
Andrew Strong
1
2013/14 295,647 8,214 – – 45,713 – 349,574
2012/13 295,729 8,188 – – 45,713 – 349,630
 
1
  During the year, Messrs Hammad and Laffin joined the Board  
on 1 August 2013 and 4 November 2013 respectively. Messrs Chown,  
Strong and Rutter resigned as Directors on 4 August 2013, 
Mr French resigned on 4 November 2013, Ms Lovell resigned  
on 17 May 2013 and Mr P Smith resigned on 8 August 2013.
2
  Mr French stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 31 July 2013 
and as Non-Executive Chairman and a Director on 4 November 2013.  
The values in this single figure table reflect the remuneration 
received by Mr French in connection with being a Director over the 
period 1 April to 4 November 2013.
3
  Base salary includes a service increment of £350 for each of Messrs 
Knuckey, Rutter and Strong. This approach is consistent with that  
of other employees.
4
  Taxable benefits comprise private health insurance, car allowance 
(in 2013/14 – £9,667 for Mr Hammad; £7,000 for Messrs Knuckey,  
Rutter and Strong; £10,125 for Mr French) and a relocation allowance 
of £34,150 for Mr Hammad in connection to his appointment  
as Chief Executive Officer during the year.
5
  Payment for performance during the year. Details can be found  
on page 78.
6
  Reflects the value of PSP awards vesting for performance over a 
period ending in the relevant financial year. For 2013/14, reflects the 
lapsing of PSP awards awarded in August 2011. Details can be found 
on page 83. For 2012/13, reflects the lapsing of IPO PSP awards 
awarded in January 2011.
7
  Mr Hammad will donate his bonus of £127,500 for the year  
ended 31 March 2014 to charity (net of tax).
8
  Fees in respect of Mr Laffin are paid to Simon Laffin Business 
Services Limited.
9
  Reflects payments in connection with Mr French’s cessation  
of employment.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 77 Directors’ remuneration 
Continued
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2014
Annual Bonus in respect of 2013/14 performance
Saad Hammad
In respect of the period since Saad Hammad joined on 1 August 2013 until 31 March 2014, the Committee 
approved an annual bonus of £127,500, equal to 45% of his pro-rated salary for the period, reflecting his 
outstanding personal performance and delivery of all his personal objectives including restructuring and 
strengthening the organisation, a successful capital raise and development of the Group’s strategic and  
financial plan for the next five years. Given the level of redundancies associated with the Group’s transformation, 
Mr Hammad has elected to donate the net bonus amount in full to charity.
Other Executive Directors
For the year ended 31 March 2014, there was no annual bonus plan for other Executive Directors.
August 2011 PSP awards
Of the current Executive Directors, only Andrew Knuckey participated in the August 2011 PSP.
Long-term incentive awards in 2011 were made under the PSP. Vesting of awards was dependent on Flybe’s EPS 
growth and relative TSR performance over the three-year performance period ended 31 March 2014. There were 
no retest provisions under any of the awards. Further details, including vesting schedules and performance 
against each of the metrics is provided in the table below:
Measure Weighting Targets Outcome Vesting %
EPS growth 70% 0% vesting below 8% p.a.
25% vesting for 8% p.a.
100% vesting for 18% p.a. or more
Straight line vesting between these points
Below 8% p.a. 0%
TSR rank  
vs. selected 
comparators
1
30% 0% vesting below median
25% vesting for median performance
100% vesting for upper quartile performance or above
Straight line vesting between these points
Below median 0%
PSP vesting outcome 0%
1
   Aer Lingus, Air France-KLM, Dart Group, Deutsche Lufthansa, easyJet, IAG, Ryanair, SAS, Air Berlin, Cimber Sterling and Finnair.
Based on performance over the performance period, the following awards did not vest and will lapse in full  
on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Executive 
Interests
held
Vesting
%
Interests
vesting Date vested
Market price
on vesting
1
Value
Andrew Knuckey 173,410 0% – 5 August 2014 117.2p £nil
1
 Based on three-month average at 31 March 2014.
 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 78 Scheme interests awarded in the year ended 31 March 2014
Saad Hammad
As part of his remuneration arrangements on joining Flybe, and as approved by shareholders at the 2013  
Annual General Meeting, Saad Hammad received an award under the one-off LTIP which provides him with  
an entitlement to a cash payment based on the incremental growth in Flybe’s market capitalisation over  
a three year period commencing on 1 August 2013.
Under the terms of his award, Mr Hammad will be entitled to a cash sum equivalent to a fixed percentage of  
the incremental increase in market capitalisation between 1 August 2013 and 31 July 2016. Starting and ending 
market capitalisations for Flybe will be based on a three-month average market capitalisation to the relevant 
date. Mr Hammad will receive a 4% share of any incremental increase in market capitalisation if the ending market 
capitalisation is £150.0m or less. If the ending market capitalisation is greater than £150.0m, Mr Hammad will 
receive 4% of the incremental increase between the starting market capitalisation and £150.0m and a 3% share  
of any incremental increase in market capitalisation above the £150.0m threshold.
As disclosed in the Prospectus released on 20 February 2014 in connection to the Proposed Firm Placing and 
Placing and Open Offer, the Committee further agreed that the Ending Market Capitalisation should be reduced 
by the value of the aggregate subscription price paid for any new shares in the capital of the Company which  
are issued after the date that the Chief Executive Officer joined the Company, but on or before the end of the 
Performance Period. Accordingly, £156.0m will be deducted from the Ending Market Capitalisation, relating  
to the fundraising completed in March 2014.
To the extent the award vests at the end of the three-year performance period, 50% of the award will be released 
after three years, with the remainder released after further deferral periods of six months (25% of the award) and 
12 months (25% of the award).
Other Executive Directors
No long-term incentive awards were made to other Executive Directors during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Exit payments made in the year
Mark Chown, Mike Rutter and Andrew Strong ceased to be Directors on 13 September 2013. Notice was served  
in accordance with their service contracts, under which each Director continued to be entitled to base salary  
(at the level prior to the voluntary salary sacrifice disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report) and contractual 
benefits over their 12-month notice periods. In line with the Committee’s policy to seek to mitigate payments for 
Executive Directors’ contractual entitlements upon termination, Mr Rutter received 6.5 months of his 12-month 
contractual pay and benefits, in line with the notice period he served until leaving the Group on 31 March 2014. 
The PSP awards retained by Messrs Chown, Rutter and Strong lapsed following the end of the applicable 
performance period. Details of all remuneration received by Messrs Chown, Rutter and Strong in respect  
of the financial year ending 31 March 2014 are summarised in the single figure table on page 77.
Jim French was succeeded as Chief Executive Officer by Saad Hammad on 1 August 2013 and stepped down  
as Non-Executive Chairman and a Director of Flybe on 4 November 2013. Other than those payments included  
in the single figure table on page 77, benefits below a value of £1,000 and a contribution of £25,000 by the 
Company towards his legal fees, Mr French is entitled to receive £199,000 in connection with his cessation of 
employment. This comprises a contractual payment in lieu of notice of £154,000 (pursuant to his Letter of 
Appointment) and a discretionary payment of £45,000 (to facilitate an orderly transition to the new Board)  
as settlement of any claims in respect of the termination of his employment. 50% of the aggregate amount  
was paid in January 2014, with the balance being paid in July 2014. As a retiree of the Company, Mr French 
continues to be entitled to staff travel discounts. Mr French’s outstanding PSP and SIP awards lapsed on 
cessation of employment.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 79 Directors’ remuneration 
Continued
Payments to past Directors
No payments to past Directors were made during the year.
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in Chief Executive Officer remuneration from the prior year 
compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all employees.
The Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration includes base salary, taxable benefit and annual bonus and for 
2013/14 includes the sum of payments made to Saad Hammad and Jim French (in respect of his executive role 
until becoming Non-Executive Chairman on 1 August 2013). No employees have received pay rises (other than 
through promotion or change in role) in 2013/14. 
CEO
All 
employees
2013/14
£
2012/13
£
% change 
2013-2014
% change 
2013-2014
Base salary 448,916 505,875 (12.7)% 0.0%
Taxable benefits 49,013
1
19,186 155.5% 0.0%
Annual bonus 127,500
2
– n/a n/a
1
  Includes the relocation allowance in connection to Mr Hammad’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer during the year.
2
  Mr Hammad has elected to donate his net annual bonus amount in full to charity.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends and share buybacks) and total employee pay 
expenditure for the financial years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014, along with the percentage change  
in both. 
2013/14 2012/13
% change 
2013-2014
Shareholder distributions £nil £nil n/a
Total employee expenditure £98m £124m (21.0)%
Review of past performance
In line with the requirements of the Regulations, the chart below left shows the value of a hypothetical £100 
holding from the date Flybe’s shares were priced immediately prior to IPO (being 10 December 2010) to  
31 March 2014. The chart illustrates the TSR performance of the Group against the FTSE SmallCap Index.  
The FTSE SmallCap Index was chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Group  
has been a member since Admission in December 2010. 
The chart below right shows the value of a hypothetical £100 investment in Flybe since 1 August 2013, being  
the date that Saad Hammad joined the Group, including the three-month averaging period preceding this date 
that was used to determine the Starting Market Capitalisation under Mr Hammad’s recruitment LTIP award.  
Both charts are based on spot share prices and calculated in pounds sterling.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 80 Historical TSR performance
30 Apr 
2013
31 Mar 
2014
01 Aug
2013
Announcement of Mr Hammad’s appointment
Value of £100 invested on 31 May 2013
FTSE SmallCap index Flybe
0
100
200
300
Saad Hammad joins Flybe
0
100
200
300
9 Dec 
2010
31 Mar 
2014
31 Mar 
2011
31 Mar 
2012
31 Mar 
2013
Value of £100 invested on IPO
FTSE SmallCap index Flybe
The tables below detail the Chief Executive’s ‘single figure’ remuneration over the same period, split between 
Saad Hammad and Jim French for their respective tenures in the role.
Saad Hammad 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
Single figure of remuneration £499,555
Annual bonus outcome
1
 (% of max.) 30%
LTIP vesting outcome (% of max.) n/a
1
 Mr Hammad has elected to donate his net annual bonus amount in full to charity
Jim French 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
Single figure of remuneration £589,689 £606,785 £600,401 £212,395
Annual bonus outcome (% of max.) 0% 0% 0% 0%
LTIP vesting outcome (% of max.) n/a n/a 0% 0%
Implementation of policy for the year commencing 1 April 2014
Base salary
For the coming year, Executive Director salaries will be frozen at their 2013/14 levels, as follows:
Saad Hammad £425,000
Andrew Knuckey £300,000
1
1
  From 1 July 2013, Mr Knuckey elected to reduce his salary through four week’s salary sacrifice for a 12-month period.  
This is reflected in the single figure of remuneration table on page 77.
On joining Flybe, Philip de Klerk’s annual base salary will be £285,000.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 81 Directors’ remuneration 
Continued
Implementation of policy for the year commencing 1 April 2014 continued
Pension
Executive Directors are eligible to receive a company pension contribution of up to 15% of basic salary and also 
eligible to elect to join the main GPPP defined benefit scheme open to all UK employees. From April 2014, should 
contributions exceed the new Pensions Annual Allowance of £40,000, or if further pension contributions mean 
an individual exceeds the Lifetime Allowance, then the Executive Director may elect on a broadly cost-neutral 
basis for the Group to receive a non-bonusable cash supplement equal to the pension contribution amount. 
Saad Hammad and Andrew Knuckey have elected to receive their pension contributions as a non-bonusable  
cash supplement. Philip de Klerk on joining Flybe will be offered the opportunity to participate in the Group’s 
approved pension salary sacrifice scheme, which is open to all UK employees. 
Annual Bonus
The annual bonus for the 2015 financial year will be structured as disclosed in the Policy Table on page 70.  
The Remuneration Committee has approved performance targets for the CEO bonus for 2014/15, which are  
in line with the Group’s objectives for year. They represent a set of demanding targets for delivering on both  
new initiatives and continued corporate performance improvements. The measures and targets are considered 
commercially sensitive at this stage but will be communicated in the next Annual Report.
Long-term incentive awards
Other than the long-term incentive award to be made to Philip de Klerk on his joining Flybe later in 2014,  
no long-term incentive awards will be made to Executive Directors in the year ending 31 March 2015.
On joining Flybe, and in line with our Approach to Recruitment Remuneration, Mr de Klerk will receive a one-off 
phantom option grant under the LTIP (subject to shareholder approval of the plan rules at the 2014 AGM) worth 
300% of salary on the date of grant. This award will vest subject to the achievement of a three-year share price 
hurdle that will be set at grant. If the share price hurdle is met, an amount equal to the embedded gain at the end 
of the three-year performance period (capped at 300% of the grant-date share price) may vest. This will be paid 
50% on the 3rd anniversary of grant, 25% after a further six months and 25% on the 4th anniversary of grant. 
Further details of this award will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
Non-Executive Director fees were last reviewed in April 2012 and the annualised fees payable to the NEDs  
for the 2014/15 financial year are described below. The NED fee policy remains unchanged on that for the year  
to 31 March 2014.
Non-Executive Director
Basic fee
£
Committee
 chairmanship
 fee
£
Senior
 Independent
 Director fee
£
Total
£
Simon Laffin 150,000 – – 150,000
Charlie Scott 40,000 8,000 15,000 63,000
David Longbottom 40,000 8,000 – 48,000
Alan Smith
1
40,000 8,000 – 48,000
Timo Anderson
1
40,000 8,000 – 48,000
1
  Alan Smith will retire from the Board on 31 August, and will be replaced as Chairman of the Safety & Security Committee by Timo Anderson 
(who joined the Board on 1 May 2014).
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 82 Directors’ interests 
A table setting out the beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital in the year  
under review.
Executive Director
Holding at
31 March 2014
Holding at
1 April 2013
Saad Hammad 227,272 –
Andrew Knuckey 223,125 223,125
Directors’ shareholding status
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director as at 31 March 2014:
Shares held Options held
Owned 
outright 
or vested
Vested
but subject
to holding
 period
Unvested 
and subject 
to perf.
 conditions
Vested but 
not exercised
Unvested
and subject
to continued
 employment
Saad Hammad 227,272 – – – –
Andrew Knuckey 223,125 – – – 790
Simon Laffin 227,272 – – – –
David Longbottom 35,093 – – – –
Charlie Scott 20,833 – – – –
Alan Smith 45,499 – – – –
Directors’ interests in shares and share options 
PSP and SIP
Executive Scheme Date of grant
Interests 
held at 
1 April 2013
Interests
 awarded 
during 
the year
Interests 
vested 
during 
the year
Interests 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Interests 
held at 
31 March 2014
Andrew Knuckey PSP 21 January 2011 84,745 – – 84,745 –
Andrew Knuckey PSP
1
5 August 2011 173,410 – – – 173,410
Andrew Knuckey SIP
2
21 January 2011 100 – 100 – –
1
  PSP awards granted on 5 August 2011 were granted at the average market price of 173p of the last three trading days. The exercise price  
is £nil. Following the end of the performance period on 31 March 2014, the Committee determined that these awards would lapse in full.  
The lapse of these awards will be disclosed in next year’s report.
2
  Awards made under the SIP are subject to no further performance conditions, but are subject to a three-year holding period.
SAYE options
Executive
Interests 
held at
1 April 2013 Granted Exercised Lapsed
Interests 
held at 
31 March 2014 Exercise price
Date from 
which
 exercisable Expiry date
Andrew Knuckey 790 – – – 790 137p
5 August 
2014
5 February 
2015
On behalf of the Board
David Longbottom
Remuneration Committee Chairman
10 June 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 83 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance  
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law,  
the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS regulation and have 
also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
> > properly select and apply accounting policies;
> > present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information;
> > provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to 
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s 
financial position and financial performance; and
> > make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps  
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
> > the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
> > the Annual Report, including the Strategic Report, and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
strategy and business model; and
> > the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the  
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together  
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Saad Hammad Andrew Knuckey
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
10 June 2014 10 June 2014
 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 84 Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Flybe Group plc 
Opinion on financial statements of Flybe Group plc
In our opinion:
> > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 March 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
> > the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
> > the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
> > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows and the related  
notes 1 to 43. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent 
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ Statement contained within the Strategic Report 
that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
> > we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation  
of the financial statements is appropriate; and
> > we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability  
to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee  
as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Aircraft maintenance provisions 
Management continue to appropriately 
recognise provisions for maintenance 
obligations in relation to leased aircraft.
The quantification of these provisions require 
complex judgements and estimates to be 
made including considerations of aircraft 
utilisation, expected maintenance intervals 
and associated costs.
We evaluated the methodology and key assumptions adopted 
by management in their calculation of the aircraft maintenance 
provisions. This evaluation included:
> > testing the integrity and arithmetical accuracy of the provision 
model; and
> > consideration and challenge of the consistency and 
reasonableness of the assumptions adopted, including review  
of lease terms and conditions, testing of source data for the 
model, comparison of assumptions to recent interval and cost 
experience and corroborative discussions with engineering 
management, in particular in relation to asset lives and the 
consistency of the provisions with their assessment  
of aircraft condition.
Overview Strategic report Governance
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 85
Financial and  
other information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Carrying value of Flybe UK fixed assets  
and the interest in Flybe Finland
In accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of 
assets’, management have performed an 
assessment of any impairment indicators and 
their subsequent impact on the carrying value 
of the Flybe UK fixed assets and interest in the 
Flybe Finland joint venture.
There are a number of key judgements in 
determining the impairment indicators and 
the valuation of the recoverable amount 
including assumptions underpinning forecast 
revenue growth, profitability and cash flows, 
together with the discount rates applied to 
those forecasts.
We challenged the models used by management within their annual 
impairment assessment for both Flybe UK and Flybe Finland 
through benchmarking to independently available data and through 
detailed challenge of the underlying assumptions supporting the 
cash flow projections (including reference to historical accuracy of 
forecasting), discount rates and sensitivity analysis performed by 
management. 
In addition, valuation specialists within the audit team provided 
additional challenge over the discount rate applied to these cash 
flows through the use of external confirmation and benchmarking.
We checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model 
and assessed the appropriateness and sufficiency of the disclosures 
included in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition and provisioning 
Management have previously recorded certain 
provisions against revenue where revenue 
data derived from the revenue reporting 
systems, primarily arising from complex 
codeshare arrangements, needed amendment 
to properly reflect revenue in accordance with 
the Group’s revenue recognition criteria (as 
set out in note 3 to the financial statements).
These provisions primarily arise from  
activities such as inter-airline charge backs, 
air passenger tax recharges and ancillary 
revenue. Their quantification can involve 
complex data flows and in some cases 
judgment on the likely volume of rejected 
transactions.
We have carried out tests in relation to the design and 
implementation of the key controls over revenue recognition 
combined with appropriate substantive tests and analytical 
procedures of related revenue and revenue provisions. We have 
also challenged the judgements made in valuing the required 
revenue provisions and comparisons of those judgments with 
historical experience. 
In addition, computer audit specialist members of the audit  
team assist with the audit of the automated controls and the 
reconciliation of data in the revenue reporting systems to the 
general ledger.
Deferred tax asset recognition 
Management judgement is required in 
assessing the recoverability of the deferred 
tax asset, based on the likelihood of sufficient 
taxable profits arising in future period and the 
likelihood that the tax assets will be utilised.
 
We have evaluated management’s process to prepare the deferred 
tax calculation and considered the design and implementation of 
the controls in this process. 
We critically assessed the judgements over the level of forecast 
taxable profits available to support the recoverability of the 
deferred tax asset, involving tax specialists to assist with 
our assessment. 
An assessment of the audit work performed by overseas audit firms 
on Flybe Finland deferred tax balances was also carried out.
 
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on pages 60 and 61.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the 
financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above and we do not express an 
opinion on these individual matters.
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Flybe Group plc 
Continued
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 86 Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that 
the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use 
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be £1.7m, which is on a blended consideration of:
> > 8.5% of normalised profit before tax, being profit before tax adjusted to add back costs of one-off restructuring 
and surplus capacity in 2014; and
> > 0.27% of group revenue, which is a less volatile measure than profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess  
of £34,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-
wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level. Based on that assessment,  
our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at two locations being in the UK, where the main 
component business activity resides, and in Finland, for work in relation to the Flybe Finland joint venture. 
Our audit work comprised a full scope audit both in the UK and in Finland where the extent of our testing was 
based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations  
at that location. 
These components represent the principal business units and, together with head office, account for 100%  
of the Group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax. 
Our audit work in Finland was executed at a component materiality of £1.0m. The Group audit team directs  
the planning and risk assessment of the Finnish component auditor, reviews and challenges of the component 
auditor’s work and findings and attends a close meeting with local management. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures  
to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
> > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
> > the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 87 Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Flybe Group plc 
Continued
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
> > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
> > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit  
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
> > the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to the Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to 
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
> > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
> > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
> > otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to 
the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with the International Standard on Quality Control (UK and 
Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, 
understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review 
team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and  
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 88 Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient  
to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report  
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Anna Marks FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom
10 June 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 89 Consolidated income statement 
Year ended 31 March 2014
Note
2014
Before
 restructuring
 costs
£m
2014
 Restructuring
 costs
(note 7)
£m
2014
Total
£m
2013
Before
restructuring
costs
(restated)
£m
2013
 Restructuring
 costs
(note 7)
£m
2013
Total
(restated)
£m
Total revenue under management 868.4 – 868.4 781.5 – 781.5
Less: Joint venture revenue 16 (247.9) – (247.9) (167.2) – (167.2)
Group revenue 5 620.5 – 620.5 614.3 – 614.3
Consisting of:
Passenger revenue 553.9 – 553.9 551.8 – 551.8
Contract flying revenue 16.2 – 16.2 12.8 – 12.8
Revenue from other activities 50.4 – 50.4 49.7 – 49.7
620.5 – 620.5 614.3 – 614.3
Staff costs 8 (98.0) (9.6) (107.6) (124.0) (5.6) (129.6)
Fuel (120.0) – (120.0) (122.6) – (122.6)
Net airport and en route charges (122.1) – (122.1) (117.0) – (117.0)
Ground operations (73.7) – (73.7) (70.2) – (70.2)
Maintenance (41.9) – (41.9) (37.2) – (37.2)
Depreciation and amortisation (14.3) – (14.3) (12.0) – (12.0)
Aircraft rental charges (83.6) – (83.6) (78.1) – (78.1)
Marketing and distribution costs (23.3) – (23.3) (25.1) – (25.1)
Other operating gains/(losses) 0.9 10.5 11.4 (1.2) – (1.2)
Other operating expenses (43.0) (1.1) (44.1) (50.7) (2.4) (53.1)
Operating profit/(loss)  
before joint venture results 1.5 (0.2) 1.3 (23.8) (8.0) (31.8)
Share of joint venture loss 16 (0.5) – (0.5) (2.8) – (2.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 6 1.0 (0.2) 0.8 (26.6) (8.0) (34.6)
Investment income 9 0.7 – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Finance costs 10 (1.7) – (1.7) (2.5) – (2.5)
Other gains/(losses) 11 8.3 – 8.3 (4.7) – (4.7)
Profit/(loss) before tax 8.3 (0.2) 8.1 (33.1) (8.0) (41.1)
Tax charge 12 (0.1) – (0.1) (1.1) – (1.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 8.2 (0.2) 8.0 (34.2) (8.0) (42.2)
Earnings/(loss) per share:
Basic and diluted 13 9.6 (56.0)p
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 90 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
Year ended 31 March 2014
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Year ended 31 March 2014
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve 
£m
Retained
earnings/
(deficit) 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 April 2012 0.7 60.6 3.5 6.7 22.5 (4.6) 89.4
Loss for the year (restated) – – – – – (42.2) (42.2)
Other comprehensive income 
for the year (restated) – – 0.1 – – 0.2 0.3
Equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Balance at 31 March 2013 0.7 60.6 3.6 6.7 22.5 (46.0) 48.1
Profit for the year – – – – – 8.0 8.0
Other comprehensive loss 
for the year – – (11.0) – – (1.7) (12.7)
Equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Share capital issued 1.5 154.2 – – – – 155.7
Share issue expenses – (5.6) – – – – (5.6)
Balance at 31 March 2014 2.2 209.2 (7.4) 6.7 22.5 (39.1) 194.1
2014 
£m
2013 
(restated) 
£m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 8.0 (42.2)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
 Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation (2.2) 0.2
 Deferred tax arising on net defined benefit obligation 0.5 –
(1.7) 0.2
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
 (Losses)/gains arising during the year on cash flow hedges (15.7) 3.7
 Reclassification of gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges included in the income statement 3.2 (2.8)
 Deferred tax arising on cash flow hedges 2.1 –
 Foreign exchange translation differences (0.6) (0.8)
(11.0) 0.1
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (12.7) 0.3
Total comprehensive loss for the year (4.7) (41.9)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 91 Consolidated balance sheet 
At 31 March 2014
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 14 5.2 13.2
Property, plant and equipment 15 170.6 165.4
Interests in joint ventures 16 12.4 13.2
Other non-current assets 17 42.3 42.5
Restricted cash 20 6.6 7.2
Deferred tax asset 26 6.1 4.6
243.2 246.1
Current assets
Inventories 18 6.8 6.8
Trade and other receivables 19 85.8 87.8
Cash and cash equivalents 20 177.9 23.3
Restricted cash 20 33.9 24.2
Derivative financial instruments 25 0.4 5.7
Assets held for sale 21 – 11.9
304.8 159.7
Total assets 548.0 405.8
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (82.0) (97.9)
Deferred income 23 (70.7) (63.2)
Borrowings 24 (10.4) (18.7)
Provisions 27 (45.3) (26.9)
Derivative financial instruments 25 (8.0) (1.5)
(216.4) (208.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 24 (91.1) (102.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 26 (1.6) (2.6)
Provisions 27 (31.9) (33.8)
Deferred income 23 (9.5) (10.8)
Employee benefits 35 (2.5) –
Liability for share-based payments 34 (0.9) –
(137.5) (149.5)
Total liabilities (353.9) (357.7)
Net assets 194.1 48.1
Equity attributable to owners of the company
Share capital 28 2.2 0.7
Share premium account 29 209.2 60.6
Hedging reserve (7.4) 3.6
Other reserves 6.7 6.7
Capital redemption reserve 22.5 22.5
Retained deficit 30 (39.1) (46.0)
Total equity 194.1 48.1
The financial statements of Flybe Group plc, registered number 1373432, were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 10 June 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Saad Hammad Andrew Knuckey
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 92 Consolidated cash flow statement 
Year ended 31 March 2014
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) for the year 8.0 (42.2)
Adjustments for:
 Restructuring costs 10.7 8.0
 Unrealised (gains)/losses on derivative contracts (1.3) 0.7
 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 14.3 13.5
 Investment income (0.7) (0.7)
 Finance costs 1.7 2.5
 Other net (gains)/losses (8.3) 4.7
 (Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.2) 1.4
 Profit on sale of assets held for sale (0.4) –
 Profit on sale of intangible assets (10.5) –
 Transfer of property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale – (11.6)
 Share-based payment expenses 1.5 0.6
 Share of joint venture loss 0.5 2.8
 Taxation 0.1 1.1
15.4 (19.2)
 Cash paid in respect of restructuring costs (12.8) (1.4)
 Increase in restricted cash (9.1) (6.7)
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (8.2) 8.4
 Increase in inventories – (0.2)
 (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (9.8) 7.5
 Increase in assets held for sale – 11.6
 Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee benefits 19.0 (3.0)
(20.9) 16.2
Tax paid – –
Net cash flows from operating activities (5.5) (3.0)
Cash flows from investing activities
 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.3 10.6
 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 17.5 –
 Proceed from sale of assets held for sale 12.3 –
 Decrease/(increase) in pre-delivery deposits 11.8 (0.2)
 Interest received 0.7 0.7
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (19.9) (39.4)
 Capitalised computer software expenditure (1.3) (4.0)
 Acquisition of joint venture interest – (0.3)
Net cash flows from investing activities 22.4 (32.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
 Proceeds from new loans 14.7 39.5
 Net proceeds on issue of shares 150.1 –
 Interest paid (1.7) (2.5)
 Repayment of borrowings (25.4) (21.0)
Net cash flows from financing activities 137.7 16.0
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 154.6 (19.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 23.3 42.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 177.9 23.3
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
1. General information
Flybe Group plc is a company incorporated in the 
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.  
The address of the registered office is given on  
page 65. The nature of the UK Group’s operations  
and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 8 to 44.
These financial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling because that is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
The following amendments and interpretations are also 
effective for the first time in the current year but have 
had no impact on the results or financial position  
of the Group:
Amendments to  
IFRS 7 (December 2011)
Financial Instruments – 
Disclosures
IFRS 10  
(May 2011)
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
IFRS 11  
(May 2011) Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12  
(May 2011)
Disclosures of Interests  
in Other Entities
IFRS 13  
(May 2011) Fair Value Measurement
IAS 27 revised  
(May 2011)
Separate Financial  
Statements
IAS 28 revised  
(May 2011)
Investments in Associates  
and Joint Ventures
Amendment to  
IAS 19 (June 2011) Employee Benefits
At the date of authorisation of these financial 
statements, the following Standards and Interpretations 
which have not been applied in these financial 
statements were in issue but not yet effective (and  
in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 9  
(November 2009)
Financial Instruments – 
Classification and Measurement
Amendment to  
IAS 32 (December 2011)
Financial Instruments – 
Presentation
IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ and the  
related consequential amendments have impacted  
the accounting for the Group’s defined benefit scheme,  
by replacing the interest cost and expected return  
on plan assets with a new net interest charge on the 
pensions scheme surplus or deficit. For the current 
period, the profit and other comprehensive income is 
in line with what would have been prior to the adoption 
of IAS 19 (revised 2011). For the comparative period, 
the restated loss is £0.4m higher, giving a loss before 
tax of £41.1m (previously a loss of £40.7m), and other 
comprehensive profit/(loss) is £0.4m better than 
previously reported at a profit of £0.3m (previously 
a loss of £0.1m). There is no impact on the net assets  
or reserves position at either 31 March 2013 or  
31 March 2012.
3. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’). The financial statements have also been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted  
by the European Union and therefore the Group  
financial statements comply with Article 4  
of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared  
on the historical cost basis, except for certain  
financial instruments that are recorded at fair value. 
The principal accounting policies adopted, which  
have been applied consistently in the current  
and the prior financial year, are outlined below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate  
the financial statements of the Company and entities 
controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made  
up to 31 March each year. Control is achieved where  
the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an investee entity  
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included  
in the consolidated financial statements from the  
date that control commences until the date that  
control ceases.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and 
expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the 
financial statements, a reasonable expectation that  
the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the going  
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial 
statements. Further detail is contained in the Financial 
Review on page 33.
Business combinations
The cost of a business combination is measured as  
the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange 
of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed  
in exchange for control. The assets and liabilities  
and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity are 
measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 94 When the initial accounting for a business combination 
is determined provisionally, any adjustments to the 
provisional values to reflect new information about 
facts or circumstances which existed at the acquisition 
date are made within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Where the cost of a business combination exceeds  
the net fair value of the acquired assets, liabilities  
and contingent liabilities, goodwill is recognised as an 
asset and initially measured at cost. Where the net fair 
value of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities exceeds the cost of a business combination, 
the identification of acquired assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities is reassessed before recognising 
the excess immediately in the income statement.
Investments in joint ventures
A joint venture is an entity over which the Group has 
control jointly with one or more other parties and that 
is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in an associate. 
Joint control is contractually agreed sharing of control 
over an economic activity, where the strategic financial 
and operating decisions relating to the activity require 
the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures 
are incorporated in these financial statements using 
the equity method of accounting, except when the 
investment is classified as held for sale, in which  
case it is accounted for in accordance with  
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations.
Under the equity method, the interest in joint ventures 
is carried on the balance sheet at cost plus post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of its net 
assets, less distributions received and less any 
impairment in value of the individual investments.  
The Group income statement reflects the share of the 
jointly controlled entity’s results after tax. Where there 
has been a change recognised in the comprehensive 
income of the jointly controlled entity, the Group 
recognises its share of any such changes in the Group 
statement of comprehensive income. Losses of a joint 
venture in excess of the Group’s interest in that joint 
venture (which includes any long-term interests that,  
in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in the joint venture) are recognised only to the extent 
that the Group has incurred legal or constructive 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the  
joint venture.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a jointly 
controlled entity, representing the excess of the cost  
of the investment compared to the Group’s share of the 
net fair value of the entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying 
amount of the jointly controlled entity and is not 
amortised. To the extent that the fair value of the 
entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment,  
a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share  
of the entity’s profit or loss in the year in which the 
investment is acquired.
Costs associated with the acquisition of a joint venture 
are capitalised into the initial cost of investment.
Revenue and revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable and represents 
amounts receivable for goods and services provided  
in the normal course of business, net of discounts,  
VAT and other sales-related taxes and comprises:
Passenger revenue
Scheduled and charter passenger ticket sales, net  
of passenger taxes and discounts, are recorded  
in a ‘forward sales’ account and are included in current 
liabilities, within deferred income, until recognised as 
revenue when transportation occurs. This also includes 
revenue derived from flights operated by the Group’s 
codeshare partners.
For flights purchased by members of the ‘Frequent 
Flyer Programme’, an element of revenue representing 
the sales value of flights which these customers may 
take in future at no cost is deferred and recognised 
when the related free flights have been taken.  
The amount of deferral is based on the fair value  
of an equivalent flight. 
Unused tickets are recognised as revenue when  
the right to travel expires and the Group’s obligation  
to refund ceases, which is determined by the terms  
and conditions of these tickets.
Ancillary revenue, comprising principally baggage 
carriage, advanced seat assignment, commissions, 
change fees and credit and debit card fees due  
to the Group, are recognised as revenue on the date 
the right to receive consideration occurs. In respect  
of credit and debit card fees and hotel and insurance 
commission, this occurs when each flight is booked 
and paid for. For the remaining ancillary revenue,  
this occurs on the date of transportation, as this  
is when the service is generally provided.
Commission received from the issue of Flybe branded 
credit cards by a third party provider is deferred  
to the extent that it relates to free flights which the 
Group is required to offer as part of the transaction. 
Commission received in excess of the sales value  
of free flights granted to card-holders is recognised 
immediately as revenue. Revenue associated with free 
flights is recognised when the related flights are taken.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Revenue and revenue recognition continued
Aircraft maintenance and other revenue
These represent the amounts derived from the provision 
of goods and services to customers during the year, 
including aircraft maintenance, overhauls and the 
associated rotable and consumable parts. The amount 
of profit attributable to the stage of completion of an 
engine and maintenance overhaul contract is recognised 
when the outcome of the contract can be foreseen with 
reasonable certainty. Revenue for such contracts  
is stated at the cost appropriate to the stage  
of completion plus attributable profits, less amounts 
recognised in previous years. Provision is made  
for any losses as soon as they are foreseen.
Other revenues, such as for cargo and contract flying, 
are recognised in the period when the services are 
provided.
 
Interest revenue
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that 
the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Interest 
income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected 
life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount on initial recognition.
Operating profit/(loss)
Operating profit/(loss) is stated as profit/(loss) after 
charging restructuring costs and after the share of 
results of joint ventures but before tax, investment 
income, finance costs and other gains and losses.
Foreign currencies
Transactions arising, other than in the functional 
currency, are recorded using the rate of exchange 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
re-translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies that are stated  
at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.  
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are not translated.
For the purposes of presenting Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the assets and liabilities associated with 
the Group’s foreign operations (i.e. investment in joint 
ventures) are translated at exchange rates prevailing  
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items 
associated with the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at the average exchange rate for the period. 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised  
in other comprehensive income and accumulated  
in equity. On disposal of a foreign operation, all of the 
accumulated exchange differences in respect of that 
operations attributable to the Group are reclassified to 
profit or loss.
Exchange differences are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they arise.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at their cost, 
less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Aircraft and engines and other associated equipment 
are classified as aircraft. All other equipment  
is classified as plant and equipment.
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on 
acquisition to prepaid maintenance of its engines and 
airframe and is amortised over a period from one to 
five years from the date of purchase to the date of the 
next scheduled maintenance event for the component. 
Subsequent costs, such as long-term scheduled 
maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft, are 
capitalised and amortised over the length of period 
benefiting from these costs. All other costs relating  
to maintenance are charged to the income statement  
as incurred.
Interest costs incurred on borrowings that specifically 
fund progress payments on assets under construction, 
principally aircraft, are capitalised up to the date of 
completion and included as part of the asset.
Advance payments and option payments made in 
respect of aircraft purchase commitments and options 
to acquire aircraft where the balance is expected to be 
funded by lease financing are recorded at cost in 
current or non-current aircraft deposits. On acquisition 
of the related aircraft, these payments are included as 
part of the cost of aircraft and are depreciated from 
that date.
Depreciation is provided by the Group to write off the 
cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed 
assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful 
economic lives as follows:
Freehold land Nil
Freehold and short 
leasehold buildings
2% to 10% per annum  
or lease term where shorter
Plant, equipment  
and motor vehicles 10% to 50% per annum
Aircraft 7% to 20% per annum
Maintenance assets 25% to 50% per annum
Estimated residual values are reviewed annually at each 
period end, with reference to current market conditions. 
Where estimated residual values are found to have 
changed significantly, this is accounted for prospectively 
as a change in estimate and depreciation charges over 
the remaining useful life of the asset are adjusted to take 
account of the revised estimate of residual value.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 96 Non-current assets held for sale
Where assets are available for sale in their current 
condition, and their disposal is highly probable (there  
is a committed plan to sell the asset and management 
has initiated the process to locate a buyer), they are 
reclassified as held for sale. Assets held for sale are 
measured at the lower of their carrying value and the 
fair value less costs to sell.
Depreciation on fixed or intangible assets ceases at the 
point of their reclassification to assets held for sale.
Intangible assets
Computer software
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if 
the product or process is technically and commercially 
feasible and the Group intends to, and has the technical 
ability and sufficient resources to, complete 
development and if the Group can measure reliably the 
expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development. The expenditure capitalised includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate 
proportion of overheads. Other development 
expenditure is recognised in the income statement  
as an expense as incurred.
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. It is amortised on a straight-line basis 
over its useful economic life of five years.
Landing rights
Intangible assets acquired are recognised to the extent 
it is probable that expected future benefits will flow to 
the Group and the associated costs can be measured 
reliably. Landing rights acquired either as part of a 
business combination or separately are capitalised at 
fair value at that date and are not amortised where 
those rights are considered to be indefinite. Landing 
rights are considered to have an indefinite life only 
when they will remain available for use for the 
foreseeable future provided minimum utilisation 
requirements are met. The carrying value of these 
rights is subject to impairment testing annually  
or when events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that carrying values may not be recoverable.
Disposals of property, plant, equipment and 
intangible assets
The gain or loss on disposal of property, plant, 
equipment and intangible assets after deducting any 
costs associated with selling, disposing of or retiring 
the relevant asset is recognised in the income 
statement and reported under other operating  
gains or losses.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 
excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the 
carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets 
to determine whether there is any indication that those 
assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such 
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset  
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to 
be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.  
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense 
immediately.
Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there  
is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply 
with the conditions attaching to them and that the 
grants will be received. Once such assurance exists, 
government grants are either recognised in the income 
statement or, where related to property, plant and 
equipment, are treated as deferred income and 
released to the income statement over the expected 
useful lives of the assets concerned.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value as follows:
Aircraft consumables
These comprise aircraft parts which are non-repairable 
and non-renewable. These are valued at the lower  
of cost or net realisable value for each separately 
identified batch purchased.
 
Aircraft deposits
Aircraft deposits represent deposits made with aircraft 
manufacturers for future delivery of aircraft or deposits 
made with aircraft financiers or operating lessors to 
provide security for future maintenance work or lease 
payments.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the relevant instrument.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Classification of financial instruments issued  
by the Group
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated 
as equity only to the extent that they meet the 
following two conditions:
> > they include no contractual obligations upon  
the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets  
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities 
with another party under conditions that are 
potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
> > where the instrument will or may be settled in the 
Company’s own equity instruments, it is either  
a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver  
a variable number of the Company’s own equity 
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled  
by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash 
or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own 
equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the 
proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. 
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form 
of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented 
in these financial statements for called up share capital 
and share premium account exclude amounts in 
relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities 
are dealt with as part of finance expenses. Finance 
payments associated with financial instruments that 
are classified in equity are treated as distributions and 
are recorded directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the 
financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange 
rates and commodity prices and uses forward foreign 
exchange contracts and commodity swaps to hedge 
these exposures. The Group does not use derivative 
financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised 
and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The Group designates hedges of foreign exchange  
and commodity price risks on firm commitments  
as cash flow hedges. Hedge accounting is applied  
to these instruments.
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments that are designated and are effective  
as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income and any ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement in the ‘other gains and losses’ line item.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are 
recognised in the income statement in the same period 
in which the hedged item affects net income or loss. 
These amounts are recorded in the same line of the 
income statement as the hedged item. However, when 
the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial 
liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated  
in equity are transferred from equity and included  
in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-
financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group 
revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, 
or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain 
or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at 
that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised 
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised 
in the income statement. When a forecast transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss 
accumulated in equity is recognised immediately  
in the income statement.
 
Financial assets
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised  
on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial 
asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery 
of the investment within the timeframe established by 
the market concerned. Initially they are measured at fair 
value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial 
assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss 
(‘FVTPL ’) or at fair value designated and effective  
as hedges, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following 
specified categories: financial assets at FVTPL, 
financial assets that are designated and effective  
as hedging instruments and ‘loans and receivables’. 
The classification depends on the nature and purpose 
of the financial assets and is determined at the time  
of initial recognition. The Group holds no ‘available- 
for-sale’ or ‘held-to-maturity’ financial assets.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the 
financial asset is either held for trading or is designated 
as at FVTPL. A fuel or foreign exchange hedging 
instrument is classified as held for trading if it is  
a derivative that is not designated and effective  
as a hedging instrument. A fuel or foreign exchange 
hedging instrument may be designated as at FVTPL 
upon initial recognition if the instrument forms part  
of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities,  
or both, which is managed and its performance is 
evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the 
Group’s documented risk management strategy, and 
information about the grouping is provided internally 
on that basis.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 98 Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value,  
with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement 
recognised in the income statement. The net gain  
or loss recognised in the income statement 
incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the 
financial asset and is included in the ‘unrealised gains 
and losses on fuel and foreign exchange hedges’  
line item or ‘other gains and losses’ line item in the 
income statement depending upon the nature  
of the instrument. Fair value is determined in the 
manner described in note 36.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that 
have fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted in an active market are classified as ‘loans and 
receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method,  
less any impairment. Interest income is recognised  
by applying the effective interest rate, except for  
short-term receivables when the recognition  
of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are 
assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance 
sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there  
is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more 
events that occurred after the initial recognition of the 
financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the 
investment have been affected.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only  
when the contractual rights to the cash flows from  
the asset expire; or it transfers the financial asset and 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership  
of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither 
transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership and continues to control the 
transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained 
interest in the asset and an associated liability for 
amounts it may have to pay.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash, for the purposes of the cash flow statement, 
comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable  
on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Cash equivalents are current asset investments which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash at, 
or close to, their carrying values or traded in an active 
market, without curtailing or disrupting the business.
Restricted cash
Restricted cash represents funds held by the Group  
in bank accounts which cannot be withdrawn until 
certain conditions have been fulfilled. The aggregate 
restricted funds balance is disclosed by way of a note 
to these financial statements and is classified as a 
current or non-current asset based on the estimated 
remaining length of the restriction.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either 
financial liabilities or equity instruments according  
to the substance of the contractual arrangements.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences  
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after 
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued 
by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, 
net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are recognised as either financial 
liabilities at FVTPL, financial liabilities that are 
designated and effective as hedging instruments,  
or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when  
the financial liability is either held for trading or it is 
designated as at FVTPL. A fuel or foreign exchange 
hedging instrument is classified as held for trading  
if it is a derivative that is not designated and effective 
as a hedging instrument. A fuel or foreign exchange 
hedging instrument may be designated as at FVTPL 
upon initial recognition if the instrument forms part  
of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities,  
or both, which is managed and its performance  
is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with 
the Group’s documented risk management strategy, 
and information about the grouping is provided 
internally on that basis.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Financial liabilities continued
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, 
with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement 
recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss 
recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest 
paid on the financial liability and is included in the 
‘unrealised gains and losses on fuel hedges’ line item  
or ‘other gains and losses’ line item in the income 
statement. Fair value is determined in the  
following manner:
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings,  
are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction 
costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis. The effective interest method  
is a method of calculating the amortised cost of  
a financial liability and of allocating interest expense 
over the relevant period. The effective interest rate  
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
payments through the expected life of the financial 
liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period,  
to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and 
only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or they expire.
 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has  
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result  
of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation and a reliable  
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle the 
present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking 
into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding 
the obligation. Where a provision is measured using  
the cash flows estimated to settle the present 
obligation, its carrying amount is the present  
value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required  
to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from 
a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset  
if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will  
be received and the amount of the receivable  
can be measured reliably.
Leased aircraft maintenance provisions
The Group incurs liabilities for maintenance costs  
in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases 
during the term of the lease. These arise from the 
contractual obligations relating to the condition  
of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.  
To discharge these obligations, the Group will either 
need to compensate the lessor for the element of the 
life of the component or maintenance interval used,  
or carry out the maintenance check before return  
of the aircraft to the lessor.
The provisions recorded and charged to the income 
statement are dependent on the life of the component 
or maintenance interval used and the individual terms 
of the lease:
> > No charge is recorded during the initial period  
of lease agreements where no compensation  
or maintenance is required prior to hand-back.
> > After a component or maintenance interval  
passes its half-life (or another measure depending  
on the individual lease) and compensation would  
be due to the lessor in accordance with the terms  
of the lease, a provision and matching income 
statement charge is recorded equal to the amount  
of compensation that would be required based  
on the hours or cycles flown at the balance  
sheet date.
> > After a component or maintenance interval has 
passed the trigger point such that the Group  
is contractually obliged to carry out the specified 
work, a full provision for the cost of work is recorded. 
To the extent that this provision represents an 
increase to the half-life compensation provision 
already recorded a maintenance asset is recorded 
within property, plant and equipment. The asset  
is depreciated over the expected period to the next 
half-life compensation point, or the end of the lease, 
whichever is sooner.
Where maintenance is provided under ‘power by the 
hour’ contracts and maintenance paid to maintenance 
providers to cover the cost of the work is deemed  
to be irrecoverable, these payments are expensed  
as incurred and maintenance provisions are reduced  
to reflect the fact that the Group has already paid for 
the related maintenance work. Maintenance deposits 
which are refundable are recorded as other receivables.
Estimates are required to establish the likely utilisation 
of the aircraft, the expected cost of a maintenance 
check at the time it is expected to occur, the condition 
of an aircraft and the lifespan of life-limited parts.  
The bases of all estimates are reviewed once each year 
and also when information becomes available that  
is capable of causing a material change to an estimate, 
such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, 
increased or decreased utilisation, or unanticipated 
changes in the cost of heavy maintenance services.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 100 Restructuring provision
A restructuring provision is recognised when  
the Group has developed a detailed formal plan  
for the restructuring and has raised valid expectations 
in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring 
by starting to implement the plan or announcing its 
main features to those affected by it. The measurement 
of a restructuring provision includes only the direct 
expenditures arising from the restructuring, which  
are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed  
by the restructuring and not associated with the 
ongoing activities of the entity.
Leases
Operating leases
Rental charges on operating leases are charged  
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the life of the lease. In the event that lease incentives 
are received to enter into operating leases, such 
incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction  
of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the life  
of the respective asset.
Sale and leaseback
The Group enters into sale and leaseback transactions 
whereby it sells aircraft, or rights to acquire aircraft,  
to a third party. Flybe subsequently leases the aircraft 
back, by way of operating lease. Any profit or loss on 
the disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold  
for is not considered to be fair value, is deferred and 
amortised over the lease term of the asset.
Finance leases
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails 
taking substantially all the risk and rewards of 
ownership of an asset, the lease is treated as a ‘finance 
lease’. The asset is recorded in the balance sheet as 
property, plant and equipment, and is depreciated over 
the estimated useful life to the Group. The asset is 
recorded at the lower of its fair value, less accumulated 
depreciation, and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments at the inception of the finance lease. 
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance 
charges, are included as obligations under finance 
leases. Rental payments are apportioned between  
the finance element, which is charged to the income 
statement, and the capital element, which reduces  
the outstanding obligation for future instalments.  
The finance charge is allocated to each period during 
the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, which 
are assets that necessarily take a substantial period  
of time to get ready for their intended use or sale,  
are added to the costs of those assets, until such time  
as the assets are substantially ready for their intended 
use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary 
investment of specific borrowings pending their 
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from  
the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current 
and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income 
statement, except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised directly in equity, in which case  
it is recognised in equity.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable  
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net  
profit as reported in the income statement because  
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable 
or deductible in other years and it excludes items that 
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability  
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable  
or recoverable on differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used  
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted 
for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that  
future taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of other assets 
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither  
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable 
temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control  
the reversal of the temporary difference and  
it is probable that the temporary difference  
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profits will be available to allow all or part of the  
asset to be recovered.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Taxation continued
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the period when the liability  
is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the income statement, except 
when it relates to items charged or credited directly  
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority and the Group intends to settle its current  
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Employee benefit costs
The Group operates defined contribution and defined 
benefit pension schemes.
For the defined contribution schemes, the assets  
of the schemes are held separately from those of the 
Group in independently administered funds. The 
amount charged to the income statement represents 
the contributions payable to the schemes in respect  
of the accounting period.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing 
benefits is determined using the Project Unit Credit 
Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out  
at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement 
comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect  
of the asset ceiling and the return on scheme assets 
(excluding interest) are recognised immediately  
in the balance sheet with a charge to the statement  
of comprehensive income in the period in which they 
occur. Remeasurement recorded in the statement of 
comprehensive income is not recycled. Net-interest 
income (or expense) is recognised within finance costs 
and is calculated by applying a discount rate to the  
net defined benefit liability. The Group presents the 
administration costs of the scheme in other operating 
costs in its consolidated income statement.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet represents the deficit in the 
Group’s defined benefit schemes. If a surplus resulted 
from this calculation it would be limited to the present 
value of any economic benefit available in the form  
of refund from the schemes or reduction in future 
contributions to the schemes.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees 
and others providing similar services are measured  
at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant 
date. The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-
based vesting conditions. Details regarding the 
determination of the fair value of equity-settled  
share-based transactions are set out in note 34.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the 
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed  
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based 
on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that  
will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date, the 
Group revises its estimate of the number of equity 
instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect  
of non market-based vesting conditions. The impact  
of the revision of the original estimates, if any,  
is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative 
expense reflects the revised estimate, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated 
as cancelled when employees cease to contribute  
to the scheme. This results in accelerated recognition 
of the expense that would have arisen over the 
remainder of the original vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability  
is recognised for the good or services required, 
measured initially at the fair value of the liability. At 
each balance sheet date until the liability is settled and 
at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is 
remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised 
in profit or loss for the year.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty 
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, 
which are described in note 3, the Directors are 
required to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets  
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other 
sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience and other factors that 
are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the 
estimate is revised if the revision affects only that 
period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and  
future periods.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 102 Critical judgements in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from 
those involving estimations (which are dealt with 
separately below), that the Directors have made  
in the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies and that have the most significant effect  
on the amounts recognised in financial statements:
Carrying value of aircraft
The Group had a net book value of approximately 
£147.0m for aircraft as at 31 March 2014. Changes to 
the Group’s estimation of useful lives, residual values 
and potential for impairment would have a material 
effect on the valuation of the Group’s assets and  
on its operating profit/(loss).
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the  
end of each reporting period. Estimates of useful lives 
of aircraft are based on judgements as to expected 
usage of the aircraft, timing of maintenance events,  
the Group’s route and fleet plans and on changes 
within the wider aviation industry. Estimates of residual 
value are based on current market values of aircraft  
in the same expected age and condition expected  
at the end of the asset’s useful life to the Group.
The carrying value of aircraft, property, equipment  
and other tangible assets is reviewed for impairment  
at least annually and when events or changes  
in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not 
be recoverable. Factors that would indicate a potential 
impairment of aircraft would include a significant 
reduction in market values based on appraisers’ data 
for the aircraft type, a significant change in the physical 
condition of the aircraft and a reduction in forecast 
cash flows arising from operating the asset. Carrying 
value is assessed based on the appraised data and 
forecast cash flows.
Aircraft maintenance
On acquisition of an aircraft, a proportion of the cost  
of the aircraft is allocated to engines and other material 
components with different useful lives to the airframe. 
Judgement is required to determine the amount  
of cost to allocate based on the estimated cost  
of overhauling the components, and the time between 
maintenance events. This judgement affects the 
amounts recognised as a depreciation expense  
given the different useful lives of the components.
For aircraft held under operating leases, the Group  
has a commitment to return the aircraft in a specific 
maintenance condition at the end of the lease term. 
Estimating the provision for maintenance costs 
requires judgement as to the cost and timing of future 
maintenance events. This estimate is based on planned 
usage of the aircraft, contractual obligations under 
lease agreements, industry experience, manufacturers’ 
guidance and regulations. Any change in these 
assumptions could potentially result in a significant 
change to the maintenance provisions and costs  
in future periods.
Recognition of deferred tax assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities 
based on the temporary differences between the 
financial statement carrying amounts and the tax  
bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets  
are reviewed regularly to assess potential realisation, 
and where the Directors believe that realisation is not 
probable, that portion of the asset is not recorded.  
In performing this review, Flybe makes estimates  
and assumptions regarding projected future taxable 
income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing 
temporary differences and the implementation of tax 
planning strategies. A change in these assumptions 
could cause an increase or decrease in the amount 
recognised resulting in an increase or decrease in the 
effective tax rate, which could materially impact the 
results of operations. As a result of the Group’s 
performance, the net deferred tax asset has increased 
from £2.0m to £4.0m at 31 March 2014 (see note 26).
Restructuring provision
The Group recognises a restructuring provision when 
the detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been 
determined and has raised valid expectations in those 
affected that it will carry out the restructuring by 
announcing its main features to those affected  
by it or implementing the plan. Flybe makes estimates 
and assumptions particularly in relation to whether a 
cost will be incurred, its value and the period in which 
cash (or other resources) will leave the Group. A 
change in these assumptions could cause an increase 
or decrease in the amount recognised as a provision 
which could materially impact the results of operations.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other 
key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance 
sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing  
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities within the next financial  
year are discussed below.
Employee benefits
Accounting for pensions and other post–retirement 
benefits involves judgement about uncertain events 
including, but not limited to, discount rates, life 
expectancy, future pay inflation and expected health 
care cost trend rates. Determination of the projected 
benefit obligations for the Group’s defined benefit 
scheme is important to the recorded amount of benefit 
expense in the income statement and valuation of the 
balance sheet. Details of the assumptions used are 
included in note 35. Any change in these assumptions 
could potentially result in a significant change to the 
pension assets/(liabilities), commitments and pension 
costs in future periods.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
5. Business and geographical segments
During the financial year, the Group’s divisions have been removed and the business has been refocused into  
One Flybe. Under IFRS 8, Flybe reports three business segments in order to comply with accounting standards. 
Comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been restated to correspond with the new structure.
The chief operating decision maker responsible for resource allocation and when assessing performance of 
operating segments has been identified as the Operating Board. Operating segments are reported in a manner 
which is consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker:
Flybe UK This business segment comprises the Group’s main scheduled UK domestic and UK-Europe 
passenger operations and revenue ancillary to the provision of those services.
Flybe Finland This business segment comprises the Group’s Finnish contract flying and scheduled 
passenger operations and revenue ancillary to the provision of those services.
MRO This segment aims to provide aviation services to customers, largely in Western Europe.  
The MRO supports Flybe’s UK and Finnish activities as well as serving third-party customers.
Segment revenues and results
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis.
2014 
£m
2013 
(restated) 
£m
Segment revenues:
Flybe UK 599.6 589.4
Flybe Finland 247.9 167.2
MRO 35.4 40.5
Inter-segment sales (14.5) (15.6)
Revenue under management 868.4 781.5
Less: Revenue from Flybe Finland joint venture (see note 16) (247.9) (167.2)
Group revenue (excluding investment income) 620.5 614.3
2014 2013 (restated)
Before
 restructuring
 costs
£m
Net 
restructuring
 costs
(note 7)
£m
 Total
£m
Before
 restructuring
 costs
£m
Net 
restructuring
 costs
(note 7)
£m
Total
£m
Segment results:
Flybe UK (including net finance costs 
of £1.4m in 2014 and £2.1m in 2013) 6.9 (0.2) 6.7 (28.4) (4.1) (32.5)
Flybe Finland (including investment income  
of £0.4m in 2014 and £0.3m in 2013) (0.8) – (0.8) (3.5) – (3.5)
MRO 2.2 – 2.2 (1.2) (3.9) (5.1)
Total segment profit/(loss) before tax 8.3 (0.2) 8.1 (33.1) (8.0) (41.1)
The Flybe UK segment includes group costs of £3.6m (2012/13: £3.6m) and revaluation gains on USD aircraft 
loans of £8.3m (2012/13: losses of £4.7m).
Flybe Finland’s result includes both the appropriate share of the Flybe Finland joint venture result and other costs 
of running this business.
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocation of resources between segments, the 
Operating Board monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment. All assets 
are allocated to reportable segments with the exception of revalued open fuel and foreign exchange derivatives, 
and tax assets and liabilities. Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenue 
earned by individual reportable segments.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 104 2014 
£m
2013 
(restated) 
£m
Segment assets:
Flybe UK 508.6 361.2
Flybe Finland 13.4 13.8
MRO 19.5 20.4
Total segment assets 541.5 395.4
Unallocated assets 6.5 10.4
Consolidated total assets 548.0 405.8
Segment liabilities:
Flybe UK (329.6) (334.5)
Flybe Finland (0.9) (0.9)
MRO (7.9) (15.7)
Total segment liabilities (338.4) (351.1)
Unallocated liabilities (15.5) (6.6)
Consolidated total liabilities (353.9) (357.7)
Other segment information
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
£m
Depreciation and amortisation:
Flybe UK 13.9 13.1
MRO 0.4 0.4
14.3 13.5
Investment income:
Flybe UK 0.3 0.4
Flybe Finland 0.4 0.3
0.7 0.7
Additions to non-current assets:
Flybe UK 20.7 43.4
MRO 0.5 –
21.2 43.4
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers by geographical location is detailed below:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Revenue under management from external customers:
United Kingdom 537.0 528.5
Europe excluding United Kingdom 318.1 237.8
Rest of world 13.3 15.2
Total revenue under management 868.4 781.5
Less: Joint venture revenue (all categorised as Europe excluding United Kingdom) (247.9) (167.2)
Group revenue 620.5 614.3
No non-current assets were based outside of the United Kingdom for any of the periods presented other than 
joint venture assets.
Information about major customers
None of the Group’s customers exceeded 10% of its Group revenue.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
6. Operating profit
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
This has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13.5 12.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.8 0.9
(Profit)/loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.2) 1.4
Profit on sale of intangibles (10.5) –
Profit on sale of assets held for sale at prior year end (0.4) –
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 11.7 15.6
Reversal of write-downs of inventories recognised in the year (0.7) –
Write-down of inventories as a result of restructuring – 0.2
Operating leases:
 Land and buildings 2.7 4.1
 Plant and machinery 1.9 1.9
 Aircraft 83.6 78.1
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (0.2) 1.9
Auditor’s remuneration
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit  
of the Company’s annual financial statements – –
Audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2
Total audit fees 0.2 0.2
Tax compliance and advisory services 0.2 0.1
Corporate finance services 0.4 –
Total audit and non-audit fees 0.8 0.3
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be 
disclosed because the financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. Details  
of the Group’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather 
than another supplier and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the 
Audit Committee Report on page 62. No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
7. Restructuring
2014 2013 (restated)
1
Flybe UK
2
£m
Flybe UK
£m
MRO
£m
Total
£m
Redundancy costs 9.6 2.8 2.8 5.6
Staff costs 9.6 2.8 2.8 5.6
 Legal, professional and support costs 1.1 1.2 – 1.2
 Property and other exit costs – 0.1 1.1 1.2
Other operating expenses 1.1 1.3 1.1 2.4
Total restructuring costs 10.7 4.1 3.9 8.0
Profit on slot sales (note 14) (10.5) – – –
Net restructuring costs 0.2 4.1 3.9 8.0
1
 Restated figures for Flybe UK and MRO due to change in business segments – see note 5.
2
 All 2014 net restructuring costs relate to Flybe UK.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 106 8. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
2014 
No.
2013
No.
Flight and maintenance 1,250 1,418
Technical support services 564 724
Administration 371 525
2,185 2,667
The Group’s aggregate payroll costs in respect of those persons were as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 79.4 103.0
Social security costs 9.0 11.0
Other pension costs (see note 35) 6.6 7.1
Share-based payments (see note 34) 1.5 0.6
Amounts payable to temporary staff 1.5 2.3
98.0 124.0
Redundancy costs (see note 7) 9.6 5.6
107.6 129.6
In addition to the above, an actuarial loss of £0.3m (2013: actuarial loss of £0.2m) was recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of defined benefit pension schemes.
9. Investment income
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
1
£m
Interest on bank deposits 0.6 0.6
Net interest income on defined benefit costs (see note 35) 0.1 0.1
0.7 0.7
1
  IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a new interest charge - see note 2 for further 
detail. These changes have been applied retrospectively in the comparative disclosure for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
10. Finance costs
2014
£m
2013
£m
Interest expense on bank loans 1.7 2.5 
11. Other gains and losses
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
1
£m
Gains/(losses) arising on retranslation of foreign currency loans and deposits 8.3 (4.7)
1
  IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a new interest charge – see note 2 for further 
detail. These changes have been applied retrospectively in the comparative disclosure for the year ended 31 March 2013.
12. Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
1
£m
Deferred tax
Origination of temporary differences 3.7 1.2
Reversal of tax losses recognised (3.6) (0.1)
Total tax charge for the year 0.1 1.1
The Group did not incur or pay any current tax in this or the prior year.
The difference between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate  
of United Kingdom corporation tax to the profit/(loss) before tax is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
1
£m
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax
1
8.1 (41.1)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax at 23% (2013: 24%) 1.7 (9.6)
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
Items outside the scope of UK taxation 0.1 0.1
Effect of change in corporation tax rate (0.3) (0.2)
Effect of tax losses 3.5 (0.6)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation)/depreciation in excess of capital allowances (4.9) 11.4
Total tax charge for the year 0.1 1.1
1
  IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a new interest charge - see note 2 for further 
detail. These changes have been applied retrospectively in the comparative disclosure for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The main rate of corporation tax reduces from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and therefore 21% has been used  
to calculate the position on deferred tax at 31 March 2014 (2013: 23%). The further phased reduction discussed  
in the Budget on 19 March 2014, reducing the corporation tax rate to 20% from 1 April 2015, has not yet been 
enacted. The Directors are not aware of any other factors that will materially affect the future tax charge.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 108 13. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic, diluted, adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share is based  
on the following data:
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
1
£m
Earnings
Earnings/(loss) for the purposes of unadjusted earnings per share,  
being net profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the Group 8.0 (42.2)
Add back:
Net restructuring costs 0.2 8.0
Revaluation (gain)/loss on USD aircraft loans (8.3) 4.7
Loss for the purposes of adjusted earnings per share (0.1) (29.5)
1
  IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a new interest charge – see note 2 for further 
detail. These changes have been applied retrospectively in the comparative disclosure for the year ended 31 March 2013.
2014
No.
2013
(restated)
No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes  
of basic and diluted earnings per share 82,906,411 75,152,881
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share – basic and diluted 9.6p (56.0)p
Adjusted loss per share – basic and diluted (0.2)p (39.1)p
Diluted earnings per share is the same as basic earnings per share in the year ended 31 March 2014 because  
none of the shares that could, potentially, be issued are dilutive. Diluted earnings per share is the same as basic 
earnings per share in the year ended 31 March 2013 because the Group recorded a loss and as such none  
of the shares that could, potentially, be issued are dilutive.
The weighted average number of shares reflects the impact of the issue of 141,501,920 ordinary shares  
on 12 March 2014 as explained further in note 28.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
14. Intangible fixed assets
Landing 
rights
£m
Computer
 software
£m
Computer
 software in 
the course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2012 8.5 8.9 – 17.4
Additions – 1.1 2.9 4.0
At 31 March 2013 8.5 10.0 2.9 21.4
Additions – 0.6 0.7 1.3
Disposals (8.5) – – (8.5)
At 31 March 2014 – 10.6 3.6 14.2
Amortisation
At 1 April 2012 – 7.3 – 7.3
Amortisation for the year – 0.9 – 0.9
At 31 March 2013 – 8.2 – 8.2
Amortisation for the year – 0.8 – 0.8
At 31 March 2014 – 9.0 – 9.0
Net book value
At 1 April 2012 8.5 1.6 – 10.1
At 31 March 2013 8.5 1.8 2.9 13.2
At 31 March 2014 – 1.6 3.6 5.2
On 22 May 2013, the Group entered into an agreement with the easyJet Airline Company Limited to dispose of its 
takeoff and landing rights (‘slots’) at London Gatwick for a gross cash consideration of £20.0m. After expenses 
of £1.5m, the profit on disposal was £10.5m.
 
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 110 15. Property, plant and equipment
Land
and 
buildings
£m
Plant,
 equipment 
and motor
 vehicles
£m
Aircraft
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2012 24.5 15.7 206.6 246.8
Additions 0.1 3.0 36.3 39.4
Reclassified as held for sale – – (24.0) (24.0)
Disposals – (1.7) (26.0) (27.7)
At 31 March 2013 24.6 17.0 192.9 234.5
Additions 0.1 0.5 19.3 19.9
Disposals (0.1) (0.1) (2.7) (2.9)
At 31 March 2014 24.6 17.4 209.5 251.5
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2012 4.3 10.7 69.7 84.7
Depreciation charge for the year 0.5 1.6 10.5 12.6
On assets reclassified as held for sale – – (12.4) (12.4)
Disposals – (0.5) (15.3) (15.8)
At 31 March 2013 4.8 11.8 52.5 69.1
Depreciation charge for the year 0.5 1.4 11.6 13.5
Disposals – (0.1) (1.6) (1.7)
At 31 March 2014 5.3 13.1 62.5 80.9
Net book value
At 1 April 2012 20.2 5.0 136.9 162.1
At 31 March 2013 19.8 5.2 140.4 165.4
At 31 March 2014 19.3 4.3 147.0 170.6
Depreciation costs of £0.6m (2013: £1.5m) associated with the aircraft maintenance assets are included in the 
maintenance cost line in the consolidated income statement.
An impairment review was performed at the balance sheet date to determine whether these assets were 
impaired. Separate cash-generating units are established for Flybe UK and MRO. No impairment review was 
required for the MRO. For Flybe UK, the recoverable amount was calculated using a value in use model and 
determined to be higher than the assets recoverable amount by £28.6m and no impairment was required.  
The key assumption in the review of the Flybe UK was the weighted average cost of capital used of 9.5%.  
Only when the weighted average cost of capital is increased to 12.0% does the recoverable amount equal  
its carrying amount.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
16. Joint ventures
2014
£m
2013
£m
Investment in joint ventures 12.4 13.2 
Details of the joint venture that the Group accounts for using the equity method are set out below:
Equity
owned
%
Principal 
activities Holding
Country of
 incorporation 
and principal 
operations
Flybe Finland Oy 60.0
Airline
 operations
Ordinary
 shares Finland
The following summarised financial information (under IFRS) shows the assets and liabilities and revenue and 
results for Flybe Finland: 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Summarised financial information:
Non-current assets 9.9 11.5
Current assets 21.8 26.2
Current liabilities (36.5) (40.0)
Non-current liabilities (6.0) (6.1)
Net liabilities (10.8) (8.4)
Revenue 247.9 167.2
Net loss after tax (0.8) (4.9)
Other information:
Cash and cash equivalents included in current assets 8.3 5.4
Depreciation and amortisation (0.7) (0.7)
Interest expense (0.1) (0.1)
Income tax credit 0.2 1.6
Reconciliation of movement in the joint venture carrying amount:
Share of net assets brought forward 13.2 16.2
Share of net loss after tax and foreign exchange on translation (0.8) (3.0)
Carrying amount 12.4 13.2
See note 31 for details of the arrangements supporting the €3.0m overdraft guarantee provided by the Group  
to Flybe Finland Oy.
The entities are not listed thus no quoted market price is available. No dividends have been received from  
joint ventures.
Included within the carrying amount of the joint venture is £18.0m of goodwill.
An impairment review was performed at the balance sheet date to determine whether the investment in joint 
ventures was impaired. The recoverable amount was calculated using a value in use model and determined to be 
higher than the assets recoverable amount by £6.7m and no impairment was required. The key assumption used 
in the review was the weighted average cost of capital of 9.5%. Only when the weighted average cost of capital 
is increased to 20.8% does the recoverable amount equal its carrying amount.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 112 17. Other non-current assets
2014
£m
2013
£m
Aircraft deposits 3.1 1.8
Aircraft security deposits 6.9 8.1
Aircraft operating lease prepayments 6.5 9.0
Other non-current assets 25.8 23.6
42.3 42.5
18. Inventories
2014
£m
2013
£m
Goods for resale – 0.8
Aircraft consumables 6.8 6.0
6.8 6.8
19. Trade and other receivables
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts receivable 27.1 35.9
Allowance for doubtful debts – (0.1)
Trade receivables, net 27.1 35.8
Amounts recoverable on contracts 1.3 1.8
Other receivables 39.1 22.1
Aircraft deposits – 11.8
Prepayments 18.3 16.3
85.8 87.8
Trade receivables disclosed above are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured  
at amortised cost.
Trade receivables include amounts (see below for aged analysis) which are past due at the reporting date but 
against which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful receivables because there has not been  
a significant change in credit quality and the amounts continue to be considered recoverable.
The allowance for doubtful debts arises from trade customers in liquidation or with significantly overdue debts. 
No impairment was recognised in the year to 31 March 2014 (2013: nil).
Ageing of trade receivables that are not provided for:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Not yet due 21.6 28.6
30 to 60 days overdue 2.9 2.2
60 to 90 days overdue 2.2 2.1
90+ days overdue 0.4 2.9
27.1 35.8
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
20. Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 177.9 23.3
Current restricted cash 33.9 24.2
Non current restricted cash 6.6 7.2
218.4 54.7
Restricted cash comprises:
Aircraft operating lease deposits 6.6 7.2
Aircraft maintenance deposits 2.6 1.5
Other (see note 31) 31.3 22.7
40.5 31.4
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three  
months or less. The carrying amount of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is approximately equal  
to their fair value.
21. Assets held for sale
At 31 March 2013, it was determined that two Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft with a carrying value of 
£11.9m would be recovered through a sales transaction and thus reclassified to assets held for sale. In May 2013, 
the identified aircraft were sold for cash consideration of £12.3m and the associated loans repaid. There were no 
assets held for sale at 31 March 2014.
22. Trade and other payables
2014
 £m
2013 
£m
Trade payables 23.6 19.3
Accrued expenses 24.4 36.9
Other payables 34.0 41.7
82.0 97.9
The carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value. The Group manages credit terms with  
its suppliers in a way to ensure payments are made to them on commercially acceptable terms. 
23. Deferred income
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current 70.7 63.2
Non-current 9.5 10.8
80.2 74.0
Deferred income includes government grants totalling £6.7m (2013: £6.8m) for capital financial support towards 
the capital costs of the Flybe Training Academy building, a national training centre for the airline industry. Of this, 
£0.1m will be released within one year and £6.6m will be released after more than one year.
Government grants were provided by the South West of England Regional Development Agency and the 
Learning Skills Council (and its successor). These institutions may be entitled to clawback all or part of the grant 
up to 31 December 2020 if the Group ceases to operate the building as a training centre providing education and 
training to internal and external delegates.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 114 24. Borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings. 
For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, as well as the 
repayment profiles, see note 36.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Secured bank loans
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 10.4 18.7
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 91.1 102.3
101.5 121.0
Borrowing costs amounting to £8.4m (2013: £9.1m) were capitalised in relation to qualifying assets.
Terms
2014 2013
Interest rate
%
Amount
£m
Interest rate
%
Amount
£m
Floating rate sterling loans 3.2 9.2 2.7 17.7
Floating rate US dollar loans 2.2 87.5 1.4 97.9
Fixed rate sterling loans 3.1 4.2 3.2 4.6
Fixed rate US dollar loans 5.4 0.6 5.4 0.8
101.5 121.0
The interest rate above relates to the weighted average for the year or period. Floating rates are based upon 
LIBOR with margins of between 1.1% and 3.8%. The loans are repayable over a period to 31 March 2029. All loans 
are secured on specific aircraft assets or land and buildings. All of the covenants tested have been satisfied since 
inception of the agreements.
At 31 March 2014, the Group had £4.3m of unused borrowing facilities in the form of guarantees (2013: £2.7m).
25. Derivative financial instruments
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts/options – 5.3
Fuel contracts/options 0.4 0.4
Derivative instruments that are designated and effective as hedging instruments  
carried at fair value 0.4 5.7
Total derivative financial assets held as current assets 0.4 5.7
Current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts/options (7.5) (0.2)
Fuel contracts/options (0.5) (1.3)
Derivative instruments that are designated and effective as hedging instruments  
carried at fair value (8.0) (1.5)
Total derivative financial assets held as current liabilities (8.0) (1.5)
Net derivative financial (liabilities)/assets (7.6) 4.2
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in note 36.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
26. Deferred tax
The following movements in the major deferred tax liabilities and (assets) were recorded by the Group  
during the current and prior reporting period.
Property, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Employee
 benefits
£m
Financial 
instruments
£m
Tax losses
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2012 (4.9) 1.0 – 1.1 (0.3) (3.1)
Recognised in the income statement 4.4 – – (0.1) (3.1) 1.2
Effect of rate change (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
At 31 March 2013 (0.6) 1.0 – 1.0 (3.4) (2.0)
Recognised in the income statement (1.7) (1.1) (0.1) (0.5) 3.8 (0.4)
Recognised in other comprehensive income – – (0.5) (2.2) – (2.7)
Effect of rate change – 0.1 – 0.1 (0.4) (0.2)
At 31 March 2014 (2.3) – (0.6) (1.6) – (4.5)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Property, plant and equipment 3.9 1.2 (1.6) (0.6)
Intangible assets – – – (1.0)
Employee benefits 0.6 – – –
Financial instruments 1.6 – – (1.0)
Tax value of loss carried forward – 3.4 – –
Tax assets/(liabilities) 6.1 4.6 (1.6) (2.6)
Where carried forward losses or unclaimed capital allowances are available, they are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group recognised deferred tax assets primarily on previously unrecognised 
losses or unutilised capital allowances. The recognition of an asset, as well as the composition of that asset,  
was a result of management’s judgement that it was probable that it would realise such deferred tax assets  
in future periods, when taking into consideration the availability of feasible tax planning strategies and  
estimates of future taxable income in which these operating losses and other tax attributes exist.
The Group has significant deferred assets due to the accumulation of accelerated capital allowances in prior 
periods. The realisation of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable 
income in the future. The Directors have exercised judgement in determining the extent of the realisation  
of these losses based upon estimates of future taxable income. Where there is an expectation that on the  
balance of probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilise these assets, they have not been 
recognised. If actual events differ from the Directors’ estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are  
adjusted in the future, any recognition in the future of previously generated assets would have a material  
impact on the Group’s effective tax rates. 
The Group has fully recognised the deferred tax asset in relation to capital allowances at 31 March 2014  
(2013: £6.0m unrecognised).
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these items as it is not considered probable that there 
will be future taxable profits available. These unutilised deferred tax assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
During the period the Group has reflected the change in the enacted tax rate from 23% to 21%, which  
is effective from 1 April 2014. 20% was enacted on 2 July 2013 from 1 April 2015. The future 1% main tax rate 
reductions are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 116 27. Provisions
2014
£m
2013
£m
Leased aircraft maintenance 72.7 54.1
Restructuring 4.5 6.6
77.2 60.7
Current 45.3 26.9
Non-current 31.9 33.8
77.2 60.7
The Group’s provisions are as follows:
Leased 
aircraft 
maintenance 
£m
Restructuring 
(note 7) 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 April 2013 54.1 6.6 60.7
Additional provision in the year 40.4 10.7 51.1
Utilisation of provision (21.8) (12.8) (34.6)
At 31 March 2014 72.7 4.5 77.2
Aircraft maintenance provisions are made in respect of contractual obligations to maintain aircraft under 
operating lease contracts. The amount and timing of the maintenance costs are dependent on future usage  
of the relevant aircraft. Typically this will be utilised within two years. The additional provision in the year  
is included within maintenance charges shown in the consolidated income statement.
On 23 January 2013 and 23 May 2013, the Group announced Phases 1 and 2 of its Turnaround Plan to return  
the Group to profitability. An Immediate Action plan was also announced on 11 November 2013. A specific 
restructuring provision is therefore in place for direct restructuring expenditure and not associated with  
the ongoing activities of the Group. This provision is expected to be utilised in the current financial year.
28. Share capital
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Issued and fully paid
216,654,801 ordinary shares of 1p each (2013: 75,152,881) 2,167 752
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
On 12 March 2014, 141,501,920 ordinary shares of 1 pence each were issued for gross cash consideration  
of £155.7m in a firm placing and placing and open offer of these additional shares.
29. Share premium
£m
Balance at 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 60.6
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 154.2
Expenses on issue of equity shares (5.6)
Balance at 31 March 2014 209.2
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
30. Retained deficit
£m
Balance at 1 April 2012 (4.6)
Net loss for the year (42.2)
Other comprehensive income arising from measurement of defined benefit obligation
1
0.2
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 0.6
Balance at 31 March 2013 (46.0)
Net profit for the year 8.0
Other comprehensive loss arising from measurement of defined benefit obligation  
net of deferred tax
1
(1.7)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 0.6
Balance at 31 March 2014 (39.1)
1
  IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a new interest charge – see note 2 for further 
detail. These changes have been applied retrospectively in the comparative disclosure for the year ended 31 March 2013.
31. Contingencies
The Group has entered into arrangements to guarantee the Group’s credit card arrangements and has placed 
bonds in favour of various aircraft lessors, handling agents, fuel suppliers and customs offices as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Credit card arrangements 24.0 14.0
Bonds 7.2 8.7
Total 31.2 22.7
Cash deposited to secure the above arrangements as other restricted cash (note 20) 31.2 22.7
Since 31 March 2014, there has been a net reduction of £10.6m in restricted cash, comprising the full release of 
£7.0m of collateral on bonds and a net reduction of £4.0m in amounts required to secure card acquiring facilities.
Flybe Group plc and Finnair Oyj entered into a guarantee to secure the overdraft obligations of Flybe Finland Oy 
to Nordea Bank Finland Plc in February 2012. Flybe Group plc has entered into an undertaking to provide a general 
guarantee limited in value to 60.0% of the aggregate liability of Flybe Finland Oy to a maximum amount of €3m.
32. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Property and equipment Aircraft
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Less than one year 0.9 2.9 80.1 85.1
Between one and two years 0.6 1.1 73.2 78.1
Between two and five years 1.7 2.5 172.7 196.1
More than five years 9.4 9.9 77.1 108.6
12.6 16.4 403.1 467.9
The majority of aircraft operating leases are denominated in US Dollars.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 118 33. Capital commitments
The Group has, over time, contractually committed to the acquisition of aircraft with a total list price before 
escalations and discounts as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Embraer E-Series aircraft 534.9 636.2 
It is intended that these aircraft will be financed partly though cash flow and partly through external financing 
and leasing arrangements. 24 aircraft were covered by these arrangements at 31 March 2014 (2013: 26).  
An agreement was reached with Embraer in May 2013 to defer 16 new E175 aircraft due for delivery in 2014 and 
2015. These aircraft will now not be delivered until 2017 to 2019. The next aircraft is contracted to be delivered  
in October 2017.
34. Share-based payments
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The Flybe LTIP 2013
All employees of the Group may be granted Flybe LTIP 2013 Awards (‘LTIP Award’). No Directors of the Company 
may be granted an LTIP Award under this scheme.
Awards granted take the form of a conditional right to receive a cash amount, the value of which is calculated  
by reference to the number of ordinary shares which are notionally subject to an LTIP Award multiplied by the 
increase in the market value of an ordinary share between the date of grant (unless determined otherwise by the 
remuneration committee) and the market value of an ordinary share on the third anniversary of grant. Market 
value on a particular date will be calculated by reference to an average of the closing price of an ordinary share 
for the three months prior to such date. The closing price at the third anniversary of the grant date in respect of 
an LTIP Award may not exceed 400 per cent. of the opening price and therefore will be capped at the amount 
equal to 400 per cent. of the opening price.
The vesting of LTIP Awards granted will be conditional upon the achievement of an objective performance target 
set at the time of grant. It is intended that the performance target will be that the closing price in respect of an 
LTIP Award at the first vesting date must exceed a pre-determined level.
2014
Number
of share
awards
Weighted
 average
 exercise
price
(£)
Granted and outstanding at the end of the year 2,751,951 –
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
On 21 November 2013, 2,751,951 shares were awarded. Fair value of the award at 31 March 2014 has been 
calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model. The inputs into the valuation are as follows:
2014
Exercise price 78.5p
Share price at 31 March 2014 (the measurement date) 131.5p
Risk-free rate of interest 0.97%
Flybe volatility 45%
Dividend yield nil 
As participation is limited to a small population, no forfeiture risk has been assumed in the valuation.
The charge for the year in relation to this scheme was £0.1m. The Group has recorded liabilities of £0.1m  
at 31 March 2014.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
34. Share-based payments continued
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) continued
The Saad Hammad LTIP (‘SH Plan’)
Mr. Hammad is the sole participant under the SH Plan, which is specifically designed in order to incentivise him  
to grow the market capitalisation of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the 
date that he joined the Company.
The award made under the terms of the SH Plan entitles Mr. Hammad to receive a cash payment depending  
upon the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied, over a three-year performance  
period commencing on the date that he joined the Company. The performance condition is that the market 
capitalisation of the Company at the end of the performance period must be greater than the market 
capitalisation of the Company at the start of the performance period. If this condition is not satisfied,  
no payment will be made. See the Directors’ Remuneration Report pages 78 and 79 for further details.
The LTIP award was granted on 1 August 2013. Fair value of the award at 31 March 2014 has been calculated  
using a Monte Carlo valuation model. The inputs into the valuation are as follows:
2014
Starting market capitalisation £39.5m
Starting issued share capital 75.2m
Issued share capital at 31 March 2014 (the measurement date) 216.7m
Share price at 31 March 2014 (the measurement date) 131.5p
Aggregate price paid for new shares £155.7m
Risk-free rate of interest 0.85%
Flybe volatility 45%
Dividend yield nil
As participation is limited to one individual, no forfeiture risk has been assumed in the valuation.
The charge for the year in relation to this scheme was £0.8m. The Group has recorded liabilities of £0.8m  
at 31 March 2014.
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
The Company has a share award scheme under which all employees of the Group may be granted awards. 
Awards are exercisable at nil consideration. The vesting period is three years and awards are forfeited if the 
employee leaves the Group before the awards vest. 
The vesting of these awards is subject to the performance of Flybe over a three-year period. 70% of the award  
is subject to a target based on the Company’s earnings per share (‘EPS’) at the end of the performance period 
and 30% of the award will be subject to Flybe’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) relative to a comparator group.  
The comparator group comprises a number of European airlines and other regional transport companies,  
as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 78.
2014 2013
Number
of share
awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
(£)
Number
of share
awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
(£)
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,733,320 – 2,733,320 –
Expired during the year (929,595) – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,803,725 – 2,733,320 –
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 120 January 2011 award
On 21 January 2011, 937,146 shares were awarded. The share price on the date of the award was £3.25.  
7,551 share options were forfeited in the year ended 31 March 2012. No share options have been forfeited  
in this or the preceding financial year. The share award was available for exercise on 21 January 2014.  
However based on performance over the period to 31 March 2014, these awards did not vest and the  
929,595 awards expired.
The likelihood of awards being made under the January 2011 issue under the PSP was re-assessed during  
the year ended 31 March 2012 and it was determined that the EPS element (70% of the total award) was  
no longer expected to vest. The market conditions have not changed and therefore the charge for the  
TSR element of this award for the year was £0.1m (2013: £0.2m).
August 2011 award
On 5 August 2011, a further 1,803,725 shares were awarded. The share price at the date of the award was £1.62. 
No shares were forfeited or exercised during this year or the preceding financial year. The options outstanding  
at 31 March 2014 had a weighted average exercise price of £nil and will be available for exercise on 5 August 2014. 
Based on performance over the period to 31 March 2014, these awards will not vest and will lapse in full.
Again it was determined that the EPS element (70% of the total award) of the August 2011 issue would not  
be likely to vest and therefore only the TSR element would be charged to the income statement. The market 
conditions have not changed and therefore the charge for the TSR element of this award for the year  
was £0.1m (2013: less than £0.1m).
Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’)
The SIP was open to all UK employees with at least 12 months service as at 15 December 2010. The 100 ‘free’ 
shares were allocated to all eligible employees and are held in the SIP trust for a period of three years. If during 
the three-year holding period an individual ceases to be an employee or otherwise attempts to withdraw their 
‘free’ shares from the SIP, the shares shall be forfeited.
On 24 January 2012, 280,000 ordinary shares were issued by the Company for this purpose. The calculation  
of the charge is based on the market value at the date of allocation of £3.25 and under the assumption that  
75% of shares issued will be redeemed in three years.
The charge for the year in relation to this scheme was £0.2m (2013: £0.2m). The charge in relation to this scheme 
ceased in December 2013.
Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’)
The Flybe Sharesave SAYE scheme was offered to all employees with a length of service more than 12 months at 
30 June 2011 and provides for an employee to be granted an option when entering into a savings contract (‘SAYE 
Contract’). The eligible employees are able to save a regular sum each month for a three-year period of not less 
than £5 and not more than £30. An option to acquire ordinary shares will be granted to each eligible employee 
who entered into the SAYE Contract. On 5 August 2011, 998,362 of options over ordinary shares were issued  
by the Company for this purpose.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 732,716 998,362
Forfeited during the year (15,537) (15,010)
Cancelled during the year (137,011) (250,636)
Expired (109,887) –
Outstanding at the end of the year 470,281 732,716
The Group recognised expenses of £0.2m in relation to this award in the year to 31 March 2014 (2013: £0.2m).
Summary
The Group recognised total expenses of £1.5m in relation to share-based payments in the year ended 31 March 2014 
(2013: £0.6m). The Group has recorded total liabilities in respect of the LTIP schemes of £0.9m at 31 March 2014.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
35. Employee benefits
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates defined contribution retirement schemes for all qualifying employees in the United Kingdom. 
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
The total cost charged to income of £6.6m (2013: £7.1m) represents contributions payable to these schemes  
by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Defined benefit scheme
The defined benefit scheme operated by the Group was acquired on 5 March 2007 as part of the acquisition  
of BA Connect. The scheme was closed to contributions during that year and its members now contribute to the 
Group’s defined contribution scheme. The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme 
during the current financial year is £0.5m. No asset was recognised at 31 March 2013 in respect of the net surplus 
because the Group did not have sufficient certainty that any asset will eventually be realised. At 31 March 2014, 
the net deficit has been recognised in the balance sheet.
The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation  
was carried out at 31 March 2010. An actuarial valuation at 31 March 2013 is currently underway, but is not yet 
complete. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and past service 
cost were measured using the projected unit credit method.
The Group has adopted IAS 19 (revised 2011) and the related consequential amendments have impacted  
the accounting for the Group’s defined benefit scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return  
on plan assets with a new interest charge. These changes have been applied retrospectively to the  
comparative disclosure.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuation were as follows:
Valuation at
2014
%
2013
%
Key assumptions used:
Discount rate 4.6 4.6
Expected rate of salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.6/2.4 3.6/2.4
RPI inflation 3.4 3.4
The post-retirement mortality rate assumed at 31 March 2014 was based on the Small Area Population Statistics 
(‘SAPS’) tables with a minus one year age rating and the Continuous Mortality Investigation (‘CMI’) 2009  
1% long-term rate projections (2013: the mortality rate was also based on SAPS).
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption
2014
£m
2013
£m
Discount rate Increase by 0.1% (2.9) (2.5)
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% 2.0 1.9
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined retirement 
benefit scheme is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (132.3) (129.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 129.8 130.8
Net (deficit)/surplus (2.5) 1.5
Impact of asset ceiling
1
– (1.5)
Recognised net liability from defined benefit obligation (2.5) –
1 
Due to the limit set out in paragraph 64 of IAS 19.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 122 Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
£m
Administration costs 0.4 0.3
Net interest receivable (see note 9) (0.1) (0.1)
Charge to profit or loss before tax 0.3 0.2
Remeasurements recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
(restated)
£m
Return on scheme assets in excess of interest (1.5) 8.2
Experience losses on liabilities (2.2) –
Losses arising from changes in financial assumptions – (7.8)
Change in effect of asset ceiling
1
4.0 (0.2)
Total remeasurements 0.3 (0.2)
1
 Due to the limit set out in paragraph 64 of IAS 19.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation 129.3 119.6
Interest cost 5.8 5.8
Benefits paid (5.0) (3.9)
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions – 7.8
Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments 2.2 –
Closing defined benefit obligation 132.3 129.3
Movements in fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 130.8 120.9
Interest income 5.9 5.9
Benefits paid (5.0) (3.9)
Administration costs (0.4) (0.3)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on scheme assets (1.5) 8.2
Closing fair value of scheme assets 129.8 130.8
The analysis of the scheme assets and the return on those assets at the balance sheet date were as follows:
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Fair value of assets
Equities 58.4 50.5
Bonds and gilts 71.3 80.0
Cash 0.1 0.3
129.8 130.8
Actual return on scheme assets 4.5% 4.5%
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
36. Financial instruments
Significant accounting policies
Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis  
for measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class  
of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
Categories of financial instruments
2014 2013
Carrying
 value
£m
Fair 
value
£m
Carrying 
value
£m
Fair
value
£m
Financial assets
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 218.4 218.4 54.7 54.7
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables 98.9 98.9 90.2 90.2
Derivative instruments in designated hedge  
accounting relationships 0.4 0.4 5.7 5.7
Financial liabilities
Liabilities held at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables (36.8) (36.8) (35.7) (35.7)
Debt (101.5) (103.9) (121.0) (126.8)
Derivative instruments in designated hedge  
accounting relationships (8.0) (8.0) (1.5) (1.5)
Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
> > The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded  
on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
> > The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined 
with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable 
current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
> > The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, 
a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments 
for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives. Foreign currency forward 
contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest 
rates matching maturities of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash 
flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
 
Financial instruments recorded at fair value at 31 March 2014
Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into Levels 1  
to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
> > Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities;
> > Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within  
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived  
from prices); and
> > Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset  
or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 124 The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s financial instruments, all of which are grouped into Level 2:
2014
£m 
2013
£m 
Foreign exchange derivatives (7.5) 5.1
Fuel derivatives (0.1) (0.9)
At 31 March (7.6) 4.2
Financial risk management objectives
The Group is exposed to financial risks in respect of:
> > liquidity and management of working capital
> > foreign currency
> > interest rates
> > credit risk
> > commodities.
A description of each risk, together with the policy for managing risk is given below. To manage these risks,  
the Group uses various derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts and 
commodity contracts. These derivative financial instruments are generally held to maturity and are not actively 
traded. The Group enters into these arrangements with the goal of hedging its operational and balance sheet, 
income statements and cash flow risk. However, the Group’s exposure to commodity price and currency 
exchange fluctuations cannot be neutralised completely.
Liquidity and working capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital 
structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings (see note 24), cash and cash equivalents 
(see note 20) and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and 
retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and notes 28 to 30.
 
Gearing ratio
The Group’s board reviews the capital structure on a regular basis. As part of this review, the board considered 
the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The gearing ratio at the year-end  
is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Debt (101.5) (121.0)
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 218.4 54.7
Net cash/(debt) 116.9 (66.3)
Equity 194.1 48.1
Net debt to equity ratio (60.2)% 137.8%
Debt is defined as long-term and short-term borrowings as detailed in note 24. Equity includes all capital and 
reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
36. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk management
The Directors believe that the Group has adequate cash holdings to meet its short-term creditors as they fall due. 
The Group also arranges to borrow funds in order to finance purchase of aircraft and engines. The following 
table, which does not take into account the discounting of cash flows and includes forecast interest payments, 
shows the contractual maturity of the Group’s non-derivative financial instruments:
Weighted 
average
 effective
 interest rate
%
Within 
1 year
£m
1-2 years 
£m
2-5 years 
£m
Over 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
2014
Financial assets:
  Cash, cash equivalents and  
 restricted cash (variable interest rates) 0.1 211.8 – 0.7 5.9 218.4
 Loans and receivables – 66.2 25.8 – 6.9 98.9
Financial liabilities:
 Trade and other payables – (36.8) – – – (36.8)
 Borrowings:
  Variable interest rates 2.3 (8.4) (11.4) (25.0) (54.1) (98.9)
  Fixed interest rates 3.4 (2.0) (1.8) (1.2) – (5.0)
2013
Financial assets:
  Cash, cash equivalents and  
 restricted cash (variable interest rates) 0.1 46.8 1.4 1.0 5.5 54.7
 Loans and receivables – 58.5 23.6 – 8.1 90.2
Financial liabilities:
 Trade and other payables – (35.7) – – – (35.7)
 Borrowings:
  Variable interest rates 1.6 (18.0) (10.6) (38.8) (53.6) (121.0)
  Fixed interest rates 3.5 (1.5) (1.5) (2.7) (0.1) (5.8)
All financial assets and financial liabilities are non-interest bearing unless otherwise stated.
The following table, which is based on market pricing in place at the end of each reporting period, shows  
the maturity of the Group’s derivative financial instruments:
Within
1 year
£m
2014
Net settled derivatives:
 Fuel derivatives (0.1)
Gross settled derivatives:
 Foreign currency payments (7.5)
(7.6)
2013
Net settled derivatives:
 Fuel derivatives (0.9)
Gross settled derivatives:
 Foreign currency payments 5.1
4.2
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 126 Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the leasing and purchase 
of aircraft, spare parts and fuel in US dollars. Hence, significant exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise to 
US dollars. In addition, certain sales and airport costs are incurred in Euros. 
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved parameters by entering into a series of foreign exchange 
forward contracts. These contracts are used in conjunction with fuel derivatives to mitigate fuel procurement 
price risk. In addition, foreign exchange forward contracts are matched to planned purchases of aircraft, spare 
parts and lease costs. It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover 
specific US dollar payments to cover up to 90% of the exposure generated.
The Group does not enter into significant Euro foreign exchange forward contracts as the Euro payment 
exposure is largely, though not entirely, offset by Euro revenue receipts. There were no Euro contracts  
at 31 March 2014 or 31 March 2013.
All Group companies mainly use US dollars foreign exchange derivative instruments. The following table 
summarises the Group’s derivative financial instruments that are used to mitigate the exposures described above:
Average
 exchange 
rate
$m
Foreign
 currency
£m
Contract
value
£m
Fair value 
of asset/
 (liability)
£m
At 31 March 2014 $1.5801 233.1 147.5 (7.5)
At 31 March 2013 $1.5702 233.2 148.5 5.1
It is estimated that a general strengthening/weakening of Sterling against the US Dollar and the Euro would 
improve/(worsen) both the Group’s result before tax and increase its equity by approximately:
2014 2013
Percentage increase 1% 1%
US Dollar (£m) 0.5 0.4
Euro (£m) 0.1 0.1
In addition to the above, Flybe will continue to be exposed to significant non-cash revaluation gains/(losses) on 
its US Dollar denominated aircraft loans, which will be adjusted in arriving at the Group’s underlying results.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
36. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency risk management continued
The carrying value of the Group’s foreign currency denominated non-derivative monetary assets and liabilities  
at the balance sheet date is as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets
Euro:
 Cash and cash equivalents 6.1 5.0
 Restricted cash 0.9 1.0
 Trade receivables 4.3 3.1
US Dollar:
 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 1.2
 Restricted cash 12.9 15.3
 Trade receivables 1.4 1.6
26.4 27.2
Liabilities
Euro:
 Trade and other payables (3.2) (1.0)
US Dollar:
 Trade and other payables (10.2) (15.5)
 Debt (88.1) (98.7)
(101.5) (115.2)
Cash flow hedge effectiveness
The Group designates certain hedges of foreign exchange and fuel price risks on firm commitments as cash flow 
hedges. At 31 March 2014, the Group has identified 86 (2013: 56) contracts for foreign exchange purchases and 
70 (2013: 99) contracts for fuel purchases which have been designated as cash flow hedges. For these hedges 
the changes in the fair value of the financial instrument were compared to market movement in the underlying 
hedged item and were found to be an effective offset. As a result a decrease in the fair value of these financial 
derivative instruments of £10.4m (2013: increase £0.9m) was taken to equity through the hedging reserve.
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds in order to finance the purchase  
of aircraft and engines at both fixed and floating interest rates. The risk is managed by the Group maintaining  
an appropriate mix that varies from time-to-time between fixed and floating rate borrowings based on current 
year conditions and debt levels.
The Group’s exposure to interest rates in financial assets and financial liabilities is detailed in the liquidity risk 
management section of this note.
It is estimated that a general increase/decrease in interest rates would (worsen)/improve the Group’s result 
before tax and (decrease)/increase its equity by approximately:
2014 2013
Percentage increase 1% 1%
Impact on profit/(loss) before tax and equity (£m) (1.0) (1.2)
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 128 Credit risk management
Disclosures in respect of credit risk management for trade and other receivables are provided in note 19.
The Group is exposed to credit risk arising from cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade  
and other receivables. The risk of loss of value due to a counterparty default is minimised by entering into 
transactions with counterparties that have a minimum credit rating of A (or equivalent) as awarded by Moody’s, 
Fitch or Standard and Poor’s. In addition, counterparties with a credit rating of B or above can be used provided 
the exposure to that institution does not exceed £5.0m.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is all financial assets plus any financial guarantees.
 
Commodity price risk management
The Group purchases fuel on the open market from recognised fuel suppliers in order to operate its fleet  
of aircraft and this constitutes a substantial portion of the Group’s activities (approximately 20.0% and 19.9%  
of Flybe UK segment costs in the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2013 respectively). The Group engages in fuel 
price hedging and foreign exchange transactions from time-to-time to meet its policy of entering into forward 
fuel price exchange contracts and other related financial instruments to cover a significant percentage  
of its anticipated requirements for fuel over a 12 month period.
Aviation fuel is a significant variable cost which has had a material impact on the Group’s results during the 
period under review. A variety of external factors, such as changes in supply and demand for oil and oil-related 
products and the increasing role of speculators and funds in the futures markets, have played their part in making 
aviation fuel prices highly volatile. It is fuel price volatility which is the main driver of variances in the Group’s 
overall fuel costs.
The Group operates a policy during normal trading conditions of managing this volatility by entering into 
derivative contracts representing a portion of its aviation fuel requirements up to 24 months forward.
The actual amount covered by such contracts, amounted to 71.7% of the following year’s budgeted fuel 
consumption as at 31 March 2014 (2013: 63.2%). The amount of fuel actually consumed was 6.1% less than 
anticipated for the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: 4.6% less than anticipated).
The Group is required to offset its carbon footprint by purchasing carbon allowances for submission to the EU  
on an annual basis. The amount of allowances required to be submitted is based upon the fuel burned on all 
flights departing and arriving into the EU. The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to fluctuating carbon prices 
by entering into swap derivative contracts or by purchasing the permits as required in order to remain compliant 
with EU regulations.
The actual number of emissions credits purchased for calendar year 2013 amounted to 555.9 tonnes, including 
free allowances of 259.8 tonnes, at an average cost of €4.00.
Carbon emissions requirements for calendar year 2014 currently are expected to amount to 494.8 tonnes, 
including free allowances of 259.8 tonnes. So far the Group has purchased 99% of its requirement for 2014  
at an average cost of €5.52.
The following table details the fair values of forward fuel price contracts outstanding at each balance sheet date:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Fair value of contracts to buy fuel expiring
In less than 3 months 0.1 (0.6)
Between 3 and 6 months – (0.2)
Between 6 and 12 months (0.2) (0.1)
(0.1) (0.9)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
36. Financial instruments continued
Commodity price risk management continued
The highs and lows recorded in each period for jet fuel prices were as follows:
2014 2013
Price 
per tonne
US$ Date
Price 
per tonne
US$ Date
High 1,047
29 Aug
 2013 1,116
3 Apr 
2012
Low 883
01 May
 2013 862
25 Jun
 2012
The Group uses fuel derivatives to mitigate those exposures. It is estimated that an increase in the market  
price of aviation fuel would increase/(decrease) both the Group’s profit/(loss) before tax and decrease its equity  
by approximately:
2014 2013
Percentage increase in cost of fuel 10% 10%
Impact on profit/(loss) before tax and equity (£m) (4.8) (3.3)
 
37. Related parties
At 31 March 2013, the Group was 48.1% (unchanged from 2012) owned by Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited, 
incorporated in Jersey. Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited sold all its shares on 12 November 2013.
 
Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties which are not members of the Group:
Sales of services
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Preston Travel (CI) Limited
1
1.2 1.1
Flybe Finland Oy 4.0 5.5
1
 Period until 12 November 2013 when Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited ceased to be a related party.
Amounts owed by related parties
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Preston Travel (CI) Limited
1
0.3 0.4
Flybe Finland Oy 0.6 0.5
1
 As at 12 November 2013 when Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited ceased to be a related party.
 
The Group provided services to Preston Travel (CI) Limited which, together with Rosedale Aviation Holdings 
Limited, is a subsidiary of Rosedale (J.W.) Investments Limited. 
The Group also provided services to its 60.0% owned operation, Flybe Finland. At 31 March 2014, £2.7m 
(2013: £6.3m) was owed in respect of revenue collected on behalf of Flybe Finland.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 130 See note 31 for details of the arrangements supporting Flybe Finland Oy’s overdraft via a guarantee provided by 
the Group.
Purchases of services
2014
1
 
£m
2013 
£m
Edenfield Investments Limited 0.2 0.4
Downham Properties Limited 0.2 0.4
1
 Period until 12 November 2013 when Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited ceased to be a related party.
No amounts were owed to related parties at 12 November 2013 (when Edenfield Investments Limited and 
Downham Properties Limited ceased to be related parties) or at 31 March 2013.
The transactions with Edenfield Investments Limited and Downham Properties Limited are disclosed although 
there is no holding or subsidiary company relationship between these two companies and Rosedale Aviation 
Holdings Limited. These two companies are owned and controlled by the EJ Walker 1964 settlement, established 
by the former wife of the late Mr Jack Walker; this trust is separate for tax purposes from the Jack Walker 
Settlement which controls Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited. The Group also purchased property services  
from Edenfield Investments Limited and from Downham Properties Limited.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control approximately 0.4% of the voting shares of the 
Company (2013: 6.9%).
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below. 
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and form part of these audited financial statements.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Key management emoluments 1.8 1.9
Company contributions to personal pension schemes 0.2 0.2
Exit payments 0.7 –
2.7 2.1
Exit payments were made to former Directors as described further in Directors’ remuneration on page 79  
and include £0.1m of company contributions to personal pension schemes. A further £0.4m is due to be paid 
in 2014/15. 
A subsidiary of the Group has the following outstanding loans due from Directors and former Directors, made 
prior to their appointment as Directors, to enable them to acquire a beneficial interest in shares in Flybe Group 
plc (Mike Rutter repaid his loan on 27 March 2014):
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Mike Rutter – 63
Andrew Knuckey 20 20
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Continued
37. Related parties continued
Transactions with key management personnel continued
In addition, the following Directors and former Directors have received loans from the Group’s then immediate 
parent company, Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited, to enable them to acquire an interest in shares in Flybe 
Group plc:
12 November
 2013
1
 
£000
31 March 
2013 
£000
Andrew Knuckey 134 134
Andrew Strong
2
36 36
David Longbottom 9 9
Charlie Scott 9 9
Alan Smith 9 9
Peter Smith
2
9 9
1
 The date at which Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited ceased to be a related party.
2
 Former Directors.
The loans made by the Group and Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited total £289,000 at 12 November 2013 
(31 March 2013: £289,000). These loans bear no interest and are repayable out of the proceeds receivable by 
each Director from a subsequent sale of his respective ordinary shares and at the discretion of Rosedale Aviation 
Holdings Limited.
There are no other transactions or balances with key management.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 132 Company balance sheet 
At 31 March 2014
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 39 63.6 33.2
Current assets
Other receivables 40 189.3 14.9
Total assets 252.9 48.1
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 41 (0.5) –
Non-current assets
Liability for share-based payments 34 (0.9) –
Total liabilities (1.4) –
Net assets 251.5 48.1
Equity attributable to owners of the company
Share capital 42 2.2 0.7
Share premium account 42 209.2 60.6
Merger reserve 6.7 6.7
Capital redemption reserve 22.5 22.5
Retained earnings 10.9 (42.4)
Total equity 251.5 48.1
The financial statements of Flybe Group plc, registered number 1373432, were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 10 June 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Saad Hammad Andrew Knuckey
Director Director
 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 133 Company statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 March 2014
Company cash flow statement
Year ended 31 March 2014
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital
 redemption
 reserves 
£m
Retained
 earnings/
(deficit) 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 April 2012 0.7 60.6 6.7 22.5 0.3 90.8
Loss for the year – – – – (43.3) (43.3)
Equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – 0.6 0.6
Balance at 31 March 2013 0.7 60.6 6.7 22.5 (42.4) 48.1
Profit for the year – – – – 52.7 52.7
Share capital issued 1.5 154.2 – – – 155.7
Share issue expenses – (5.6) – – – (5.6)
Equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – 0.6 0.6
Balance at 31 March 2014 2.2 209.2 6.7 22.5 10.9 251.5
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Operating profit – –
Dividends received from subsidiaries 19.0 –
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries (9.6) –
Reversal of provision for doubtful debts on inter-company balances 43.3 –
Credit to equity for share-based payments 0.6 0.6
Increase in receivables (214.4) (0.6)
Increase in payables 0.5 –
Increase in employee benefits 0.9 –
Net cash flows from operating activities (159.7) –
Cash flows from investing activities
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 9.6 –
Net cash flows from investing activities 9.6 –
Financing activities
New equity raised 150.1 –
Net cash raised from financing activities 150.1 –
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning and end of year – –
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 134 Notes to the Company financial statements
38. Significant accounting policies
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.  
As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. The principal accounting policies  
are the same as those set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements except as noted below.
In accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement  
to present its own income statement. The Company’s profit for the year was £52.7m (2013: loss of £43.3m).
39. Subsidiaries and related companies 
£m
Cost of investment
At 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 33.2
Capitalisation of inter-company balances into investments 40.0
At 31 March 2014 73.2
Provision for impairment
At 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 –
Impairment (9.6)
At 31 March 2014 (9.6)
Net book value
At 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 33.2
At 31 March 2014 63.6
The inter-company balances with Flybe Limited and Westcountry Aircraft Servicing Limited have been capitalised 
by way of loan releases to the value of £40.0m and £11,000 respectively. The investment in British Regional  
Air Lines Group Limited has been written down by £9.6m.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 135 Details of the Group’s subsidiaries and related companies at 31 March 2014 are as follows:
Place of incorporation
and operation
Proportion of
 ownership
 interest
%
Proportion of
 voting power 
held
%
Flybe Limited Great Britain 100 100
British European Limited
1
Great Britain 100 100
Irish European Limited
1
Great Britain 100 100
British European.com Limited
1
 Great Britain 100 100
Walker Aviation Leasing (UK) Limited Great Britain 100 100
British Regional Air Lines Group Limited Great Britain 100 100
British Regional Airlines Limited
1
Great Britain 100 100
Flybe Leasing Limited
1
Great Britain 100 100
Flybe (IoM) Limited
1
Isle of Man 100 100
Flybe Holdings Limited Great Britain 100 100
British European Airlines Limited
1
Great Britain 100 100
Flybe Ireland Limited
1
Ireland 100 100
Guide Leasing Limited Great Britain 100 100
Flybe Ireland Limited
1
 Great Britain 100 100
JEA Engineering (UK) Limited Great Britain 100 100
Westcountry Aircraft Servicing Limited Great Britain 100 100
Deutsche European Limited Great Britain 100 100
BEA.com Limited Great Britain 100 100
British European Air Limited Great Britain 100 100
Flybe.com Limited Great Britain 100 100
Jersey European Airways (UK) Limited Great Britain 100 100
Walker Aviation Limited Great Britain 100 100
Jersey European Airways Limited Jersey 100 100
Flybe Nordic AB
1
Sweden 60 60
Flybe Finland Holdings Oy
1
Finland 60 60
Flybe Finland Oy
1
Finland 60 60
1
 Indirectly held by Flybe Group plc.
Fastnet Aviation 1 Limited, a company registered in Ireland, was established during the previous financial  
year as part of the process of obtaining financing for the pre-delivery deposits for the aircraft ordered from 
Embraer. It is 100% owned by an independent corporate trustee that is unrelated to either the Group or the  
financing company.
40. Other receivables
Amounts due from Group undertakings
Amounts due from Group undertakings after provision for doubtful debts are £189.3m (2013: £14.9m).  
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The allowance for doubtful debts arises from inter-company balances that are not viewed as recoverable.  
A provision for doubtful debts for inter-company balances of £43.3m was released during the year  
to 31 March 2014 (2013: provision for doubtful debts of £43.3m). All receivables that are not provided  
are not yet due at both 31 March 2014 and 2013.
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 136 41. Trade and other payables
Accruals
Accruals of £0.5m (2013: nil) comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.  
The carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
42. Share capital and share premium account
This is disclosed in notes 28 and 29 in the consolidated financial statements.
43. Related parties
The Company has provided cross-guarantee arrangements to its operating subsidiaries in the following areas:
> > suppliers of fuel and other services to the principal operating company
> > operating lease and loan repayments for aircraft used in the business
> > derivative instruments used to secure fuel and foreign exchange purchases
Based on expectations at the end of the reporting period, the Company considers that it is more likely  
than not that no amount will be payable under these arrangements. 
The maximum amount that the Company could be forced to settle under the above arrangements is £524.4m 
(2013: £614.6m).
 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 137 Five-year summary
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Financial measures
Total revenue under management 570.5 595.5 678.8 781.5 868.4
Less: Joint venture revenue – – (63.5) (167.2) (247.9)
Group revenue 570.5 595.5 615.3 614.3 620.5
EBITDAR
1
108.1 87.2 85.8 55.5 98.7
Operating profit/(loss)
2
27.6 (0.9) (4.9) (34.6) 0.8
Profit/(loss) before tax
2
24.6 (4.3) (6.8) (41.1) 8.1
Earnings/(loss) per share (basic) 42.4p 6.4p (8.5)p (56.0)p 9.6p
Aircraft (at net book value) 113.5 110.9 136.9 140.4 147.0
Net (debt)/funds (21.4) 21.9 (29.7) (66.3) 116.9
Operating cash flow before restructuring 14.9 18.1 3.0 (1.6) 7.3
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Operating measures
3
Average number of operating aircraft 67.5 68.3 61.3 59.9 56.6
Scheduled sectors flown 135,100 138,200 137,400 132,600 130,200
Scheduled seats flown 11,304,400 11,620,600 11,610,400 11,298,200 11,144,400
Scheduled sold passengers 7,178,000 7,166,200 7,325,200 7,245,100 7,742,100
Passenger yield £72.55 £76.15 £77.21 £76.16 £71.55
Scheduled load factor 63.5% 61.7% 63.1% 64.1% 69.5%
1
  EBITDAR redefined to be profit/(loss) before tax after adding back net finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation  
and aircraft rental costs.
2
  2012/13 and 2011/12 have been restated for changes to IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’. The financial periods prior  
to 2011/12 have not been restated.
3
  Operating measures are stated for Flybe UK, and so do not include the impact of the joint venture, Flybe Finland.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 138 Glossary
Air Operator’s Certificate (‘AOC’) 
an air operator’s certificate issued by the national regulator – 
the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK and the Transport 
Safety Agency, Trafi, in Finland
Air Passenger Duty (‘APD’) 
an excise duty which is charged by the UK and other 
governments on the carriage of passengers flying from  
an airport within that government’s territory
BTECs 
vocational awards formerly issued by the Business and 
Technology Education Council and now issued by Edexcel
Civil Aviation Authority (‘CAA’) 
the civil aviation regulatory authority of the UK, Channel 
Islands and the Isle of Man
codeshare 
an arrangement whereby multiple airlines sell seats on the 
same flights and multiple flight designators and flight 
numbers are used for the same flight
contract flying 
a leasing agreement whereby an aircraft (together with  
its operating crew), maintenance, support and insurance  
are provided from one party to another, otherwise known  
as an ACMI agreement
domestic 
passengers from one UK airport (including the Channel 
Islands and the Isle of Man) travelling to another UK airport 
(including the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man)
eco-label rating 
a rating, introduced by Flybe, concerning the measurement  
of aircraft performance in respect of noise and greenhouse 
gas emissions, during operation
effective exchange rate 
the cost of currency for a period implicit through the 
weighted average cost of (i) currency acquired through 
forward contracts and (ii) currency bought in the spot 
markets
EASA 
European Aviation Safety Agency
ETS 
Emissions Trading Scheme
Flybe Finland 
Flybe Finland Oy (formerly Finnish Commuter Airlines Oy)  
of which 60% is owned by Flybe and 40% by Finnair Oyj
Flybe Nordic AB 
joint venture between Flybe and Finnair Oyj incorporating 
Flybe Finland Oy
Fuel burn per seat 
jet kerosene used, divided by number of seats flown
GHG 
greenhouse gas
GWP 
global warming potential
IATA 
International Air Transport Association
IPO 
the admission, through an Initial Public Offering, of the 
Company’s shares to the Official List of the London Stock 
Exchange on 15 December 2010
load factor 
the number of seats sold divided by seat capacity  
(and ‘flown’ load factor, the number of seats flown divided  
by seat capacity) 
MRO 
maintenance, repair and overhaul
passenger 
a person with an issued ticket where the ticket has charged  
a fare and/or a passenger surcharge and tax (if applicable)
passenger yield 
total passenger revenue per passenger (after the deduction 
of government taxes and levies) 
passenger revenue per seat 
passenger revenue generated divided by seat capacity
purchase rights 
the right to purchase additional aircraft under the same  
terms and conditions as for firm and option aircraft.  
Such rights to be exercised within a finite time
regional aircraft 
turboprop aircraft and regional jets of 120 seats or less
regional airline 
an airline that flies predominantly regional aircraft
regional branded airline 
a regional airline flying aircraft under its own name and 
colours
regional UK 
an airport or destination in the UK (including the Channel 
Islands and the Isle of Man) but excluding London
Rosedale 
Rosedale Aviation Holdings Limited
route 
a scheduled service flown by an airline other than any 
franchise route
scheduled sectors flown 
the total number of aircraft flights per annum, excluding 
positioning, charter and training flights
seat capacity 
the number of seats per aircraft multiplied by the number  
of scheduled sectors flown
sector 
a flight between an originating airport and a destination 
airport, typically with no intervening stops
slot 
an authorisation to arrive at or depart from a stand at  
a particular airport at a specific time on a particular day
summer season 
the last Sunday in March until the last Saturday in October  
in any particular year
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 139 Glossary
Continued
tCO
2
e 
the number of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and is the 
universal unit of measurement to indicate the global warming 
potential (‘GWP’) of each of the six specified greenhouse 
gases, expressed in terms of the GWP of one unit of CO
2
‘TRAFI’ 
the civil aviation regulatory authority of Finland
UK domestic routes 
routes where both the departure and destination airports  
are within the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands or the  
Isle of Man 
under management 
figures presented for revenue, passengers and seats flown 
‘under management’ include both group and joint venture 
activity, but exclude contract flying
white label 
flying operated by Flybe on behalf of another airline, on 
which Flybe takes cost and operational risk, but the revenue 
risk remains with the airline for whom Flybe is operating
winter season 
the last Sunday in October to the last Saturday in March  
in any particular year
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 140  456MPH
108MPH
70MPH
transfor Ming
flybe
f lybe group plc
Annual Report 2014
f lybe group plc Annual Report 2014
6601_Flybe_AR_2014_Cover2.indd   2-4 11/06/2014   15:17
